ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, we shall begin the sitting. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday's topical and urgent debate on Friday 22 January 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 300/16-1-2021, a topical question by Mr. Athens, New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: 'Bekaterou case: measures by the Ministry to eliminate such phenomena'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 313/18-1-2021 of SYRIZA's Deputy Magnesia - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'Do not continue the rail isolation of Magnesia'. 3. The 303/18-1-2021 topical question by the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Increasing the repayable advance and long-term settlements of debts need the market to stand up". 4. The question by No. 318/18-1-2021 was raised by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Assignation of a Collective Labour Convention for Workers at the National Observatory of the National Observatory of the National People's Observatory - Working Conventions in the State Theatres". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 322/18-1-2021 of the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The mystical strategy of the banks strangles Greek businesses." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 323/18-1-2021 of the Member of the Heracleon Parliament of the Change Movement Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'An unjustified suffering and burden for farmers by the Ministry of Finance and the Independent Authority of Public Revenue (PUB) which they consider to be incorrect as a subsidy, compensation for COVID -19 and investment aid'. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 2211/385/30-11-20 question and application for the submission of documents by the Member of Parliament, Mr Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'Why did the Department of Nursing of the University of Peloponnese rejected the proposal for cooperation of the Foundation 'Stavros Niarchos'?' 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 2742/16-12-20, by MP Halkidiki of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Ladies and gentlemen, in a document, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the topical questions to be discussed are as follows: Question No 307/18-1-2021 will be answered by the Minister of the Interior, Mr Mavroudi Voridis. Questions Nos 296/15-1-2021 and 314/18-1-2021 will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Spyridon-Panagiotis (Spilio) Lebanon. Questions Nos 319/18-1-2021 and 320/18-1-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Apostolos Vesiropoulos. Question No 316/18-1-2021 will be answered by the Secretary of State for Culture and Sport, Mr Nikolaos Drotromanolakis. I would like to remind you that your time is two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to answer the Minister. We begin with the debate on the first under number 296/15-1-2021 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Evia SYRIZA - Evangelos Apostolos, Evangelos Apostle to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Preparation for the issues of the common agricultural policy of the new programming period’. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u3	Many of the challenges you are facing, Mr Minister, taking over the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. I hope you're useful to the space. Last year, this area had several impacts on its income, both because of the coronary pandemic and natural disasters, which in many areas, particularly in Evia, have evolved into a tragedy. For the consequences of the pandemic there was no, I would say, substantial support. According to your earlier statements you have so far disbursed 270 million euros, when the needs were and are multiple, leaving the majority of rural people concerned with agriculture out of aid. I am referring specifically to two categories, which concern your country, Mr Minister, the sheep and goat farmers and the olive growers. It's been blocked over 50%. Of course, my question concerns issues relating to the resources of the next CAP and the Recovery Fund. Your obligations within 2021 are very important, require high coordination of actions and early decision-making on issues relating, firstly, to the preparation and consultation of the new CFP National Strategic Plan, which should be completed and submitted to the European Commission by the end of the year. Secondly, they relate to the finalisation of the framework for the granting of direct payments, the two years 2021-2022, the Multiannual Financial Support Framework and the Recovery Fund and, thirdly, the programming, allocation and commitment of additional Community resources allocated to our country for the transitional period 2021-2022. Your predecessor, Mr. Voridis, is next to you. To overcome the criticism we have made about this process, in particular the process of drawing up the national strategic plan, we have been presented with a SWOT analysis in the committee, without any real reference being made to the arguments put forward by the new proposal, the political proposal, the common agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u5	I shall conclude, Madam President. In conclusion, Mr Minister, what preparation and coordination is being carried out by the Ministry of Rural Development at this time to meet these obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Madam President. It is a great honour for me to be in this Chamber as Minister for Rural Development and Food and, my dear fellow Member, thank you for the welcome in this new capacity and your wishes. I want, because it is the first time I have come with this role in this House, to say that I am committed, both myself and the Undersecretary, to being present constantly and to respond to parliamentary scrutiny, to give answers to all Members of Parliament on all issues relating to our subject, thereby honoring one of the main pillars of our Parliamentary Republic. In this context, because this is the first time that we have been discussing these issues within Parliament, I would like to emphasise again that in my opinion the field of rural development is a complex one. We are not given the opportunity, and there is no need for barren party controversy and little party interests, I do not think we will enter among us. In this context, I would also ask you to have a constructive dialogue with proposals. I have already taken the initiative and contacted all opposition parties, and with SYRIZA, and this afternoon Mr Arachovitis will be coming to the Ministry to make the first meeting. At the same time, since next week, I would like to have meetings with all the former ministers. So, Mr. Apostle, we'll talk privately, and I think our course can be parallel and find what unites us, leaving on the side of what some people want to put between us to separate us. You referred to the past. You spoke of the disasters in Evia. I think it was one of the moments when the state showed a direct, unprecedented direct response. Indeed, 270 million have already been disbursed, which I think is a very large amount in a very short time. As far as Kalamon olives are concerned, you know that 70 euros came out for those who were declared and we have a topic - we asked Mr Voridis for it in the past, now I handle it - to see how these Kalamon olives that were not declared as such will be included. Today, however, it was a different matter. In practical terms, you have asked us to talk about the Recovery Fund, the CAP and the progress of work. But I did not see you mention your position - and I think you should do so - the success of both the Prime Minister and the President-in-Office, present today in another capacity, former Minister of State, Mr Voridis, for the great success of bringing about EUR 70 billion to the total, namely 19.3 billion for the new CAP, which are very useful for this work we want to do and is an opportunity for the rural economy, which if it had not come and if it was not that success, which is a national success, and you must also share it, we would not have had this debate today. As you can see - and you know - we as a government are constantly on the table, and so I took the baton from where Mr Vorides left it. We are, from the very first time I went to constant meetings and cooperation to deal with all three fronts, namely the establishment of the Recovery Fund, the CAP and this two-year period, where we have many programmes there to support rural production. A few weeks ago - you know - the Deputy Minister of State, Mr. Skrekas, came here with the Agricultural University and the Counsellor, who is present at the Ministry after a competition, Mr. Lianos, and presented the first part of the SWOT analysis on the issue that you are asking me. I imagine you were there and watched this very useful tool we have. I will add to this that the World Bank has been hired as an independent evaluator to assist us in our work. The services of the Ministry, the public officials, who are doing a great deal of work, are in contact with both the advisers and with the political leadership, so that this framework can be established, within the deadlines imposed by the European policy and regulatory framework, so that we can bring together parts of the rural economy that we need, incorporate our policy into Europe's 'green' policy and form the very framework to continue to develop our exports, as the previous leadership has achieved for a year and a half, and to shape the conditions so that the Greek producer can finally be a businessman, trade his products. In this context, I think we are very well placed at the moment, both with regard to our obligations and with regard to the plan we have set ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Colleagues, please, and I am not saying just about you, I say that, and I say that, for the Ministers of State or Government, we are in our time, because it is in legislative work, there are enough questions and we have no room for delay. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u9	I will try, Madam President. Minister, you are committed. You know that, we will monitor you, we will make proposals, as you already know, and your predecessor, on your political route to the Ministry of Rural Development. You have found that there are proposals and that some things have been put in too serious for the space on a resolution course. But let us judge you. Criticism is a major component of our process. The money you have given to tackle the pandemic in the area - I repeat - does not cover these farmers and those who are involved in agriculture and are residents of mountainous and remote regions. I don't want to get into another process now. There can be no compensation for fines imposed because of the mismanagement that has been done before and this money, which is about EUR 450 million, cannot have pushed you to be given as early as possible, earlier, in the rural area, to be able to deal with the situation. With regard in particular to the part on which I ask you, we have made a great effort at the negotiating levels of the next common agricultural policy, both in terms of the budget and in terms of the great problem of external convergence. In fact, we had created the necessary alliances very early, which helped us in this process. So I will say, in fact, that your predecessor has gone along with what we had started on these issues. From there on, I am referring to the issue of our proposal on the strategic plan, the delay that exists, because we did not discuss any presentation, but we did not discuss detailed policies. There are many problems, Mr Minister, such as, for example, the big issue, which exists with the management plans of pastures. You have announced that you have made some agreements with the regions. You are too late, and it is a pity, because we will also have a huge problem with the choices, especially in the case of pastures, but at the same time we will not be able to deal with the problem of external convergence if we sum up all these areas resulting from the drafting of the management plans for pastures without having been completed. There is a big issue, which has to be dealt with differently in particular as regards the environmental impacts, which exist and which have been tabled and voted on as a proposal to the detriment of small farmers. Because the backbone of Greek agriculture is small farmers, who have revenues from aid from EUR 1,000 to 1,200. They're the ones you had to take them out. I now tell you two - three cases which are characteristic. I repeat, hurry again, because if there were no transitional period of two years, where would we be today? Everything would be at risk of being blown up in the air, but thanks to the transition period you have the opportunity to complete this process as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. You, too, realise that you are referring to things quite different from what you have tabled in your question. It is, however, a pleasure to respond to what you have said and to leave the big issue of the Recovery Fund and the CFP to discuss it at some other opportunity. I told you before and you know that this is the position of our government. We accept the good criticism and the specific proposals. What you said a moment ago obviously did not contain any specific proposals. I hope that, when we meet next time, you will come and tell us things that we have not thought about, so that we can use them. You are talking about delays and you are talking about this two-year programme, when you know very well that it is well known to everyone that there would be a rule from the European Commission that new money has come out of the old terms and that we are struggling with it, we have no problem there. You also forgot to say that for four years you have ruled and in one piece you were head of the Ministry of Rural Development yourself you delayed everything. Amongst these, you have also delayed the issues of the regulatory plans in the past, which you referred to a moment ago, but which our government has been doing at a very good pace. They have already been signed with two regions, if I am not mistaken, the agreements. We happen to catch up with you, because tomorrow afternoon we have a meeting with the Vice-Presidents precisely for this job. So, we're going through this very well, don't worry. Then it is the work that has been done in connection with consultation. Because that is what you say, there was no consultation following this presentation of the SWOT analysis in Parliament. You are also wrong here, because you know very well that the consultation has started for a long time. For your information, I would like to tell you that ten days have already been held in Verea, Kozani, Lamia, Serres, Kavala, Alexandroupolis, Thessaloniki, which have already brought the results that we include in our design. We've scheduled some conferences with teleconferencing now, because you realize we can't go, have a natural presence in towns. As soon as the health committee and the Civil Protection Committee allow us, we will do so. We want to be here everywhere. In this context, with the partners we have said before, which I do not think there is any question of whether or not they are capable of helping us, we will have what we are asking for, that is, an absolutely creative and proper strategic plan and we will submit it by December 2021, which is our contractual obligation. I mean, though, because it is useful for you to get into our job speed that we have set some goals. I said before our general objectives for our sector. I would like to say that one of them, which I have not mentioned, and I hope that there will be discussions about it in the future, is that of our attempt to make a digital transformation into our rural economy. Yesterday - and it would be good to report as a party - they signed the agreement between the organization and the 'Information Society' to ELGA. There's a revolution going on. Apart from housed ELGA's finances, there is a digital revolution. She is well aware that she will also be useful to the people who work in ELGA, but especially to Greek producers. So on this path we want you, beside us, and not with sterile criticism of yesterday's toward us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the first 314/18-1-2021 topical question of the SYRIZA MP Pella - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jackis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Manufacture of the Almopea (Kales) dam". You've got two minutes, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u13	Minister, congratulations on your Ministership and good success in your work. The management and exploitation of the waters of the Almopio River by building a dam and building a water reservoir in the right place, five kilometres north of the villages of Good and Prophet Elias in Pella, before these waters end up in the plain, is a great challenge and a work of breath for Pella, Minister, because the flooding armour of the area, as well as the rational management of the water, is an urgent need not only from an environmental point of view, but for the whole process of agricultural production. Let me tell you that this is a project that comes from the past. In 1990 the PPC premeditated the construction of a hydroelectric dam. In 1995 he presented himself to the then ministries of Agriculture, Economics, Economics and Ministry of Finance, as he was then, and then the gulgotha begins. In 2011, the study on the construction of this Almopion dam was launched in May 2014, the first - let me say it in this sense - required studies for the project's pre-study, agricultural study, geotechnics, geological study. In 2016 on SYRIZA, he joined the next funding programme of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme and in April 2018 his environmental conditions were adopted. And while we consider that its environmental conditions will now be integrated into the final study and the tender documents will be published, we are suddenly being informed, Minister, that there is an additional need to draw up a forestry road project for a few hundred metres and that this was the goal of completion, in October 2019. Suddenly, Mr. Screkas informs us that this date of delivery of this small study is extended until autumn 2021. Minister, given the importance of this project for Pella, a basically rural area, what I would like to ask you is this. It is an important task, because it will also help enrich the water, as you can see, but also the flooding armour of the region. What I have to ask you is why the completion of these last prerequisites is delaying, such as this small forest road study on a small road, as I said, and what is the intention of your Ministry, you as a new Minister, to integrate this project into the programme for the Recovery Fund for agriculture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, my colleague. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that you must wear your mask when you speak from the seat. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your kind words. I hope to live up to your expectations. Nor have you, of course, said a good reason for the government and what it has achieved so that we can discuss today the Recovery Fund and the money available to us. Because you have made very specific reference to the historical path of this project in Pella, which we understand and consider to be really important, as well as other things that will help the Greek producers everywhere in Greece, but of course will support the environmental dimension, which we have as a cornerstone in our policy, I would like to tell you, if you do not know, that the Recovery Fund differs slightly from the other investment programmes that we have. It works in a more open way. In other words, we can have greater speed in absorption on the one hand, that is its positive, but it has a more stringent regulatory framework than the measures that are in place to integrate projects, and of course it must be differentiated from our other funds. In this respect, there are specific criteria which should be available for a project to integrate, which is the maturity of its studies, the strengthening through this long-term growth, the creation of jobs, the contribution to the green transition and, of course, added value and economic and environmental. In this context, the course you described before is not a path that we have put as an obstacle to the integration of this project. We expect these studies to be completed, which are prerequisites, and if all of this is included in the dossier and there is maturity, as has been said, in this work, we are willing, like others, to support them. There is no doubt about that. Now, if there will be the studies by the Forest Service, the geotechnics you mentioned and others I have here from our services, that - as you can see - has nothing to do with the political will to support these kinds of projects, but it has to do with whether or not the services which are not ours, such as the Forestry and of course the contractors, are right within the deadlines. The contractor has, on the basis of my information, the final date of September 15, 2021. We are, therefore, next to the citizens and producers of Pella, as in all of Greece, and we are waiting precisely for mature projects to include them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Minister. Come on, Comrade, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u17	Minister, as I said to you and you admitted yourself at the end, the only study that is missing is this small study of forest road construction for a hundred meters all and all, to which the Archaeological Service, as I am learning, has been involved, because it is my area, with a contracted archaeologist recommended by the Archaeologist of Antiquities Pellas, etc. This is a very small study. I want you to know that given the importance, as I said before, of this work, I have been following the development of all the studies required from the outset. Geographical and geology you said are studies that have been delivered and approved, Minister, since 2014. That's not the problem. There's this little road left, like I told you. And I wonder why a small road needs a horizon for another fifteen months. Fifteen have passed since it was announced and we will go almost a year by the autumn of 2021. I want you to know, as I have told you, that I have followed the whole course of the studies by actually intervening, if you want, and by assisting at the environmental licensing stage, which is the most important stage in the licensing process of a specific project and also in the integration of the studies and in ensuring the uninterrupted financing of the remaining studies of the project and their inclusion in ongoing actions of the Rural Development Programme. As I said before, there is a 15-month gap since it was announced that this small forest study must be finished. But I am going to stand by what you have told us, and I would like to believe that we are towards the end of the process of completing all these prerequisites for the construction of the project finally to begin. But the most important thing you did not tell us here - and that is why I asked this question - is to include the project for funding in the list of projects to be built up by the Recovery Fund. Given that on the basis of the agreed text and the Recovery Fund 30% of the total amount must be allocated in 2021 and 70% in 2022, I must ask you one more question. Do you think the project will be able to meet at the latest within 2022 and, if so, when is it planned to complete its construction? Look, if the Forestry does not belong to you - I do not know who the contractor has undertaken to carry out this small forest study - but for a hundred meters to lose also the 'tree' of the Recovery Fund, Minister, I think it is a very heavy blow to Pella, because you realise that this project will be referred to, if we lose the 'tree' from the Recovery Fund, in the historical bells. I do not know whether and when there will be a possibility of financing such large projects, because it is true that its budget is quite important, it exceeds 100 million for the construction of the dam, apart from the networks, as you can see. So what I want to see from you is your political will to include it in the list of projects financed by the Recovery Fund. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, my colleague. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Mrs Jackson, I told you before that the political will of us exists to incorporate all these major and substantial projects, which will also help local economies, but above all our producers to do their job. As I come from a rural prefecture with many such problems in its infrastructure, I am well aware of the anxiety of the citizens and understand yours. So in this context - and I told you before, I told you again - we have the political will to incorporate these kinds of projects. From that point on, I cannot - because you would not want me to do that - to make this difficult, that is to say, to make a decision which we cannot make at the moment if the dossier is not completed. I'm right next to you, and if you want to work together, so we can complete this file. As you quite rightly said, the Forest Service is not in our responsibilities. To do what you will tell us in this regard and in relation to the contractors, whom you may know as representative of local society - I do not know them - and to see any other relevant and specific proposals you have. I told you at the beginning of my position that I am at your disposal to work together. From there on, I cannot give you any specific commitment to joining the project. It would be inconsistent and inappropriate if I did so, so I guess you wouldn't ask me to do that. So I am waiting for you with specific ideas to claim together and with the people of Pella, which is very important to us, the integration of this work under the right conditions, but which is laid down in the regulatory framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too, Minister. We now go to the fourth with number 307/18-1-2021, a top-stage question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Standardisation of precariousness for appointed municipal officials by the AUP 3K/2018." The question will be answered by the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mavroudis Voridis. Mr. Comrade, you only have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, it is an issue that we have discussed in this plenary over and over again, but I hope that your commitment to tasks can give a solution to this particular issue, which is a matter of breach of common sense. We have a call on 3K/2018. A lot of people were hired to clean up - over five thousand - and rewarding services. After a holiday, one and a half years later, after these people were hired, the terms changed. This seven years ago, which forbids any mobility, forbids anything that the Civil Service Code provides for permanent civil servants. To be specific: if the objective of such a measure was to protect municipalities from losing their workers, that is not the case, because we know very well that mobility cannot be done if it has left over 65% of the workers. It can't be done for the unacceptable municipalities. There are all the protection valves. Beyond this absurd and unconstitutional, it seems to be at least your measure, we see that the tables are constantly changing. There are other workers in the provisional tables. They are in the temporary tables in one municipality, they work for two years and in the finals they go to another municipality and the reformed in another municipality. Take out a circular that asks for the workers to be evaluated before they are permanent. It's been two years. They should be permanentized. The Civil Service Code stipulates that within two years, they must be permanently and evaluated. You two and a half years later - you have not completed this assessment, and while it is the responsibility of the state, people are left unreserved and have not been in a trial phase. These are all the absurds that we invite you to solve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u22	Me, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Madam President. I won't need them. Mr President, I assume that the meaning of your question is linked to the coming of a new Minister to the Ministry of the Interior, otherwise I cannot explain it, because you have asked exactly the same question and you have answered exactly a specific question, namely the seven-year question, that is, the terms of Article 74 in this case, by Mr Livano. So I don't know if you're assuming there's a government change. The answer is that there is no governmental change. There is a change in the Minister's face, but as I have repeatedly said, there is a continuation of government policy. So my answer to your first question - I will come back to my dentistry to reply to the second question of evaluation - is that I will not withdraw Rule 74 for the reasons that Mr Lebanon has explained to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Minister. You were short. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you know, it is not just that a Minister has changed in this period since September to today. You know, that may be less of a concern to society. What is happening, Minister, is that it has been two and a half years that these people are still in a trial phase, while the law provides that they should have been permanently permanentd. That's the point. How do you on your own fault - why is delaying evaluation - still holding them hostages? That's the point. So, yes, we invite you to answer. You should tell us the very simple thing. So, for you it's not illegal and it's not derogating for the AACC when a contract notice has been issued on specific terms and a year and a half later, after people have been hired, the terms change? Did these people know when they applied that they would not be able to enter mobility for seven years? Isn't that unequal treatment between civil servants? And in the end, why are you doing this? It's obviously not for the needs of the municipalities. Is it vengeance against the previous government? What exactly are you playing on the workers' backs? These are the main questions, Mr Voridis. Over here the services don't even know who's going to assess these people. The service they worked for two years when the provisional paintings were? The service in which they were found after the permanents or after the reviseds? Does that make sense to you? Does that make sense to you? But workers pay for it. We will come back again and again until these issues are resolved. There's no reason out here. It has nothing to do with the continuation of the government's work. It has to do with a rather political game that plays on the back of about five thousand workers in cleanliness. Let me also fill out the question your predecessor never answered. What about the 3K 'urban'? We have here a declaration again and again from this House that there would immediately be the recruitment of another two thousand people, the continuation of the 3K proclamation. We have the coronary and the needs for cleanliness are multiple. It's a matter of public interest more than ever. What's gonna happen? Will the new notice go ahead? Will young people hire cleanliness and reward services? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u26	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, firstly, you can disagree with a government choice. In my opinion, however, it is not appropriate for you to have an answer to your objections and arguments and for you to come back because you do not like the answer that the government gives you. Your question has been answered. Things are clear. You have been explained by Mr. Livano. The arguments have been put forward. They heard them, who were listening. You heard them first, too, where you were the lover. We will not come here every week to answer the same question you have answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u28	The problem has not been solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u29	Leave the problem. Your arguments were put out last time, I'm telling you. You have said what is now said about equality and constitutionality. You have said so and you have answered this question. You don't like answers. That's your right. We will not, however, come to answer the same question again. That is the one, which is clear. If there is any added value here in the question, it is the question of evaluation. On the question of evaluation, it is simple. The provisions applicable to all will be applied. As they are all assessed, they will be evaluated at the same time at the same time. Is this connected to their permanentity? Listen here. Is this connected? Yeah. But that is not a provision, which has emerged suddenly. It is a provision of 2007, which says that officials are automatically permanently permanently completed with the completion of a two-year trial service, with the exception of officials who have been subject to disciplinary action or have been subject to disciplinary action or a finding on a juror administrative review, as well as those whose essential qualifications are classified in the evaluation report with a degree less than five. What does the provision say here on simple interpretation? They don't need any circulars or anything. That we need to make an evaluation report, to see if it's over five or under five. Therefore, with the deadlines laid down in L.4369/2016, they will be assessed there. There is a prerequisite for specific things. There is no special treatment for these officials, nor is there any specific question of dealing with them. Finally, we know Parliament and you know that parliamentary control is a specific procedure, which has a strictness, which means what? You're asking me something, and I'm answering what you're asking me. We won't open the debate. If you in the meantime think that you wanted to ask other questions, I am sorry, but you will ask a new question to discuss your other questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Minister. The third with number 316/18-1-2021 will now be discussed.The first question of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr. Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The problems faced by students of artistic schools". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Nikolaos Drotronmanolakis. Mr. Delia, you have two minutes. Please, hold the time because we won't make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. After wishing you, Minister, good power, to continue by saying that, as you know, students and students of artistic schools, in particular the dramatic schools of the National Theatre, the State Theatre of Northern Greece, the State School of Orchestra Art - here near Homer - as well as the students of all private dramatic schools, dance and cinema schools, all of them are fighting. They are struggling, but they are struggling - after all, these two words have a common etymological root - and they are mobilized because they are faced with a number of problems. What is the main cause of these students’ problems? The closure of all these schools because of the pandemic and the realization of their courses through teletext. And it is not only that this teletext education presents a lot of disparity from school to school, in the absence of a single analytic curriculum. It is also the fact that a large part of the teaching that would be carried out by living has been completely omitted from this telephony, and there are those lessons, as you know, which by their very nature are entirely practical and presuppose living human contact. Of course, I am talking about the lessons of dancing, movement, hypocritical, directing, voice, speech, which are either not carried out or carried out with enormous shortcomings, so that students are trained properly and certainly in an inappropriate manner. Furthermore, there has been no care so far for a restructuring of the matter of these schools, in order to cover the major gaps arising from the closure of these schools in the first wave of the pandemic, so that this year's major teaching gaps can also be added. So we ask you - and here I conclude, Madam President - what you will do to ensure that the educational gaps created in the pandemic are uniformly covered and that means solving the problem of the lack of the single curriculum for the artistic objects of all these schools. We are asking you what you will do to plan the replacements of these courses and the promotional and diplomatic examinations, to support students so that they do not be excluded from their studies because of their tuition fees and, at last, to give everyone a chance at last to go through reduced tickets, of course, along with other economic support measures, and to ensure that - and perhaps this is the most important - all measures of hygiene, cleaning, disinfection, in any case, that all those conditions are met to securely open up artistic schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Delis, both for your wishes and for this question, because it really gives us an opportunity to discuss a very important subject, that of artistic education, which unfortunately does not always receive due attention and importance. It is a fact - and we know it - that addressing structural issues facing artistic education over time has not been done with long-term and comprehensive planning. There have at times been fragmentary solutions which have sometimes created more problems than those which have been called upon to solve. This has therefore created a specific framework. But for us, artistic education is a pillar of culture, because it is essentially the nursery of artistic potential and artistic creation in our country. So from the first moment - and now I'm going a little bit ahead of pandemic - the reform of the framework, the upgrading of study and the institutional shield of artistic education was and they remain for the Ministry of Culture and Sport a key priority and an integral part of our strategy. We are convinced - and we know this - that Greece can become a pole of international scope in artistic education, but it is only enough to tackle some of the strangles in practice. Thus, we had started long before the pandemic and a circle of discussions not only with the state education structures you mentioned, but also with representatives of the entire sector, teachers, owners, natural students, graduates, who are facing well-known issues, but also with artists and objective, has always been and remains an open dialogue to record all sides, all comments and all the proposals. In the meantime, the issue of pandemic has arisen, which - as you have mentioned - has brought a number of implications to the area of artistic education. Is that what he did? Basically, this has not adjusted our priorities, but their hierarchy. So, priority - and I speak in the previous academic year - has made it possible to find ways to continue the process, to safely reopen the structures when the conditions allow it and to ensure the best possible conditions for conducting tests. The purpose was not to lose the academic year and this purpose in the period 2019-2020 was achieved. As you referred to gaps, I would like to tell you that there are no gaps last year for the following reasons: Firstly, we designed special health protocols on structures in cooperation with the Committee on Emulsifiers, which were implemented as soon as schools reopened last year and were effective - we consider this to be the result - as no case or coronary hyperstimulation was recorded anywhere. Secondly, we have taken care of the state structures to obtain the necessary equipment to make artistic training by telematics as far as possible. Thirdly, we have also given the opportunity to conduct courses in other areas of operation, when schools opened up, namely outdoor areas, which we did in cooperation with municipalities throughout the country, to facilitate the conditions. And fourthly, where it was necessary, we extended the academic year to replace the lost lessons. With responsibility and speed, we are also moving in this year's academic year, but with the aim of protecting public health. We are therefore planning measures at the very first moment aimed at ensuring continuity and consistency of the process and supporting the structures, the teachers and, above all, the students. We recognize the peculiarities of this object and plan on the basis of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, let me say here that as you know, the institutional framework for the operation of these schools is very old. It has been voted in 1981, that is forty years ago, and it certainly needs an update. You have doubted to a certain extent that there are no serious educational gaps since the operation throughout these schools' pandemics. I think you're not right, reality is different. What comes from the students and from the students is that there are these gaps, of course they do not have the same size from school to school. Let's say here the pandemic was like the donkey that was wrong and ate it from the top, because the problems were like old times. The pandemic just came now and operated cumulatively and prostheticly on the already existing problems. In the private schools, there were problems, which operate on purely business criteria, as well as on state schools, which are underfunded, since as you well know, the budget of the Ministry of Culture in the state budget has an entirely symbolic percentage of participation. It is degraded to some extent - to a large extent - the level of the studies of these schools. And one of the biggest and most serious problems - we again consider it, Minister - is the lack of a single analytical curriculum for each area of artistic activity. And that, of course, is your responsibility, the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, which you should at some point assume as a ministry. Let us see a practical consequence - in order to understand - of this lack of the single programme for young people, for this year's students. After examinations held each year from September under the supervision of the Ministry of Culture - it appoints the Committee of Examinations for both public and private schools - these students this year, who entered September 2020, have not studied yet. Others study only by means of teleworking, and there are many who do not attend at all, since their closed schools do not provide this possibility either. The different curriculums of these schools - because there is a fun of schools in Attica alone are twenty private drama schools - and they contribute to their differentiated function, which, for some in the pandemic, means to shut down these schools and do not allow for a common design of the replacement of teaching material by the Ministry. We would like an answer to support measures for these students, who also face increased financial problems, to give them, to give them all, to ensure that all the appropriate electronic equipment is provided to monitor telematics. They have to get a pass - at least that! - a pass to travel through public transport, get a rental bonus, of course. They're so in need of it. And in any case, we hope that at tomorrow's meeting, which, as we have learned, you will have as head of the Ministry with the Association of Students of Dance, Theatre and Cinema, you will give concrete and more positive answers. Finally, we would like, Minister - and we would call for - the Ministry of Culture to take action in order to meet all those health requirements for the opening up of these schools by living, because you understand that art cannot be served under the 'tel' pretext from far away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u36	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Delis. First of all, let us begin with a clear assumption that artistic education, such as the cultural sector as a whole and the education sector internationally - not only in our country - has to adapt to some very specific conditions created by pandemic. Therefore, what we can always do and what we need to do is to monitor epidemiological data in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the Committee of Logistics and obviously to be vigilant in order to adapt every time, on the basis of the circumstances, our moves in the direction, as you say, obviously first of all, the best possible educational process and primarily the safety of all those involved, students and teachers. Obviously, we recognise the peculiarities - I said earlier - of artistic education and that much of what is being taught by children cannot be taught in the same way by means of distance learning, by the nature of the subject. However, we think and believe that we need to limit the issue caused by this. Thus, our state structures have also fundamentally reformed their programming in such a way and targeted, methodically, so that they cover academic issues - mainly as long as Lockdown lasts - and then proceed to the most practical ones. We did this, as I said, the academic year 2019-2020. It's something we're doing this year. So what we have done and continue to do is that we are talking to everyone. Recently we met with representatives of the students of the structures of artistic education. We therefore have a full picture and awareness of the circumstances, but also of the problems they face. We also met representatives of drama schools and representatives of dance schools. We are therefore very well aware of the subject, and that is why we have designed with doctors too highly specialized health protocols, which catch even details, such as the use of the lung organs, how a choir lesson takes place, how a theatrical rehearsal takes place, and so on, precisely because we are so deep in this matter and because we are listening and learning from all those who are involved in this process. With this thinking we gave an extension last year, with this thinking, and this year we will do whatever it takes, so that schools that have left behind in their educational process can catch up and have time to get their students to do the same thing before the examinations cover the educational gaps and matter and therefore either get or graduate from their schools. Our commitment, too, is clear that we will not take the children directly from home to exams. Obviously, there's gonna be a period of adjustment for children, they can't go - let's say - the dancers suddenly from the house to run tests. We'll do the same where it takes. Obviously, if necessary, there will be an extension of the year, as was the case last year, as I said before. And this year, we started it earlier, and we started it where the academic year was requested, precisely to prevent such issues. Mr Delis, I would like to close by saying that, for the part of the sector's support, we are in contact with the Ministry of Finance, we have jointly examined a number of measures and I think we will be in a position very soon to specify them even more. In closing, I say we are watching - be sure - the development of the pandemic. We are in constant contact with all those involved. We are vigilant so that it does not delay a single minute longer than the opening up of the artistic structures, when the conditions allow it to be fully secure, with protocols that we have already put in place and which have been approved by the Sanctions Committee. The Prime Minister has repeatedly said that priority is the security of everyone, to get everyone out of this difficult treaty, and therefore all our efforts are focusing in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too, Minister. Next is the second question by number 319/18-1-2021 of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Independent tax on newspapers of medical hospitals, health centres, EKAV and all health establishments". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos. Here, Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes for the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much. Minister, it was a constant demand for the medical world and, more generally, for those who make on-calls to the public hospitals and health units of the Greek state to be taxed automatically for the amounts coming from on-calls. The pandemic has highlighted this need to be addressed directly, because the increased number of newspapers combined with the current tax system, to tax income at a higher rate in total and progressively, leads to excessive taxation, which is not in line with the purpose for which they have an increase in newspapers. If we add to this their tax with the special solidarity levy from which they were not exempted as public workers, while regulating the issue for the private sector, we will see that we really need to along with the provision of these people to deal with the pandemic to accept our proposal that there should be an autonomous tax on newspapers, newspapers, at least for 2020 and 2021, with which we have reintroduced a phase of intensity and need to have increased newspaper employment, and at the end of 2021 to assess whether it should continue in this way or whether taxation should be carried out in another way. That is why I ask you whether you intend to accept the proposal that we have tabled to you as an act of justice, a fair taxation policy for all staff of the ESS hospitals, health centres, the EAEC and all social and health units as an indication of one side of interest in their offer and on the other hand to restore their fair taxation system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, you are well aware that the Government exhausts every margin to support all the social groups in the context of pandemic impact management. All of us are grateful for the effort made by doctors, nurses and all workers in the health sector. This effort is recognised and the government has proved it in practice by establishing, shortly before Easter, an extraordinary provision for health officials. In particular, there was exceptional financial assistance equal to half their basic salary in eight thousand hospitals, EAEC, EAEC and the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. Beneficiaries of the allowance were all employed in any employment relationship with public or private law, project contracts and others employed in these bodies. This exceptional benefit was inconsistent and is not subject to direct and subsidiary insurance, one-off benefit, and health care. You know that there are specific budgetary margins, which we cannot exceed. The granting of this exceptional provision to health workers was an initiative and a priority of the Government with the budgetary margins available. The resources we have are not inexhaustible and we must count on everything. The provisions of Article 15 of Law No 4172/2013 are clear as to the question you ask. However, as you have seen, the management of the effects of the pandemic is not a static process. The Government shall take on a lasting basis measures to support various social groups in line with the existing priorities, but also with the country's budgetary resilience. I'm not going to share false promises, and I'm always talking responsible. You have and we have experienced all the difficult period during which we joined forces to keep the country up against populism, the multiplication of promises that have remained promises and easy solutions that some have proposed, but they have proved to be not there. The support of health workers was not limited to granting the emergency benefit. There have been other indirect measures to support health workers for whom I am going to refer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u43	Minister, I understand from your position in your first speech that you do not intend to consider our proposal. However, in relation to what you have said, I would like to say that this is not a question of additional benefits. We're not asking for benefits. We ask that you do not take them any more than they can give, because that is what it is. When a doctor in any hospital or in the EMCDDA or in any healthcare unit carry out more on-call than he usually did, he changes his tax scale, which you know very well. The change in the tax scale often leads to the tax being equal or more or less than a significant number of newspapers. The same applies to the special grant granted by you. And she's here to add to the income. I'm not saying it's a tax free service. To God! But the large number of newspapers is dramatically changing the scale. Changing the scale means excessive and unfair taxation. Doctors cannot deny the above on-calls because of the state of the coronary pandemic. You could alternatively consider the usual compulsory on-calls going with the old regime and the extra on-calls being tax-free or going with another regime. But you cannot consider it. Minister, because perhaps my parliamentary intervention is the only one that has raised this matter to you, I think it has not been taken together. It has, of course, been put in unsubstantiated time by the medical world. The period is such that others are, of course, the main issues for people's health. But this is also an issue. So I think you should consider this proposal and see how much the most tax these people will be asked to pay. While we are talking about reductions due to the pandemic, these will perhaps be the only ones who will pay an excessive tax. So, you should consider it and, after you look at it, make a final statement and decide to see a different system in 2020 and 2021 applied, and of course, by the end of 2021 and the pandemic that has affected our country and the whole world, to look at the permanent implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u44	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u45	Mr Colleague, as I said before, in addition to the emergency provision granted last year in Easter, the government practically supported the work of health officials and other ways of making use of all available resources. The important thing, of course, is that this development has become productive and effective. In particular, in July 2019 we received five hundred and fifty-seven beds in intensive treatment units. Today is over three hundred. We created over four thousand six hundred single COVID beds in hospitals. We went to the recruitment of seven thousand health professionals, four thousand nurses, who will become indefinite time and three hundred intensifiers. All this, apart from the recruitments, which have already been launched through the AACC's competitions. I would also remind you that, in view of the exceptional circumstances created, we have enabled public hospitals and health centres to cooperate with private specialists in particular specialisations or doctors specializing in intensive treatment units by issuing a service report of up to two months and with the possibility of extending cooperation for two more months. The monthly pay of these doctors is set at EUR 2,000 and is tax-free, unrestricted and irreparable in the hands of the public or third parties. The EAW officials were also given the annual specific compensation for the purchase and replacement of the staff members' suits, which are inappropriate and duty-free. I'd say it's very important that now in intensive care units there are no waiting lists. I would remind you that at other times, when there was no pandemic, we had an average of thirty to thirty-five of our fellow people, who were daily on waiting lists, waiting for an intensive treatment unit to be placed. I am sure you have had similar experiences in your constituency in Heraklion. In order to do all this, I demanded resources mainly allocated by the state budget, and there was private assistance. From there on, I will repeat here from the Step of the House the gratitude of the entire Greek society towards the health workers. This was expressed in practice by the Government and assessed on a lasting basis, depending on the budgetary margins available, which, as you know, are not inexhaustible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, too, Minister. We will now discuss the last timely question of today's parliamentary control. Therefore, the second question will be discussed under number 320/18-1-2021 of the President of Heraklion's Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘A risk of unfair taxation due to failure to meet the agreed limit of electronic transactions’. The question will also be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, no doubt 2020 was a year in which there was the highest recession in the post-war history of the country. A lot of people think it's gonna be 15%. In the explanatory statement, which was long before it was closed in 2020, private consumption was projected to fall by around 8% compared to 2019. The facts show that consumption of each family has decreased, from every activity and thus the application of the obligation to cover 30% of the annual real income with the costs of purchasing goods and services by electronic means is impossible to cover for hundreds of thousands of our households and fellow citizens, which means that if there is no coverage under the relevant law, there will be a difference for this amount of taxation in addition to 22%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So the question I ask you is whether the Ministry has so far captured the picture and the figures on the number of taxpayers, who might be unduly charged by an additional tax due to this inconvenience - closed market, closed activities, reduced consumption - and whether it intends to suspend the validity of the relevant provisions for revenues in 2020. Of course, I would remind you that for the previous years 30% was 20%. It has never been implemented, that is, 30%. You must inform us what measures you are considering, Minister, in order to avoid any possibility of unfair taxation as a result of this provision, which has not yet been implemented. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, as you and other colleagues will have seen, I always come to the House to give answers to parliamentary scrutiny, not only because of respect for parliamentary procedures and my colleagues, but also because the government operates responsibly, produces results and has given sufficient samples of writing proving that it is fully aware of the reality. I know all the data very well. We are not disfellowshipped from the world, from real life and everyday problems. The measure of electronic proof, Mr. Colleague, was targeted in particular. It is a means of strengthening citizens' tax awareness, but also electronic transactions that are an effective means of limiting tax evasion, but also of increasing public revenue. Besides development, the limitation of tax evasion and an increase in public revenue are the conditions which create a financial space and lead to new tax reductions. That is why the 30% limit of the annual real income was introduced, which must correspond to electronic transactions with evidence made by bank means of payment, either electronically or by depositing into a bank account. As I told you at the beginning of my speech, we were fully aware of reality when we legislate. That is why we have also introduced the exemptions from the obligation to collect electronic evidence of 30% of the declared income. The exemptions concern our elderly fellow citizens who have completed the seventh year of their age, people with a disability rate of 80% or more, those who serve their military service, minors who are obliged to submit an income tax declaration, those who are in legal support, foreign tax residents who are obliged to submit an income tax declaration to Greece, public officials and officials serving abroad, tax residents of Greece living or working abroad, as well as permanent residents of villages with a population of up to five hundred inhabitants and islands with a population of less than three thousand. It is a pretext that pandemic has limited consumption and economic activity. I will reply to the second question of rationalization and the application of social justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I take your last sentence as a positive sign to address the problem. I would like to say that we agree with regard to the consolidation of tax awareness and the need to increase electronic transactions. This applies to normal conditions. This tax conscience cannot be established, applied and evaluated under rollover rules, as we had in 2020. Overthrow situations experienced households. Apart from the closed business, which has made consumption and markets difficult, our fellow citizens, because of their sense of insecurity, have further reduced their consumer spending. It is an issue that, as you have already seen, you have captured on the basis of evidence. So, at least for this year, there must be at least the punishing attitude that seemed to exist in the 2020 draft report on increasing revenue from this fact. Education and the consolidation of fiscal consciousness and custom for electronic transactions can indeed be done with conditions of increase and e-commerce, but also with simplification of procedures no longer, as there are no longer any obstacles to the POSs that existed in the previous period nor with other issues. But there is one difference. There was no normal market. You must therefore exclude 2020 from this obligation and of course be appreciated in the course of 2021, depending on the course of things, whether it will be the case. I, because I do not have the option of tritology, would like to thank you in advance for dealing with the matter and, of course, to say, personally that you have indeed demonstrated that you are giving solutions within your responsibilities. Of course, there are wider issues. I think that on the previous issue you should work with the Ministry of Health to see the scale of the problem. Look at it, please. But, in order to focus on today's question, we expect a positive answer to address the possibility of our citizens being taxed unjustly, who have not been able to carry out 30% of their transactions for goods or services, which is about their real income, due of course to the pandemic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u53	Mr Colleague, as I mentioned in my prototype, we are fully aware of reality. You can see, after all, that we are constantly taking new measures to support households and businesses, to update institutional interventions and to suspend regulations that, under these circumstances, would significantly affect citizens. As you know, there are already thoughts of corrective action in relation to the framework of the repayable advance in order to support the most affected companies in the crisis. You also know that we have gone ahead with the suspension of tax and insurance obligations for companies and professionals affected by the pandemic. We have established a new framework for settlement of debts, created during the pandemic period, which provides for payment on a case-by-case basis in twelve instalments at zero rates or in twenty-four instalments at an interest rate of 2.5% for all natural and legal persons affected by the coronary for their certified debts suspended until 30-4-2021. At the same time, we have given the opportunity to reincorporate into the regulation of a hundred or a hundred twenty doses or an out-of-court mechanism for those who lost it. We are giving a second chance to those who were unable to respond to these favourable regulations at this time. All of them are revivaling the specific arrangement they had with all its benefits. The measure of collecting electronic evidence will be applied with the following parameters. Firstly, none of the taxpayers will be wronged. As I pointed out before, we are fully aware of the reality, of the limitation of consumption, as I said before, and of the range of transactions due to Lockdown for several months within 2020. Secondly, any intervention required will be based on evidence. These data will be derived from the electronic transactions carried out throughout the year. On the basis of this information, the content of possible intervention will be decided if necessary. Be absolutely certain that, firstly, any intervention required will be made in time and before tax returns are made for the revenues of 2020 and secondly, no taxpayers will be wronged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. We will be adjourned for a while and will be back on the agenda for the legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is continuing. Today the political leaders will also speak and because we will lose time, I will start with a communication to this House. The Minister of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, the Minister of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, State, Deputy Minister for Development and Investment, Foreign and Home Affairs, as well as the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, tabled a draft law on 19-1-2021: "The integrated maritime policy in the island area, provisions for compliance with international navigation obligations and the upgrading of L.S.A. and specific arrangements for digitisation and in general strengthening the competitiveness of the Greek shipping industry - COVID era." It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to take note of the fact that the Intergroup of Parliamentary Parliamentary Committee on Thrace Development, set up on 24-7-2020, in accordance with Rules 44 and 45 of the Rules of Procedure of the House and for which the plenary has set a deadline for submitting its report on 28 January 2021, is asking by unanimous decision, taken at its meeting on 19-1-2021, for an extension of its operation until 28 April 2021. Does the House agree that the report should be extended until 28 April 2021?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u56	The House unanimously agreed, in accordance with the following document.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Definition of the range of gyalitis in the marine region of Ionian and Ionian Islands to Cape Tinaro in the Peloponnese". We will start with Mr Constantine Bogdano. They have asked yesterday, which has not received the floor, two parliamentary representatives, Mr Bukouros - who is present - and Scandalides - whom I ask the Change Movement to notify to come to the Chamber - who will follow Mr Bogdanos. Then there is Mr. Dritsas, Mr. Voloudakis, an intervention by the former President of Parliament, our colleague, Mr. Nikos Voutsi, and we will proceed. Of course, what I told you on the condition that the Heads of the parties will not have come to the Chamber to ask for the floor until the time I told you the five or six first speakers, because the Bureau has not been informed of the exact time that each Chief will want to speak. Well, Mr. Bogdano, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the liberal conservative thinking sees the nation and its statehood, the national state, as a living organization. As living, then, an organization, the nation and the nation passes acne periods and other periods of retreat, periods of extroversion and periods of intra-review. He's going through, to borrow the detailed shape of Professor Steths Kalyvas, from triumph moments, but also tragedy. The liberal element of this approach is that, as far as these almost natural circles are concerned, we are not a citizens' ballot or abundant of unavoidable legality. On the contrary, we are masters of our collective destiny, which we are constantly shaping with our decisions, with our collective actions, which are coming to answer, but also to compose the objective data. So, after the painful crisis of the last decade, after a long period of endoscopy, Greece day after day proves in practice that it is entering a new historic phase of dynamic extroversion, and this again is not due to any judiciary, any unresolved and flooding of history, but to the concrete choices, decisions and actions of the Government of Nea Democrat Republic and Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply honoured and thrilled to take part in the meeting with which Greece is increasing the area of its national sovereignty for the first time since 1947. Greece today exercises its sovereign right to extend the territorial waters in the Ionian Sea until Cape Tainaro from six to twelve nautical miles, making the first step for the expansion of our territorial waters and the rest of the Greek territory, in Crete, in the Aegean Sea. So we demonstrate in the clearest way that Greece comes out of the period of inertia and exploits the possibilities offered by international law. After all, the step we are taking today is part of an unprecedented, consistent, mystical, measurable, firm and multifaceted Greek foreign and defence policy, which has also made President Erdogan lose his sleep. Because Greece, at a particularly sensitive juncture, builds up the precious capital necessary for our homeland to grow literally and transportly, through the EastMed pipeline and the MDCA military agreement with the United States, with the first time in our history. I was a little kid talking about AOZ and twelve miles and that's where it's happening now. We are doing so today with the strategic alliance and relationship that we are building with France, with the alliance with Egypt, the United Arab Emirates, with the defence cooperation agreement with Israel and the uprising of these two nations and old civilisations in the Eastern Mediterranean, with the upgrading of F-16 to the highest international level and the resurrection of EAB, with the maintenance of the Miraz, finally, and their return to action, with the more doubling of defence expenditure, with the obstruction - let us be clear - of an invasion - asymmetric, but invasion - on Evros and the new wall on our land, with the sealing of the sea borders from the port and the Hellenic Navy, with our ships actually touching the opponent, with the Greek fighters again in Cyprus, with the first Greek Rafale flying within 2021 and the new frying table, with the new fryings on the table. We don't give in inch, we don't give in centimetres, but we make it clear that Greece doesn't play or joke. That's not a shocking attitude either. 'Daliki' is a Turkish concept. We're talking with masculine. On the contrary, this is our self-evident commitment to the nation, as the most liberal government feels in the history of our state. With deep areas, therefore, where this government dares, in the most critical areas of public action, in foreign policy, in education, in public security, in the relationship between a citizen and a state, by breaking practices established for decades, with prudent management, both of the economic and social and health dimension of the pandemic crisis, and by literally unprecedented commitment to the production of concrete and tangible results for the life and everyday life of every Greek woman and every Greek woman, we demonstrate every day that this country has now entered a historic new phase of extroversion and dynamism. And it is this responsibility, determination, systematicity, efficiency and above all the honesty, the honesty of the current government that allows it, despite the objective difficulties of the context, to unite a vast majority social alliance of Greeks and Greeks from different ideological backgrounds and references, but which unites us all the deep desire of our country to progress proudly ahead in the future that is appropriate to the name of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply honoured and thrilled to address this meeting, which, for the first time since 1947, has increased our country. I very briefly hope that, during this parliamentary term, we will have the opportunity to complete what we are currently starting, celebrating the expansion of our territorial waters in Crete, the Aegean Sea, throughout the entire Greek territory. We are enthusiastic about this historic bill today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u59	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Christos Boukokos, will now be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting on the bill under discussion, which follows yesterday, is indeed one of the good times of the Greek Parliament. The Greek citizen who only watches us satisfaction can feel about how the political forces approach such a matter. Even if some political parties are asking questions or, if you wish, some different views, the fact is that the political forces in their overwhelming majority agree. And that's what the Greek people want. Whatever ideological position the Greek citizen is, he wishes and demands from the political forces, on the big issues relating to the country's existence and progress in the modern world, minimum consensus. Today, Mr President, you will allow me to say a maximum and not a minimum consensus, in a bill which is really historic. The extension of territorial waters to the western sea front, first and foremost, strengthens our national sovereignty. The vote on this historic bill shows our determination to apply an undeniable national right resulting from international law. We are not putting issues that are not based on international law at the table. This strengthens both the role and the position and especially the image of the country. We are therefore exercising this national right. The government will, of course, also decide on other national rights, which are also derived from international law, at the appropriate time and when that will be beneficial. It has been said by the Prime Minister since last August by the Minister of Foreign Affairs yesterday at his position, but I see an agreement on this issue as well by the other political forces. But why is this bill a history? Because we are increasing our national sovereignty in a very important part of our marine space. In essence - what has been said by many colleagues - the country is growing. The extension of the gynaecitis zone shall be carried out in accordance with Article 27(1) of the Constitution, which concerns the change in the boundaries of the territory and for which a law adopted by an absolute majority of Members is required. Here too there will be the overwhelming majority of Greek Members of the House this evening and the political world of the country is credited for that which will be voted on this evening. So this is the procedure that is being followed. All Greek governments have so far rightly argued and strongly that the twelve nautical miles are our inalienable sovereign right. This is a national fixed position. The government's decision to extend to twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea, announced by the Prime Minister himself, marks a major development, which I would like to highlight. Greek foreign policy leaves a period of inertia. Our country is making use of all the possibilities that international law gives to the national interest. And that is not the way we have arrived here all of a sudden, and Greece does not register, without any advancement, what is being voted on today in Parliament. There was a diplomatic marathon and after many decades, ladies and gentlemen, we reached an EEZ delimitation with neighbouring Italy, a European country as well. There was a partial settlement of maritime zones with Egypt and there was a decision on joint action with the Court of Justice in The Hague with Albania. And because some comments were made yesterday and there was criticism of this issue, the fact that the Albanian constitutional court annulled the agreement on demarcation of maritime zones, which was achieved 12 years ago with the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs Dora Bakoyannis, this is not a burden on Greece. Also, the fact that we are going to use the International Court of The Hague together does not mean that we will come along with the same arguments. Clearly it is the neighbouring Albania that must justify and justify why it annulled that agreement, which had been accepted by both sides and signed by the then Minister for Foreign Affairs of Albania. The process is dynamic. There is consensus on the appeal, but the arguments will certainly not be in common. That is what I think is easy to see. I believe that this issue will also be dealt with. They also demonstrate that agreement and today's bill that at least our resignation - we do not claim exclusiveity, we know that when there is maturity and seriousness from all political forces, much can be achieved, but I am talking about our resignation - has a long-term strategy on these issues. This bill didn't come up today all of a sudden. There was that deal. There were agreements with Egypt and Italy. There has always been a advance on the basis of International Law and we are now coming to make the state's law to extend the country with the agreement of the vast majority of our neighbours. This is very important, ladies and gentlemen, because these issues do not require thoughtless small and medium-sized ones. You have to make agreements, you have to participate in alliances, you have to interfere with the international major issues that concern our region. This is the only way you strengthen your word and increase your strength, and then your positions really become positions and positions of other states and other international organisations, and so it grows beyond the country's territory and power. You see that all the indictment of what is happening in the Eastern Mediterranean and North Africa is being collected today by Turkey in its reckless policy. We must therefore not do what Turkey does. We have to go this way that marks today's bill. This will increase the power of the country. Today's bill comes in favour of the overwhelming majority of the country's political forces following another bill on armaments and the supply of Rafale fighter aircraft, where there was a good climate and consensus there too. And believe me, ladies and gentlemen, this consensus on such issues gives rise to feelings of satisfaction to the Greek people. If we cannot agree on that, then I wonder what. Well, well, we agree. Perhaps I have said a few things more about the consensus reached in this historic bill. But believe me, it strengthens the history of this bill, because the Greeks in the big and difficult year, which will be two hundred years from national regenerativeism, from the national liberation revolution, once again prove that the importants can and can be discussed and agreed and understood. From there on, it is also important that the very body of the bill underlines that the exercise of this national sovereign right to increase the hayalitis zone at twelve nautical miles can be exercised in any area of the territory, when the government considers it beneficial. Neither should the developments nor the challenges of the growing neighbours and in view of the exploratory orders, which I shall say just a few words about. We must plan and serve this strategic planning with as much unity as possible. We are also listening to the criticism of the Officerate, that we had reservations when the question of the twelve nautical miles came from the previous government, but, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this issue was literally raised in 'and 5' by the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, when he handed over the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the former Prime Minister, Mr Alexis Tsipras. These things require a seriousness and a better design, wider. So that gave a sense, if you want, of political bankruptcy, to say it very elegantly. Also, there have been no developments in the Eastern Mediterranean, which have increased over the last two or three years. Thirdly, there was not all the work that I said before and to which many speakers stood during the debate on the bill made by the current Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and today's Minister for Foreign Affairs, Nikos Dendias. We are going with the consent of too many countries, if you like, with an allied force. Of course, a lot has been heard about the exploratory contacts that will start back in Istanbul on the 25th day, if I remember correctly, and there is a reservation about what will happen there. Listen, the investigative orders are informal talks in order to outline, communicate, make known the positions of the countries that are discussing. And Greece always discusses international law. He has made it clear to neighbour Turkey that the only issue is the issue of maritime zones, and from that point on, the fears that other issues can get into the investigative table. Firstly, because negotiations are informal and, secondly, because no point in international law obliges you on a table of such negotiations to accept issues that are unilaterally on the one hand. As long as Turkey raises unilateral issues, since the Greek position is firm and clear about our differences, it unilaterally raises them, neighbouring Turkey will discuss them unilaterally. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to express my satisfaction at the consensus in this bill, which increases the country, to say it simply and clearly. I would say that we need to follow this political and strategic planning, build alliances, as we did with a number of countries with which we have never had an alliance in the past, Israel, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, the Mediterranean Summit. So building alliances means strengthening the word and position of our country. We are implementing this policy and we believe that it is already vindicated and will be vindicated even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u61	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Constantine Scandalidis, will now be given the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is an important opportunity for two reasons. The first is to send out the message everywhere that the Greeks in front of the attempt to violate the sovereign rights of the country admit that the House is not just a field of party conflicts and conflicts, but is the main place to promote the national interest. The second, on the basis of this legislative proposal for the extension of the gynaecitis zone to the Ionian Sea, is to open a wider dialogue on the crucial issue of the external threat in the context of the important developments and reclassifications in the region. A dialogue that will allow our country to formulate a modern national strategy adapted to the new conditions and to formulate its priorities and objectives in a literally new era. There is no better and more valid space than that of the national Parliament. I think our rapporteur, both in committee and after his meeting with the Minister yesterday and yesterday in his report, highlighted all aspects of this regulation. The acceptance by us of the divisional arrangement only as a necessary defence response to Ankara-sponsored expansionary review can be understood. The government, by the Foreign Minister, used a ton above in esteeming comments on a policy that became a one-way street. It is the fundamental defence against the fait accompli which Turkey is trying to secure in the region at the expense of our country. I would say that it is the self-evident response that at this particular juncture proves positive. This does not deny the country's status under International Law for an overall expansion in the Aegean and certainly under the Peloponnese and in the region south and east of Crete. It is necessary, firstly, to complete for the two regions, secondly, to continue initiatives with the countries of the region, Cyprus, Egypt, Israel and even Libya in order to enclose the area of the EEZ and, thirdly, to expressly recast itself as a decision, not only of the Government, but of the national Parliament, that we maintain our right to the Aegean and our insistence on demarcation to The Hague. There is a criticism, why did the previous governments not end up with similar demarcations? Because it was simply a fixed position of the country as a whole. Today there is a change of line, resulting from defence against Turkey's change of strategy, which many are attempting to degrade into a short-term phenomenon, while it is not a short-term phenomenon at all. Ladies and gentlemen, Turkey has come to the exploratory contacts with all its claims on the table. At the same time, he became openly speaking of two separate states in Cyprus. Our permanent position, which has long been true since the post-militarisation, is that Cyprus is a cornerstone of the strategy of Hellenism. I consider the obvious marginalisation of the Cyprus issue on the agenda of the important issues of the international community as a major mistake, primarily to the Cyprus leadership, but also to our foreign policy. It is time for Greece to rejoin the Cyprus issue in the field of these initiatives, in cooperation with the Cypriot leadership. The Cyprus issue must now and not tomorrow be upgraded to a European and international issue again. It's our top national debt. As for the exploratory discussions and because the government has raised the issue of dialogue with Turkey as decisive for developments, I think we should not be illusory. The fate is almost specified and once again their outcome. If the government adopts a position other than that which it has laid down and which we obviously agree and must insist on, it is clear that only a better climate can be achieved in relations with Turkey. For climate reasons, yes, it is positive. Nor in the essential dialogue will the dream of recourse to The Hague be seen in the visible time horizon, even if some skin analysts believe it is time to open the agenda of all issues. Our national strategy cannot be confined to dialogue with Turkey as an end, nor can it separate and degrade issues of critical national priority, because in today's conditions Greece seems to be holding a defensive attitude that does not promote positive developments in the next few years. So, ladies and gentlemen, the demarcation of the new national lines is still a matter of the highest priority and crucial importance for the present and future of the country and, unfortunately, they have not been established through specific national conciliation procedures which the current government must have with all the parties in Parliament, with all the political forces, in order to have this engraving, which is absolutely necessary to turn our attitude into a defensive defensive one in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, a certain reading of the broader developments in the south-eastern Mediterranean region, which is sounding wishful and optimistic, is based on two fundamental forecasts for 2021: firstly, that the US, following the change in leadership, is returning to the region further and, secondly, that Turkey, under the weight of the economic crisis, is returning to Europe. I think these optimistic forecasts are a little over-the-counter. Obviously, the change in the American leadership is, in the first place, positive for Greek interests. However, it must be placed in the specific and undisturbed context of the wider alliances of the superpower in the region. It is the same of our untreated optimism that it will radically change things, except that this optimism is expressed every time and is disguised each time. Perhaps better conditions for a multi-powered foreign policy and an international diplomacy, yes, may exist. But spectacular change of attitude is not. We know very well what Turkey means for America, both in Russia's suburban, as well as in the Turkish populations that are east of Asia, as well as in the region's wider influence. Greece has to claim aggressively and dynamically its own role in the region of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans and under this perspective two US Prime Minister trips in the last few years have won very little for the country in relation to our generous attitude towards the Americans. It's about time we got out of this turbulence. In front of us is a sound economic and strategic war for the new power distributions centred on our region. It is perhaps not the time to say how, but in any case, we must renegotiate our wider role in the European Union and in the region as well as in the context of our alliances. The geostrategic upgrading of our country must become the new cornerstone of the national strategy. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent to abandon the illusions and pursuits of the new strategy that Turkey has developed with considerable consistency. She wants to impose her role as a strong regional force, taking advantage of her important strategic position, its population entity and its economic potential, despite the crisis that is currently plagued. It abandons the prospect of joining the European Union by strengthening the Islamic state towards the secular Western state within it. It calls for an equitable interlocutor with the great powers, which are confronted in the region. It reclaims in every direction a vital space for its expansional plans and attempts to dominate the wider Islam space. The Turkish state in Cyprus, the demilitarisation of the islands, the "rooting" of areas, the expansion of the sovereignty of the EEZ until the irrationality of sharing in the Aegean Sea are unfounded and unfounded claims, which violate any rule of international law, but constitute a structured and long-term strategy and not regular internal consumption choices, as some claim. The "Blueland" is not euphemism, it is a common and escalating policy, whose pursuits will be unfolded whenever circumstances favour it. It is a strategy that, whether we like it or not, we must cohabit with it for the next very long time. It is clear that within this landscape we cannot stay in the defensive castle of our conquered Europeanism and monitor the developments taking place in the area. We must plan, claim and conquer our new European, Balkan and Mediterranean role as the extreme European border. The first objective is to return quickly and decisively to the centre of European developments as a protagonist and not as a protagonist. Connect this return to the firm commitment to speeding up and deepening European integration. The Union must be tolerated as quickly as possible by a complementary and weak pole as a strong player and protagonist on the world chess board. The second objective is within our alliances to renegotiate with the West as a whole its new strategic role. It cannot continue to provide lessons of a faithful and stable ally and beg protection against intra-according threats. We are the country that can guarantee security, peace and cooperation in the Eastern Mediterranean, which can strongly support the integration of the Western Balkans into the European Union. It is not just a matter of solidarity and solidarity that Europe and the West must support the new role. It is the active protection of its borders. It's her own border area. That is why we should reconstruct our forces internally to ensure the present and future of Hellenism, the integrity and sovereignty of the country. We must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, at one time that we are a nation whose patriotism is a component of the nature and history of the patriots. This is our duty, above all for the government which owes not at the time, but permanently, to establish an undisturbed national front, even now, but also for any responsible political force that must make a positive contribution to this effort. We are here to support our country, as we have been doing for too many decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u63	And we thank Mr. Scandalides. The Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, is now called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u64	I didn't see you guys say hello.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u65	But I have seen you and I will congratulate you on your new duties. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, some such days in 1818 a Greek state education had its constitutional status. It was the United States of the Ionian Islands. It was, of course, still a British protectorate, but it did not stop being a semi-autonomous state at the same time. It was the first form of territorial reference of Hellenism after nearly four hundred years of slavery, an outbreak of the national idea of revolution, followed by three years later, and the space, which in 1864 was incorporated into the small then Greek Kingdom, to immediately become the first expansion of the country. More than two centuries later, in the same region, Greece is growing again! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For the first time following the annexation of the Dodecanese in 1947, the national territory is about 10% magnified, not by the secondment of territories or by other countries, but by the exercise of sovereign rights in the maritime zone, which extends from the Ottomans to Cape Tinaro and with procedures fully based on the rules of International Law. I would remind you that the first step had been taken with the Presidential Decree on the closed walls and the establishment of the base lines, a precondition for the Convention on the Law of the Sea for the calculation of the gyalitis zone and continental shelf of each state. Today, at the dawn of 2021, we are taking the second major, substantial step. Our country extends its dominance to twelve miles in the Ionian Sea. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The expansion of our territorial waters had already announced it since August. Indeed, four months later our seas are doubled. A right fully compatible with international legality and which Greece can obviously exercise in other regions, obviously also in Crete, but also elsewhere, in time and under conditions that she will choose. It is something that is expressly mentioned in the first article of the bill, which we are discussing today. In addition, this statement has been accompanied since 1995 and the official ratification of the Convention on the Law of the Sea by the Greek Parliament. This is a very clear message, which the government is now sending to those who are trying to make threats, with lionisations depriving our country of what the rules of international law allow it. Ladies and gentlemen, today's development did not occur at random and none of what led to it was self-evident. However, everything has been the result of active diplomacy exercised and exercised by this government, through the awkward recording of data in their dynamics, leaving behind strangles and old horrific syndromes and selecting the central scene of effective movements from the lonely gallery of observations, with fewer words and more action. So, before reaching the doubling of our territorial waters, we had reached successive agreements with Italy, with Egypt to demarcate our Exclusive Economic Zones. We have, in other words, closed matters that have been years old and have boldly opened up a new chapter both in our bilateral relations and in multilateral cooperation throughout the Eastern Mediterranean. These agreements were the result of tough and difficult negotiations under the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Nikos Dendias. But the text of the Treaty with Egypt has already been posted on the United Nations related page. The same will soon be followed by Italy. These are two points of peace and cooperation between our countries. But this is also a tangible example, a model of security and stability in an area that some threaten to turn into a minefield. At the same time, the Greek Minister for Foreign Affairs worked with his Albanian counterpart and now our disagreements with Tirana are now heading to an international judiciary. Just recently, the Prime Minister of Albania stated explicitly and unequivocally that the extension to twelve miles is an inalienable right to Athens, adding another argument in favour of our position that Mediterranean waters can unite rather than separate peoples. Finally, this extension of our rights to the sea would have remained a thousand times, if Greece had not launched a plan, with methodicality, a wide system of alliances throughout the entire Eastern Mediterranean. For example, last year with President Anastasiades and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, we signed the agreement on the EastMed pipeline together, while our cooperation with Cyprus, with Egypt, is constantly deepened through the tripartite forum and is already framed with an upgraded relationship with very important players in the Middle East region, such as the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. In other words, our foreign policy is now practically unfolding at many levels and is mainly reflected in concrete results at different parts of the global map. Ladies and gentlemen, almost forty years after the ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea in 1982, and another twenty-seven since its vote in the Greek Parliament, the expansion of territorial waters was a permanent argument for every government. Only today, for the first time, this repeated rhetoric, this expression of intent turns into a tangible result. From future potential it is now becoming a reality. The conditions, during 2020, were not so different from the previous years. Overall, however, it was the Greek attitude towards challenges. The new doctrine for protecting our maritime and land borders has been combined with the credibility of our country within the European Union, and thus Evros and the Aegean have in practice been guaranteed as the eastern boundaries of our entire continent. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Just days ago, Russia's Foreign Minister reiterated his country's position that expansion of territorial waters to twelve miles is an inalienable, legitimate right of Greece, while Greece has now become a key ally of the United States in the region. And despite the different perspectives on many issues, our cooperation with the outgoing American administration has brought very positive results and with the new leadership this will become even more effective. I know President Biden personally. He is an experienced politician who knows our region and its sensitivities. It is also a leader who is wisely, but also confidently, but is mainly on the verge of firm and unnegotiable values. Taking over his new duties, I am sure that the Greek American ties will become stronger than ever. I shall therefore repeat that the tangible results of today have been built by yesterday's silent efforts, which have been unfolded throughout the world, at bilateral and Balkan levels, in Europe, in the Mediterranean, in NATO, in the Arab world, with a policy of uniformity, at the same time in the areas of diplomacy, on the one hand, and national defence on the other. Because in our understanding the second is a parallel pillar of the first. Indeed, it was the painful and persistent work of the leadership and of the foreign ministry that formed this package of alliances of the country. But action on the international front would not be possible without the guarantee that our country's armour is secure. That is why better recognition of the work of the Armed Forces is no more than their practical support. You know that the agreement on the purchase of eighteen Rafale fighter aircraft has already been passed, thankfully by a large majority, by the National Representation and implemented at a speed of speed, unprecedented for the data of the Ministry of National Defence and the Greek public administration in general. At the same time, the upgrading of F-16 is progressing, taking steps to acquire new submarine helicopters and unmanned aircraft. For the Navy, as I am committed, the modernization of MEKO Freights will proceed, but also the acquisition of four new multi-played wells. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It will be the big decision that we have to make as a country, as a Ministry of National Defence, as a National Representation in the first half of 2021. Of course we are also moving towards significant reinforcement of the Drought Army. Overall, we are talking about a very ambitious, large-scale five-and-a-half-three-three-a-half-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three, five-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three's. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Diplomacy and defence, therefore, become a single national bed, as is obviously the foreign policy for which the Prime Minister is working with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am saying this because I heard some reports of alleged differences yesterday. They're claims without a trace of truth. And, at least, it is strange to hear from those who had assigned national responsibility on the one hand to Mr Kammenos and on the other hand to Mr Kotzia! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So everything has a limit. I will retain from this debate the fact that the Treaty on a substantial cross-party partnership on foreign policy issues is being formed between most of the parties of the National Representation and despite the individual differences, the individual criticism, this partnership is a positive conclusion to defend the country's national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, today the government is proposing a bill that strengthens the national situation, but it obviously also has an international dimension. Expansion of territorial waters can be carried out under International Law as our national initiative, but its scope and impact exceed local data. Because they essentially establish international legitimacy throughout the wider region, thereby guaranteeing - if I may say so - a fait accompli of stability and security in the liquid environment of the Eastern Mediterranean. For Greece, the disposition of sovereignty does not mean the will of dominance. Exercise of national rights is at the same time an exercise of international cooperation and the expansion of water to the west inevitably sends a message to the east. It shows that violence does not produce fair, but that, on the contrary, it is the law which produces peace. So, in the same spirit and with the same legal framework, we can regulate the great difference with Turkey, provided that the leaders of the neighbours abandon the monologue of disputes and come to the debate, at the conciliation table. It is true that 2020 has been extremely dense, but unfortunately no fertile to Greek-Turkish relations. I would say that no Greek government since 1974 has had so many, simultaneous and different challenges to the neighbours in so few months and all of this in pandemic conditions. On the other hand, our position has been quite clear from the outset: "The challenges stop, discussions begin", but Athens does not forget either the previous attitude or often the double language of Ankara. So we come with optimism, with confidence and hope in the exploratory contacts, which will begin on 25 January. We are coming, however, with zero naiveness. I would remind you that the investigative contacts are informal, non-binding meetings. They were suspended after nearly fifteen years, in 2016, on the previous government. The aim of our government is now to continue from the point where they stopped, much more, when the recent crisis began, Greece had always advocated dialogue, but under two conditions, to end Turkey's aggressive actions within the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone and to regain the thread of negotiations from the point that they interrupted in 2016. These two conditions now apply, and furthermore, there is also the acquis of the European Council's express decisions. There is a prospect of substantial sanctions against Turkey if it does not maintain declining over time. There is the prospect of the Borelli report, which will be presented at the next summit on 25 and 26 March, which will obviously have to monitor Turkey's compliance with international legality. There is, of course, also a similar decisive attitude now in the United States, with consequences not only of diplomatic, but of economic, geostrategic and geostrategic consequences. So we will willingly discuss in the light of international law the issue we have been disagreeing on for decades and which has caused the recent tension, that is, the definition of maritime zones in the Aegean Sea, and also in the Eastern Mediterranean. Let no one forget that I have said many times in this Chamber, but also in Europe, that sanctions in themselves are not an end in themselves, but a means for the neighbours to return to the path of international law and common sense, that, if they need to be imposed, they will primarily harm the Turkish people who have every reason - every reason! - coexist and want to coexist peacefully with the Greek people and that our intention is an overall approach that would ultimately serve to solve other serious issues, such as refugee and immigration. After all, every bilateral issue in our region is ultimately a European issue, it is an issue of international stability and Greece has achieved any differences with Turkey not to restrict them to the Eastern Mediterranean, but to make it very clear why they have significant European implications. But with the same boldness, I declare that none - nobody! - a debate cannot be about national sovereignty and the rights of the country nor obviously to challenge international treaties and rules of international law. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is why we have said many times that if we fail to agree, then we must be prepared to agree on how to refer our disagreement to the international courts. On this occasion, allow me another comment: I have often said that in national matters, which often have the opportunity to discuss openly in the Chamber of the Greek Parliament, it is always better to say a little less and to do a little more. And it has also been shown that arson rhetoric does not produce effective politics. I would therefore also call on some media to show more maturity. Let them not easily become loud-speakers of neighboring statements, because that is how they trigger an inappropriate war of impression. Ladies and gentlemen, while the national territory is expanding at sea, the national battle against pandemic is expanding. We only had an opportunity on Friday to discuss these issues for almost seven hours at the National Representation. I presented the latest data on COVID, with the 'Freedom' campaign, vaccination, economic support measures, especially for the difficult first quarter of 2021 and presented the full programme of vaccination with all the actions of the state, with numbers, with objectives, with timetables. The country is walking with small but careful steps towards what we call 'partial normality'. They refunctioned levels of education, opened up the retail trade, while general restrictions still apply, but also local interventions in areas where there are signs of outbreaks of the virus. It shall apply, i.e. the rolling plan, according to which the epidemiological data of the previous seven days will determine the actions for the following. We have exceeded ninety thousand vaccinated people, the first cycle of health vaccination is closed, but also our fellow citizens over eighty five years who can come to be vaccinated alone. The age platform will soon be opened from eighty to eighty four years. This is all done without tails, without suffering. From now on, the areas where the vaccinations are being carried out are added sixty-five health centres, forty-four new vaccination sites. According to my briefing this morning, everything seems to be evolving smoothly, of course, from February to mid-March, four major vaccination centres, which will be able to serve twenty thousand of our fellow citizens in Athens and Thessaloniki, will also be in the battle. But, I will say again, the production capacity of vaccines is unfortunately not stable. Therefore, the rate of vaccination in our country will be followed by the rate of receipts. Any vaccines that come will be made quickly, always making sure that there is a stock to secure the second dose for all our fellow citizens. Since yesterday, the issue of the digital vaccination certificate, another Greek innovation, which is automatically registered in each citizen's digital safe, has been launched to make use of this certificate, as he judges. As you know, I have already raised the issue of a single European model of such a certificate. I want to say this again, it is not a restriction, but rather a blockade which, in fact, COVID puts today on the moves of Europeans, which, of course, concerns tourism and our economy. I will have the opportunity to discuss this tomorrow at the special teleconferencing meeting of the European Council and I know that, with this position, many of my colleagues are already in agreement, and I hope that we will soon be able to reach a single European certification system. I will have the opportunity to suggest that the European Commission is also active in two further directions. The first is the immediate authorisation of vaccines which are at the final stage of authorisation with the first ‘ASTRAZENECA’ vaccine, which has already been found safe by many other countries. The second point, of course, to which we must focus is to force the PFIZER, so that it is fully consistent with the timetables for which it has committed itself to the European Union on vaccine delivery in the first quarter of 2021. Both will mean more vaccines and a quicker end of pandemic in Europe. At the same time, we will monitor the epidemiological data on a daily basis, but also on a weekly basis. The government's next priority is the opening up of high schools and high schools. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Other activities can wait a little longer to reoperate. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that this system of alertness and the progress of vaccinations aims to get to safety and to complete resumption of economic and social activity, because rapid shielding of health will bring about a faster recovery of the economy and, of course, greater breath in society. It has also been at the centre of the government's multi-frontal action for eighteen months. Without a safe population, without a strong economy, and national policy remains short-term and sectors, important initiatives, such as the expansion of the gynaecological zone that we are voting on today, will never find their true response. It does not mean effective diplomacy with a kneeling of the economy. And it is difficult to counter external threats when internal life threatens risks to public health, but also to the income of citizens. So all this is connected to each other. I am therefore closing with the 2020 lessons that can stand, using them as beacons for our course in 2021. And that's no more than unity and national self-confidence. Thanks to them, we have blocked the external disputes, limited the effects of COVID, but we have forged a new relationship of confidence and proved that we can also turn unprecedented crises into promotional opportunities for the country. Without all this, we would perhaps not do the great step of the twelve nautical miles, because today we are not only expanding our maritime sovereignty, we are expanding our national unity. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In other words, with the bill that we will shortly be voting on Greece is growing to an extent, but at the same time it grows in faith, stature and confidence of the future. That is why it must be approved by all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u66	Immediately afterwards, the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and Chief of Officerial Response Mr Alexis Tsipras is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u67	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say right from the outset that we welcome the extension of Greece's territorial waters to the west. At the same time, however, we also welcome you personally and your party to another strategic choice of the SYRIZA government you swept through, swept through, when you were in opposition. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I want to remind you what you were saying, when we announced this position, the intention in October 2018, both you and top members of your party who were in the opposition then coming out with public statements and almost said that we split Greece in two, they said that we were going to go ahead with a choice that would bring enormous damage to our national interests, the same, slightly lower tone, with what you said about the Prespecies Agreement. At least you have not declared the great patriotic war on this issue, as you did on the press. And now you yourself, who fought for the extension of our territorial waters to the Ionian Sea, have no problem applauding each other, standing up and applauding. This is how you prove that your untrustworthyness in foreign policy was not ultimately a simple coincidence. It may have been a simple coincidence if it concerned a matter. You're almost all about other things, you say, when you're in the office of the opposition officer and others do, when you're in the government's chairs. Your unreliability in foreign policy matters seems to be your second nature. Because two crucial foreign policy issues that we showed with a sense of national responsibility during our government service and while you knew, absolutely, that we were right to open them up and that we correctly designed them and that it was a national benefit to their completion, you both fought them with hypocritical, as it turned out, while you were in opposition. And when you became government, you turned 180 degrees. The treacherous Prespecies Agreement, Mr Mitsotakis, has now become so beneficial to the interests of the country that you demanded from Northern Macedonia that it be kept, in fact, in good faith, as you said in your recent statement on this subject, while the sarcasms and complaints about the expansion of our territorial waters, when you were in the opposition, have now given their place not only in the implementation of the strategy but also in warm applause. And I wonder if it goes through your mind that you should even at some point of your position rather than for triumphs, if you thought it was useful if not for history, at least to show that you have been taught by your mistakes and thus somewhat strengthen your credibility both inside and outside the country, do some self-criticism. I would like to remind you, because they are forgotten by the passing of the days, what has been said by the Foreign Minister of the New Democracy, Mr Kumoucasos - and I shall put it in the Minutes - at that time in the hearing, in the communication on our part that we intend to proceed with the expansion of territorial waters. Mr Koumoutsakos then talked about cheap impressions, which undermine fundamental positions of our foreign policy. Is that what you're doing today and you're applauding? [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Even Mrs Bakoyannis, who is used to having very sincere positions on foreign policy issues and avoids, but not always, positions based on the micro-political sign, said that this is a choice, which is contrary to the consistent view of Greek foreign policy, that the fragmented prolongations of the gynaecological zone give further arguments to the Turkish side. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The Neo Democrat, then, Mr. Kikilias, told us that SYRIZA is moving contrary to the consistent foreign policy view and that it is not so a serious foreign policy, creating fait accomplis and accelerating Turkey's arguments. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] When we opened up what you are applauding today, the New Democracy warden told us that we were joining Turkey's arguments. And of course Mr. Georgiadis, the elite, told us that we were doing damage to the place where we distinguish the Ionian from the Aegean. Mr. Syrigos, now Deputy Minister of Education, but known for his positions on foreign policy issues, told us then that it was a great mistake to exclude the Aegean from the Ionian Sea and urged us to extend the territorial waters in both the Aegean Sea and the Peloponnese and Crete immediately. Please, I would also like these to be tabled in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] That's what you said then. And all this is justified by the current biblical and applause? I wonder! In particular, how do you feel that if you do not revise the way in which you deal with a card and, on a case-by-case basis, with a glance at internal and party pursuits, can you as a government but can we have something positive in the future? Ladies and gentlemen, let me take this opportunity to mention a few more general considerations of good faith, with the sole aim of genuinely helping to ensure that mistakes - often criminally - of the past do not continue now that you have the responsibility of our national issues, by tearing up today and tomorrow in the country. First of all, I would like to raise this point: I think we will all agree that national issues, particularly the thorny issue of our relations with Turkey, which complicates it and makes it extremely dangerous for the provocative escalation of the neighbour's attitude in recent months and that President Erdogan's tactics require the political system, from the political parties, and above all from the ruling and major opposition party, an effort to reach agreement and consensus. I hereby declare that, contrary to what you have done as an opposition, Mr Mitsotakis, both SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and I personally are doing and are prepared to continue to do everything we can and we are ready to support the government in foreign policy matters, when it is for the sake of the country, where necessary. However, there is only one simple condition, I would say, which I think is also a requirement for every reasonable citizen, that the government will show and demonstrate that it is dealing with our national issues, the Greek-Turkish issues, above all, with national responsibility, with a clear national line and with a stable national rather than a small-party, not internally, as has unfortunately happened many times in the recent past since your resignation. The second point I want to make is this: we all know that the Prime Minister has the decisive reason for dealing with national issues, because there was a position on the Foreign Minister's side yesterday, and you have been in a hurry today - I do not understand what it was that prompted you to rush - to make it clear that you have the same views. Apparently, the Prime Minister has a responsibility. When, I imagine, on critical issues, there is disagreement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has no choice but to follow the line or leave. However, if I may, I would like to say - and I shall be quite frank - that is one of the reasons why we are concerned. We are concerned as Dedicated Opposition and I think that Greek society should be vigilant and concerned too. The reason for our concern is first of all your historic foreign policy. I am thinking above all of the way in which you have recently dealt with all the major foreign policy issues, the attitude you have taken, the attitude that was contrary to the national interest and which you have attempted to make known in your knowledge that it does harm to our national interest and to our national issues, with a risk of leading us to a climate of civil war and conflict. I would remind you that the images we have seen and all condemned to the Capitol of Washington in the United States, we have lived them out of this Chamber when with your leadings in those demonstrations, a part of the far right has been removed - the Golden Dawn and not just - and attempted to enter Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u68	You're messing with it, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u69	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u70	Were you, Mr. Bogdano? Is that why you protest? Were you there?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u71	Let me tell you later, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u72	Bearing in mind that this is the case, majority MPs in their regions were not only taking bullets and threatening messages, but various vandals were firing their homes. In this situation we were in this situation two years ago. Have we forgotten? You've forgotten, of course, because now you've done the damn thing. But that was a reality at the time and you, knowingly, led to these extremes, this civil conflict. In your knowledge you supported events of extreme nationalism. In your knowledge, you have come together with extremist and enthusiastically enthusiastically support national truth, in the name of the party and personal benefits, the truth that, of course, very late, very much later, you admitted. I would like to add here that if the SYRIZA government then declined to the suffocating pressures of Mr Mitsotakis and the Acro-right and did not have the seriousness, responsibility, determination, and even the bravery of accepting the political and party costs, today instead of the northern borders of our country, we would have an enemy and possibly another ally of Erdogan, like Libya. And one understands what this would mean to the conditions of the dangerous escalation of Turkish provocation! Do you really remember, Mr Mitsotakis, with what ease - and national urgency, I will say - in this Chamber you were telling us that the Prespecies Agreement is a national defeat which has already been cancelled in the conscience of the Greek people and a national mistake -'mot à mot', which is insulting both the truth and the history and our country? Do you remember with what ease you applauded from these seats on 25 January 2019 Mr Vorides, the current Minister of the Interior, when he called the government of SYRIZA "Government of National Response", Prime Minister, for a deal that you are now holding and honoring, as you say, and which, according to your Minister of Foreign Affairs, has fully restored history? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Incidentally, what national seriousness does it show on the one hand to invite the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Northern Macedonia to adhere faithfully to the agreement and on the other hand not to dare, Mr Mitsotakis, from this step, as Prime Minister of the country, even to the words of Northern Macedonia, in this Chamber? Or, one day, announcing to the media that you are fighting for northern Macedonia and the other not dare - for months, you have not dared - to bring to Parliament and finally ratify the memorandum with the neighbouring country? What sign of a serious country is that? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Is that serious and responsible, in foreign policy matters, to hide? In what you agree you hide. From your MPs, who are you hiding from? So one of our reasons for concern is the history of Mr Mitsotakis in foreign policy. Our second concern is also the way in which you have so far handled the situation in the Aegean. Uncomfortable strategy, oscillations, spasm movements, internal government inconsistency and a lot of waste of communication for internal consumption. These are the basic features of how you handled seizures small or longer in the previous period. So can we hope on a sound basis that we have hope, that we have positive predictions, so to speak, that we will successfully address the challenges of the neighbour? Let's draw our conclusions. We're worried. Finally, our concern is unclear about the major issue of the next few days, the resumption of the exploratory talks. Critical questions, which have not been clarified, are on what agenda do we go to these talks, with what objectives are we going to go to these talks, with what objectives are we going to pursue? How are we going to deal with the Erdogan strategy, which, by making the most of the European Union's Pontius Pilate, is trying to create a fait accompli against our national interests? What moves are being taken at the forefront and in the background to ensure some alliances in Europe and in general? All this for us, but I also believe for the vast majority of the citizens, is still in disgrace. And as long as Ankara insists on a role of the Aegean and as long as the international situation and the situation in the region remains volatile, both the risks for the country increase. Ladies and gentlemen, in these circumstances, in criticizing and expressing the fears of a large part of Greek society, I would like to reiterate that it is not in any way, at least as far as we are concerned, to turn a major, critical national issue into an extremist, nationalist 'kronies', into a passarella - as you have done in the Prespecies - of opposition resistance, but with a glance at micropolitical, because that is what you have done. I have no hesitation to repeat: we remain ready to contribute to the necessary understanding and consensus on critical national issues, particularly in relation to Turkey. In conclusion and good faith I would like to invite you, Mr Mitsotakis and you and your Government, to escape from ambiguity, from the catastrophic'seeing and doing' and to propose, to announce, to the political parties primarily, but also to the Greek people, a clear roadmap to address the Turkish challenges with diplomatic measures, with international initiatives, but also with all the means of defence, prevention and response, with clear national red lines. They must be made clear not only to us, but in every direction, so that both Europeans and allies and Ankara know that we are open to dialogue, that we are going there to find solutions, that Greece is not a country that calls for tension and war, that it is a country of peace and respect for international law, but is not going to accept feminine and challenges. But here is the problem, Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to refer to this a little more specifically. The problem with us - we have told you on several occasions - is that you have no clear strategy or how to defend our sovereign rights or how to resolve disputes with the neighbour. Of course, you have proved this not only in relation to your attitude in the past, but as I said before, and in how you handled the challenges in the Aegean. We have been through 2020 with the worst Turkish challenges since the Imian era. Instead of telling the Greek people the truth about what we could and could not do, what is it, what is at stake, if there are any violations, if there are no violations, what have you done? You have sinked into contradictions and spent all this time saying, for your part, that Turkey is isolated and that we are Europe's shield, when Turkey will receive a decisive response from the United States, France and the European Union, and when it is satisfied with unscrupulous and unscrupulous declarations of support from our partners. With regard to the United States of America, you went and met today and officially leaving President Trump with great concessions in advance and with the message that the United States had to support a faithful and predictable ally. And then for almost a year President Trump has shown more tolerance and given more support to the Turkish President than any other American President of the last decades in his Turkish counterpart. As far as France is concerned, the whole summer you were talking about buying freshwaters from France with defence capabilities in the eastern Mediterranean and at the same time about a defence agreement with France and at the last minute you canceled this market and opened a debate on the Rafale market at almost the same price, but another thing we were asking for and discussed and, above all, we did not see a defensive agreement with France. Perhaps this has led to the weakening of French support for our positions on sanctions at the last critical summits. As far as the European Union is concerned, you have made eight months to ask for sanctions officially, with your ministers saying that the Russians are not a priority and the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs saying that it is not your choice. Then you rightly signed the Greek Egyptian agreement on the Exclusive Economic Zone, but without ensuring that Germany, which is a critical country in the European Union, will remain close to our positions, so that for four months it will be up to us to try to adopt a sanctions mechanism and, of course, with the top result that all the German Foreign Minister in Ankara will be amazed the Turkish Minister for Foreign Affairs the day before yesterday when he threatened another European Union. At the same time that you were claiming sanctions for violation of our sovereign rights and Orutz Race was orchestrating the region, you were weakening our positions, saying publicly that there are no investigations and that there is no violations, thus sending mixed messages to both the other side and the European Union, because your only concern and now that you are a government is your own internal audience, your electorate and your internal equilibrium. Also, Mr Mitsotakis, you in your article - if I am not mistaken, in three foreign newspapers - on 9-9-2020, you were talking about research in unrestricted maritime zones, and at the same time the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was talking about violations of sovereign rights within our continent. Yesterday Mr. Dendias told us that our country's position on the Greek continent was formulated by the law Maniotis. It is well known, of course, but let it be tabled. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] If, therefore, you do not see any contradictions in these statements and positions, it is clear that all the others see great contradictions. Of course, while you were struggling everywhere that Greece would defend its sovereignty and sovereign rights, the Minister of State, Mr.Gerapitris, said publicly that our red line is only our dominance, that is, our territorial waters at six miles and perfection. When we stressed that the only way to defend a right, which is violated, is to exercise it and we proposed to extend the territorial waters south and east of Crete, Mr. Gerapetritis once again answered us, speaking of easy lionisms. Mr Chrysochoidis from that there, the ministerial seat described our proposal as nationalist. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You are still sending contradictory messages today, even after a holiday. We heard the Foreign Minister say yesterday that the government is finally planning to extend the territorial waters south and east of Crete. It designs what we proposed and told us is nationalism, easy lionisations, as Mr Gerapitris said. So what's your line? The line Tree or the line Gerapitrit? We must have a clear response to this issue. Do you even know something that's critical? Because, obviously, there has never been a government, which does not say the obvious, that it is our sovereign right and whenever we want to exercise it, but the time and time you decide to exercise a right is very important. Because we were telling you to exercise it when Orutch Race had become a ship of the line in the southeast Aegean, in the Dodecanese - where Mr Scandalides travels often, in his homeland - a few miles had arrived outside Rhodes and threatened to reach Crete as well. So it was very important that you make a move like this to show you have limits. Obviously, now that all of us are in the position that it is our sovereign right and whenever we want to exercise it. We're not quarreling about this. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words on the research. The conditions under which it is reopened there is no doubt that it is negative for the country and, unfortunately, the way, you have handled Turkish aggression, contradictions, conflicting messages, lack of strategy is the main reason for this. As far as we are concerned, the message of the Officerate is clear: we support the re-launching of exploratory and exclusive economic zone, with the prospect and hope of reaching an honest agreement on the basis of International Law either bilaterally or through an appeal to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Greece, however, must be perpendicular to any debate about so-called gray zones or about any debate about the demilitarisation of our islands. It must also be perpendicular to pressure from third parties on issues relating to our sovereignty and our sovereign rights. That's our place. It's clear, it's crystal, it's clear, and please, take advantage of the positive. Above all, our position is - and I would like to repeat it - that our red lines must be absolutely distinct. However, we have no picture of what the specific objectives of the negotiation will be, and that is what I have to say from this point of view. We have no picture of what the tactics will be. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, extending our territorial waters to the Ionian Sea is undoubtedly a positive step for the country. If, however, it is not combined with returning to a serious national strategy for the country's international, European and regional role, with clear red lines, but also determination and planning for solutions under international law, the risks are here and are great. The biggest risk is to get ahead of even worse developments for the Greek people, to escalate tensions, worse than those we have experienced in 2020. It's time to refresh! You have to, Mr Mitsotakis, you as Prime Minister and your Government take responsibility, and we as opposition are ready - and we have proved it - to assume what we are responsible for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u73	The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr. Gennimata, is now called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u74	Mr. President, I can forty seconds...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u75	No, Mr. Bogdano.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u76	It was a personal comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u77	It wasn't an ironic comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u78	It is addressed to our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u79	Please, it's not personal. If it were, I'd give you the floor, believe me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u80	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u81	I'll insist later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u82	To insist later. Now the President has given me the floor. Respect it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u83	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. There is no doubt that today the gaze of all the world is on the United States of America and of Joe Biden's oath. Especially after what happened in Capitol, today is of particular symbolic value and of course, particularly political importance. The attacks of populism and division have been defeated and the victory of democracy in the United States of America is a victory for all who believe in its values and principles around the world. We sincerely wish a good term and hope to open a new page on Greek-American relations. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting for the bill. The extension of our territorial waters to twelve miles in the Ionian Sea as a legal extension of Greek sovereignty is a positive development. Although all governments have so far avoided divisional expansion, the juncture requires it to safeguard our interests. This decision, however, is not complete. It should be accompanied by a simultaneous extension of the south and east of Crete. Non-expansion in these regions creates problems and creates problems now that exploratory ones seem to start. I don't think I need to expand and explain that any more. I think the reason is understandable and it is extremely serious. However, Prime Minister, it is your responsibility to put you on the issue and to explain to us why this preparation has not been completed so that we can also vote on this extension, now that it is time to do so. I would therefore ask you to put yourself here today in plenary and tell us clearly whether this extension is in your planning and, if so, give us a specific timetable. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is taking place at a very critical time in our relations with Turkey. I have said many times that Turkey has drawn up a new, new Ottoman strategy and is escalating aggressive action against our country. The Turkish memorandum, the Turkish law on research and rescue, the presentation at every international step of the illegal maps of the "Blue Country", the expressly formulated, of the most official Turkish lips, threats, not only to Greek sovereign rights but also to the territorial integrity of our country, by questioning the status of even inhabited Greek islands, is a coherent agenda for Turkish claims. These claims no Greek government, no Greek political power responsible is allowed to ignore or underestimate. On the contrary, all our policies need to be focused on effectively preventing this coherent Turkish review strategy. The decisions of the Greek Government are unthinkable, Prime Minister, to continue to be fragmentary and reflective reactions to Turkish actions. It needs a comprehensive plan, an up-to-date national line. We asked you, we caused you many times. You have refused it stubbornly and repeatedly, taking the responsibility of dealing with these critical foreign policy issues on your own. The government, once again on foreign policy issues, is moving without overall planning, without a fixed line, and is characterising your moves as procrastination in decisions and the front - back in their implementation. In a few days' time, exploratory contacts begin again. It is a positive development, as they can help degrade tension and perhaps pave the way for an agreed settlement of the issue of demarcation of the continent - AEZ, our only difference, always according to the Law of the Sea. The framework developed in 2002 and became even more specific since 2013 and was used until they were interrupted in 2016 is a favourable acquis, as it identifies the end object of the exploratory investigations. In our view this should not be lost. We must not confuse explorations with negotiation. The negotiation may only begin when the approaches on either side are clearly identified in the investigations on the one hand and on the other but also agreed on the resolution framework, which is exclusively the provisions of the International Maritime Law. Since International Maritime Law is mutually accepted as the framework for negotiation, then the negotiation will result, either in a demarcation agreement or, in the event of divergent positions and interpretations of international law, in a special agreement - a promise to refer to the demarcation to international justice in The Hague. However, the investigative contacts of everyone inside and outside this Chamber can be seen that they cannot be conducted in a climate of tension and continuing, even today, challenges. Nor can we allow Greece to repeat what, unfortunately, has been tolerated by the European Union in Cyprus, which, through the lukewarm condemnation of Turkish illegality in the Cyprus EEZ, has allowed permanent illegality. The government has so far not drawn up a coherent framework for international activation, along with a convincing national prevention strategy. The absence of planning on foreign policy and the defence of vital national interests may, Prime Minister, lead to adverse developments that are difficult to reverse. A characteristic example of the Turklibi pact. Greece in particular, in relation to this, with traditional friendly relations with the Libyan people, could have been a trustworthy mediator in the internal conflict, instead of running behind either side and ultimately excluded from international peace initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen, special attention is needed on our part, and that is why Turkey can come with second thoughts, with the intention of charging possible failure on the Greek side. That is why it is now clear from our side and that it should also be indicated by allies and partners in Turkey to sign the Montego Bay Treaty and to incorporate International Maritime Law into national law. Because this is the only basis for productive dialogue and good neighbourly relations. If there is this development, it will be very different for the course of the conversations. So our country must give great weight and pressure from our partners and our allies to Turkey. In any case, we have a chance to achieve a good development. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union, unfortunately, has, unfortunately, been awkward and hesitant toward Turkey's new strategy. She is caught in national settlements and is constantly postponing substantial sanctions that will force her to suspend her plans. The Greek side has a decisive role here, and it is clear that to date it has not pushed effectively in this direction. On the contrary, it also makes statements of great satisfaction at unfortunate times. In these circumstances it is therefore imperative that the Greek Government move with determination and efficiency in defending our rights by all diplomatic and deterrent means, with clear national lines and red lines. It is unfortunate that the statements on the red lines at the six nautical miles, which in practice were annulled by official lips our potential extension of sovereignty, and not just sovereign rights. So that the Greek Government does not allow for the creation of a fait accompli. Tolerance to aggression and aggression policy has exhausted its limits. In addition, the priority for our country is firstly the support - I said it before - of deterrent capacity. That is why we supported the Rafale Convention, although there were problems and we raised them and tabled amendments to improve it. That is why we insisted on increasing budget expenditure on national defence. You will recall that we had reacted to budget reductions by the New Democracy Government in 2020 and, respectively, we had a positive attitude following the increase in the funds for 2021. That is why we are also insisting on the use of the defence industry. The second important priority is the overall economic development, which we have presented a comprehensive proposal on how the resources of the Recovery Fund can be used and I refer to two key factors for our national strength. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Erdogan has expressed his willingness to meet Mr Mitsotakis. I repeated it last time we discussed it here. Then we were talking about the pandemic. I am not going to mention, Prime Minister, at all today at the pandemic, I think it was very comprehensive what we told you last time. We expect to see the moves from your government. So such a meeting - I return to the subject - could be useful at the right time and with proper preparation, so that it does not evolve into a fiasco, but with an inalienable condition that any provocative action and aggression by Turkey has stopped at the expense of our country. And I repeat that it must be agreed at the level of our country's political parties in this Chamber. Critical theme in relation to relations with Turkey of Greece and Europe is the Cyprus issue. It is attempting to relaunch the process of resolving the Cyprus problem. We always support the achievement of a fair and sustainable solution, in the logic of bizonal, bi-communal federation, respecting the relevant UN resolutions and the acquis communautaire of the European Union. We are, moreover, the party that put Cyprus into the European Union. It was a top moment in Helsinki in 1999, about twenty years ago, where Greece made the status of candidate for membership for Turkey, on the one hand, Cyprus will enter the European Union and on the other, on the other, that our bilateral dispute in demarcation will be resolved peacefully on the basis of International Law and the International Court of Justice of The Hague. A condition that the Government of New Democracy did not take advantage of in 2004 and allowed Turkey's accession talks to proceed without having to comply with the conditions set forth in law. So an important opportunity has been lost to convince Turkey and to regulate the continental shelve. Turkey and the new Turkish Cypriot leadership are now seeking to resolve the two states, namely the formal division of Cyprus with substantial legitimacy of the invasion and occupation. This cannot be accepted on our part, and we must resist all our forces, because the rings of Hellenism must not be broken, nor must the successive UN decisions be cancelled, nor must Europe be reconciled with the legitimacy of armed violence. Because the Cyprus problem is an international problem of invasion and occupation, and if it is accepted that violence produces at the end of the law, then the Cape of Halos is in danger of opening up to Europe itself, which has hypnotised many similar cases of problems. I therefore call on the government to clarify and clarify its attitude towards developments in Cyprus. Ladies and gentlemen, patriotism dares to say that it is a sign tabled by the Democratic Party. It is the PASOK seal that established the role and power of the country during the post-multiple process as a sovereign and proud national state that took international initiatives. We are the party, which brought national reconciliation and critical moments, has maintained the stiff national front. Because only when there is a hard national front can Greece emits determination and firmness, confidence and confidence. The Movement of Change, therefore, just on this question of genuine patriotism insists on and goes with responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. The President of the Greek Party Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin with today's speech and refer a little to what I have heard from the Greek Prime Minister. Before I refer to this, I will say something, Prime Minister. It's a strange thing. While most of the party leaders are absent, all of a sudden you were all together today. Why didn't you tell us you'd come and talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u87	I'd been briefed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u88	The rest of them knew what time they were coming to get here and they got here in time, two hours ago and an hour ago? I refer to Mr Varoufakis who is not here and Mr Koutsouba. We all need to hear from you. I really think your office can make a phone call so all parties leaders know and be here to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u89	I didn't know that either.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u90	Am I wrong, Mister of the JRC? Let's all talk and listen to you. The important thing is to listen to you, because you rule, we do not rule. What we'll say is another story. In any case, a poor man would say there was a gentlemen's deal to be the three of you here and say it. I'm here every day. I'll take it. I said bad option. I'm a good-for-nothing person, and I accept what you say. I've been here since this morning anyway. Every day I'm here. However, it is important that we all listen to you, neither on television, Mr Varoufakis nor Mr Koutsoubas. I am not their advocate, but at some point I think that this should be done on such important issues. Prime Minister, you said about Mr. Biden. I have a newspaper post in front of me. The map of Biden, do you know him? I imagine Mr. Dendias knows about it. You don't have to know everything. So that's the map. O Journalist of WASHINGTON POST. Published by the State Department. It was designed by mappers from the State Department under the instructions of Biden, when Obama was Prime Minister. I'll testify to him in the Minutes, because that's what Biden wants for the next few days. He's here. If you see, ladies and gentlemen, it is exactly the map of Biden in 2015 - please! - by the paper service of the State Department, which states that the 28th meridian is out. American newspaper post. I'm saying that because a lot of coincidences are bothering me, I'm very concerned about it. Because you too, from the 28th and the east, have left the field open to the Turkish claim. You said about Evros. That's what I want you to study, so we don't all invest in Biden in relation to what's coming. It's not good to invest. Let's just remember the Carter case with the Cyprus issue, which we said Carter was elected, and it's gonna be all right, and what we thought later. Anyway, you said about Evros. Why do you keep doing this in the New Democracy, Prime Minister? You didn't win war, they were naughty. Intangible gangs were, wasn't an army, intruders. It was a good police operation. The Greek Army was not involved. Don't be fooled. All the Members here are going out and you are saying that we have done 'Evros'. What did we do? A state that respects its borders and has put the police - and it has rightly done so, the Prime Minister's choice of not to engage the army - and we have removed the unarmed. If we are also afraid of unarmed people, then we have a problem as a country. Let's go to second, Prime Minister. You talked about equipment. We are the first to support you in this matter from the start. You're doing very well and we're with you. Since 2004 Greece has committed crimes in the exercise of armaments and has now come New Democracy to prevent these fifteen years running, but has no opportunity to plan seriously. Here is an issue that we need to look carefully at. What was wrong, Prime Minister? You didn't talk about our war industry, about HAB, about ELVO. You did not say that we are taking arms - because there is armaments diplomacy - and we are obliged to do like Turkey, which has a strategy. He's building weapons with cogeneration. That is, their helicopters are Italian, their engines are Italian. For tanks, they're looking for an engine now. Everything they're making is co-production, so they'll have the know-how. There's something you need to do with EAB and ELVO. I told you another time. There are too many programmes that are outstanding. Give a Undersecretary a mandate to look into the matter. You said about the fresh ones. As soon as the publication was published today - I will present it to you, Prime Minister - I said in this House: 'Don't take American freshmen. They are coastguard vessels, they are held by the United States port.’ Your ministers, Prime Minister, have come out, I will not say names and they say 'we will take these specifics'. Today's 10:00 in the morning, the United States Department of Defence refuses to pick up these frigates. He made an announcement today. We told you three months ago. The ministers were telling you other things. See how far ahead we are, Prime Minister. But why? Because we're studying. We do not serve the interests of other countries first and then the Greeks. Today, then, the Americans themselves refuse to pick up the frigates that you flag, your ministers. And I don't want to expose any Minister. I'm telling you this so you know. They used to go after us. You spoke abhorrently about Mr. Kotzia. Prime Minister, the Kotzia Politics follow the Prespecies. Mr Kotzias is deceiving Mr Kotzias, who in spite of something that you are doing today, and I am talking about these twelve nautical miles. But Mr Kotzias made the Prespecies, the Prespecies which you are exactly applying today, by smashing an entire people of New Democracy, the ordinary voters who believed you, especially the Macedonians, because that is where I come from, that you will change this appallingly insulting agreement. And today most of you national patriots of the New Democracy, good people MPs, defend this agreement when the Prime Minister flouts Kojia. Find the mistake, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Find the mistake. Prime Minister, you spoke of sanctions. Okay. I saw the Minister of Foreign Affairs - and Mrs Bakoyannis very well yesterday told Mr Maas - to speak to him precisely about things that would be a flagrant violation of international law, to speak to the main specific Minister of Turkey in a way that is in a vague diplomatic way, and Maas swallowing them. He chewed it. Maas chewed Turkey's challenges. What sanctions? This is where Mrs Bakoyannis responded, and she did well. Isn't that so, Mrs. Bakoyannis, Mr. Maas hasn't spoken? Prime Minister, you said you wanted a good neighbourhood dialogue. We all need a dialogue. Nobody in here wants war, clear things. We want peace, to prosper the Turks and the Greeks, to prosper all the peoples. Anyone who wants war is crazy, he's crazy. But when I go to dialogue I, Mr Scandalidis, but he has made me NAVTEX for the whole year - Turkey yesterday announced NAVTEX for the whole year - shows the other side that he has no mood for friendly conversation. It is in the mood of enforcing things against international law and blatantly violating international law, but above all our national sovereignty. What dialogue do you have with them? What dialogue do I have to make, ladies and gentlemen, when in Kalymnos our fishermen, Mr Loverdos, go fishing in the area, not in Imia or in Limnia, what do they call them, but wherever the Turks are harassing them? The Turkish navy, the navy, their port. How will I go into dialogue, since the intentions, actions and actions show the opposite? I want you to think about it a little bit. But what we would like, and what we want. We all want to live in heaven, but the earth, unfortunately, is a hell of a daily. If your neighbor doesn't want a good relationship, you can't want a good relationship together. She doesn't want it. The Prime Minister said, very well, about the media. He said they should stop being liberated by Turkish positions, opinions, statements and so on. Absolutely right. A phone call to SKAY! Mr Tsipras, a phone call to SKAI. He picks up and gets a phone himself, says: "Stop all day listening to Costidis what Erdogan says." It's just stuff. It's good to see you here, but we believe what we're talking about, not just to talk about it. And we agree with the Prime Minister's logic that tons of tons should come down from many, especially the propaganda of Turkish positions, which are claims that are refreshing, which are also made brainwashing to the Greek people. Prime Minister, I'll say sadly. I've said it another time. Where you're well and doing well, we'll be right next to you. But you're not being persuasive. A little parentheses. Half-truths, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you can't make politics. And I'll be back in a minute. I read you the statement, the letter of the Greek Prime Minister in relation to the vaccines, to tell the whole truth to the Greek people. Stop lying to him. That's a parenthesis. I read it to you this: While we are not going to make vaccination compulsory - the Prime Minister says - or prerequisites for traveling - Mr Tsipras - the people who have been vaccinated will be free to travel. His letter says that. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. We are told by the Prime Minister: While it is not a prerequisite, the people who have been vaccinated and are being vaccinated will travel. The others? What about the rest of them? And say it differently. Someone has a disease, Prime Minister, he can't do the vaccine. And there are many who have underlying illnesses. What are they gonna do? Are we gonna shut them down? They won't be able to go to see their child, I know, in another country, if it's in Germany? I have relatives in Germany. Infantry stays there, German permanent residents, my wife's parents. So, what's going to happen? Will he not be able to come to Greece if he doesn't make the vaccine, or will I not be able to go see him in Germany? Is that what you're telling me? That's what you're saying. I am reading your statement to you this morning. Disprove her. It's your letter. He says: "While we are not going to make vaccination compulsory or prerequisites to travel, people who have been vaccinated will be free to travel." What does the poet mean? Is it wrong to look at what you wrote? Correct it. Make it to understand. Is that compulsory? If I don't, will I travel? We should know. Also, gentlemen of the New Democracy, Prime Minister, I have been listening since the morning and since yesterday the Members of the New Democracy say that Greece has grown, Greece is growing. For the first time - a Member said, I heard him - Greece grew! We didn't take City too. We didn't take Constantinople. I'll answer you now. So tell us, after Greece grew up, in which country worldwide - a country - there is reduced influence. Because when you're given a chance to win ten, and you win four, it means you lose six. That is in foreign policy the logic and the argument. I want examples, a country in the world that did what Greece does. If you tell me one, I'll agree with you. Let me answer you: on the west side of our country in Ionian, we left Strofades and Diaponding Islands out. The Strofods have the shrimp, they have the looks they want the Italians want. The Corridor Islands themselves. So we raised Greece, but based on International Law, we had not raised it. Based on what we are entitled to, Greece is almost there. It's just things. Let's not lie. Egypt? Decreased influence. Why until Tinaro? Does he have swords, sharks down there? So until Tinaro? Below what's wrong with him? Sharks? What's wrong, whales and we can't go down there? So I tell you that the lymphs are good, we should go out and say that we raised the country and we did it! I wish you'd raised her, and whatever you've grown up with you are, we're voting for it. To God. And an inch of Greek land to be guaranteed by the government, we'll be with her. And a hundred inches of Greek land! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] But we leave another fifteen centimeters free of Turkish provocation. And according to the Biden map, which I will testify to in the Minutes, it means that from 2015-2016 history was organized, it is not something that is now happening. Because if the opposition were to blame the government today, it could be the story of Mr. Maniots of the PASOK to implement it. You didn't. Ask Yannis Maniotis what I spent in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 with him. Andreas Loverde was here. What was I going through with Yannis? Because Yannis said to me: "Help me in this matter, because we keep hearing about oil and EEZ and nobody knows what's going on here." Ask Yannis Maniotis how many times he has publicly stated that if I did not exist, he would not pass his bills. I was dating and helping him. And honor him. But the man isn't here. We're going to what the Greek government doesn't understand. To face a friend or an enemy, Prime Minister, you must know him. We don't know Turkey or we don't want to know it. Turkey, based on its doctrine, has specific doctrines. The first is the plan 'Turkish Semire'. What does that mean? If I ask a Member, he doesn't have to know about it. But Mr Denkias, as he knows, is obliged to know, I imagine our diplomats too. What does "Turkish Semester" mean? Strategic control of territory states by influence or military coercive. It starts from northern Syria, passes from northern Cyprus to Israel. He continues in the Republic of Cyprus, as the Turkish people call Turkish Cyprus. There are other plans. There is the 'South Cereal' project: Qatar, Somalia, Libya, Albania. "North-Western Hemisphere": Bulgaria, Skopje, Kosovo, ending in Albania. All of this is registered in Turkey's foreign ministry. I'm reading to you what the Turks themselves say, to know who we're dealing with. We're not dealing with a peaceful country. "East Cereals": Qatar, Kurdish Iraq, Azerbaijan, Nagorno Karabakh. Friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen, Turkey has a strategy and honour. Good for her because she has a plan. A life, whether kemals or extremes, or Erdogan the Ottoman, have a strategy that I welcome because for the sake of their homeland they do what they can. The point is, we don't have strategy. Today we are talking about a very important issue and we have never been informed by the Prime Minister of his thoughts, his views, what he wants to do. We came here to talk and I'm trying to be as diligent as I can in my reports. But Erdogan's last attempt to improve his relations with Israel, what does it prove, Mr. Karugale? That when the barking doesn't pass, it's trying to lick. That's the truth. He's trying to get back together and he's doing well. Israel must not be lost by a strategic ally. Never! Greece must never lose - and Mr Dendias does well - and the Prime Minister of Israel is a strategic partner. In order to make things clear, we do not say 'no' in dialogue. I'm saying this one more time. But a dialogue involving specific things. Dialogue with prerequisites on one side cannot exist. For example, I will say it simply to the Greeks who see what you are doing, Prime Minister: you go with this white glue in dialogue. White Requirement glue. Turkey comes in with ten claims. When this agreement is broken down - we will not find it, it is a given, I am sure we will not find it - and you leave the table, the Germans know what they will tell you. "But why did you guys leave? Why did you leave? But is that possible? Don't you want a dialogue? Do you not want to have a debate?" But they're asking. Yeah, they're asking. Ask for you, too, as a New Democracy. I've said it a thousand times. I will submit our seventeen complaints to the Prime Minister, which, under International Law, may make Turkey. Maybe! Now, listen to us, so we know what we're talking about. Mr. Dendias made a very good statement yesterday, but a half. Mr. Dendia, you said about Imbros and Tenedo. That's very good. You went to make a cyclical move, a statement which, however, was half. On the basis of the Treaty of Lausanne, Imbros and Tenedos have a self-employed place, Mr. Dendia. That's what you should say. They must have their own police, Greek, on the basis of the Treaty of Lausanne. I'll give you the article, I have it here in front of me. It's Article 14 of the Treaty of Lausanne. I'll testify for the Minutes. So I was expecting the Greek Foreign Minister - who said so well - to say that on the basis of the Treaty of Lausanne, Imbros and Tenedos have the self-employed. It says so. Do you want me to read it to you? "Imprus and Tenedos islands, you remain under the Turkish rule, will enjoy a special administrative organisation, consisting of local elements and providing every guarantee to the indigenous non-Muslim population, as regards local self-government and the protection of individuals and goods. The order will be maintained by police recruited by the indigenous population.’ Then 99.99% in Imbros and Tenedo were Greek. So that's what you had to say. And what you said is good. For the first time, they heard - talk about it all - but do five steps further. It's not bad. Five paces. Also, the announcement - and I am telling you, Mr. Dendia - is disturbing that we do not understand - which says about Imbro and Tenedo was Thrace! So, then, the target of the Turks is our Thrace, our brothers Muslims. Their target! So Turkey speaks. And when, Prime Minister, he says all this, how are you going to investigative? How do we go to exploratory? Who did we put to? I said that and the President reacted. So let me tell you, Mr Tasoula, because you are only used to correct me from the Presidents when they speak, Mr Apostolidis is a retired Ambassador, a member of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of George Papandreou, Mr. Pagalou - grey Imia, Mr. Tasula - former Commander of the EUPM at the Prime Minister's Prime Minister. He had a seat on Alpha Bank, on the board of directors, ladies and gentlemen, with the responsibility of investing in Turkey. That's what his CV says. The man who with Ocalan failed, the government decided to put him in the ombudsman. Let's talk about it. What did the same man say, Mr. Tsipras, a while ago? What did he say? "Davutoglou has a point for EOZ Greece - Egypt." That's what they sent. If you don't believe it's in "KATHMERINI", January 4th. We're sending the man who says he's right to negotiate. The government sends him. How does he send him? Tell us about it. "Davutoglu warned us not to demarcate EEZ with Egypt." Apostolid's statements. Let's go to the next: "Investigators do not deal with continental negotiations, as everyone thinks." Statement to SKAI on the New Democracy channel. The friendly one! ‘These are preliminary topics. Main preliminary... Don't laugh, Mrs. Gennamas. You didn't even come by. Even from Poseidon you cannot go to SKAI.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u91	It's coming out, it's coming out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u92	When? No, Mrs. Gennamas doesn't come out. Once in April. You've been dating every two years once. It's the sympathies they have. What can we do? That's not bad. They like them. Of course, the ERR is saying other things, Mr. Tsipras. Well, you're toast, Mr. Tsipras. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Whenever they want to wash, they put one MP, two pro-government journalists, and one from SYRIZA, and the land becomes a midwife. One to three. It is the democracy of SKAI. Mr. Apostolidis says, "Mrs. Preparatory...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u93	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u94	You've had a show too, sir, before. They kicked you out of there, too. ‘The range of territorial waters...’. Here's what Mr. Apostolidis says to SKAI about it. ‘Sea zones as a term are widely used’. What the government says. ‘Egyalitis zone - territorial waters -, border zone, continental shelf, exclusive economic zone’. I mean, you and Apostolidis are talking about sea zones. No, Prime Minister, you're not going to investigate this. You're not going. Take Apostolidis out. If he's told or hasn't told them, there's been video recordings in articles. It can't be done! Get him out. I won't tell for Maas, the sanctions, for friends. But I'll say something else. What would I do, Prime Minister. I want you to answer me. Of course, the Minister of National Defence is responsible. Prime Minister, are the Americans asking for twenty other bases in Greece, yes or no? The Minister of Foreign Affairs is next door. I ask him to answer me here: is there an American request to create new bases? I'm asking. What are we going to do? Let's give them up. You don't understand, I'm with you. We're friends with the Americans while they're friends with us. But, anyway, we should give. But what do we get? It's important. We don't get anything. We're taking a hit on the back and go to good. Shall we give more bases? They have five to six. How many can we do with them? Shall we make them sixteen? Shall we make 20 of them? So let the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for National Defence say how many bases the Americans demand - that is news! - and how much does the government intend to give and what will it get? This is where I want you. Here! From a step of the House. Also, why have you 'emptied' France, Prime Minister? It is the only country that could - and Mr Tsipras also quite rightly said - help us because of its own interests. The French didn't love us. They have huge interests in Africa confronting Turkey, they have huge interests in the Eastern Mediterranean confronting Turkey and they are our country's strategic partner against Turkey. Why did we sell them? You called them Belharra. You went to get the junk of the Americans, which the Americans themselves do not accept. You were saying that, take Rafale. Well done, with you, you need to take Rafale. But the defensive agreement why wasn't it signed? Why should we only have a defence agreement with other countries and not with France, which has common interests with our country? Prime Minister, Foreign Minister, did you read the statement of commander of the Pakistani Air Force? Did you read what Mr. Khan said? It's Enver Han. He is the commander of Pakistan's Air Force, Turkey's strategic partner. Sisters countries. What would I do as Prime Minister, Mr. Dendia? Any Pakistani who entered my country without papers, without any identities, without passports, who are potentially - I say - a lever of Erdogan, would leave behind. It's over! I was gonna deport him. I leave the statement of the Commander of the Air Force, their captain. I would like to say this: we should take care of the Patriarch a little. I want to take care of the Patriarch a little, in the sense that man is under a strange regime. I have a specific opinion on how to function, but we made a mistake. We've been in Russia's eye many times. One of the deportations from SYRIZA, one of the great Patriarch of Ukraine, which the Patriarch did the wrong thing, in my view, should not have been involved at all, should have been a universal meeting and decided - one with the embargo, Prime Minister. Mr. Dendias has attempted, from what I've learned, to make a bridge with the Russians with whom this bridge had been cut off. Find a way with Russia, which is now a hostile country with Greece, because we first attacked her with the embargo and the rest we did, the stupid ones, Mr. Tsipras. You don't do deportations. You raise a phone call as Prime Minister and tell them "brand them and bring others" if they were indeed agents of whatever interests. You were wrong there. In conclusion, I will state, ladies and gentlemen, what the Greek solution wants to go to dialogue. We are not saying 'no'. Greek requests: Firstly, expansion of territorial waters in the maritime miles in the Aegean Sea, as in the Ionian Sea and everywhere. International law provides for that. Secondly, recognition of all Greek EEZ and continental shelf in the Aegean and the Mediterranean. International law provides for that. We are not taking a step behind international law or forward. Withdrawal of the occupied troops from Cyprus. There are a large number of UN resolutions. That's how you're going to dialogue. Application of the Treaty of Lausanne for Imbros and Tenedo. Return of heirs and property. Self-sufficient, resident police. Fifth, compensation and return to Istanbul of the expelled Greeks. They're 100 thousand souls. Their inheritances are also a matter of law enforcement. Return to the status of the Church of all the churches in Turkey, which have been turned into mosques and allow them to function freely. It's withdrawn from International Law. Establishment of Agia Sophia as a church of the Ecumenical Patriarchate, historical and fair request. To stop the Patriarch being an exclusive Turkish citizen. Hold that. It applies to the Catholic Church. We can do it, too. Dissolve the Aegean army, which threatens the Greek islands, along with the airports and the bases for missile launch. It is an elementary precaution to ensure peace. Why do we put that on? Because the Turks are asking for the demilitarisation of the islands. You put their dissolution on the other side. Dissolve the Turkish cargo fleet, which is aimed only at getting off the Greek fleet. Create a demilitarised zone of five hundred kilometres from the Greek sea, border in the Aegean Sea. Recognition by Turkey of the Pontius Genocide. It has been passed by our House. Recognition of Armenian Genocide, for the same reason, International Law. Recognition of the genocide of the Greeks in Asia Minor. Compensation and reimbursement of the heirs. I'm a small lady, Mr. Scandalides, just like you. My grandfather left there and left about a thousand acres so, a thousand five hundred acres in Iconium, Prussa. That's where we lived. This fortune we never got it back. We were thrown away a piece of bread in Greece - the homeland didn't have any money - and the people from zero started again. That is what we have to claim. We can claim them. There are international courts. Recognition of Assyrian Genocide. Recognition of the Gezidi-Alevites Genocide, for the same reason. The end of the Kurd Genocide. I told you seventeen prerequisites. That's what I'd go with. Since Turkey's in the investigations is going with other things, I'd go with them. I will present them in the Minutes, so that there will be a list of what the Greek Solution said about the future and what the government has done now. These seventeen requests will also be judged by the history of the future. In conclusion, Prime Minister, I will tell you this: I liked what you did with the two forty instalments. Good for you! I read it in the 'REAL NEWS' that you are considering it for March for business. I'm telling you again. The two forty-five instalments are breathtaking for the Greek economy, in all businesses over the last fifteen to twenty years. Do it! You'll get money. I'm telling you again. Oak if you're a owl than you don't have. But if you do two hundred forty doses, you can take a few, and you can gather a lot, too much, and it can be done! Let me tell you one more thing, Prime Minister, since I talked to the leaders. The leaders, Prime Minister - because all the channels are indirectly controlled by you, a lot of money, my child, Mr. Tsipras, Mrs. Gennimata, Mr. Koutsouba, Mr. Varoufakis, where and where we are being thrown out, the MPs do not exist anyway - are not the ones who pay to hear. Oh, no! It is the leaders who are heard by their actions. Remember that, Prime Minister, because you are a new Prime Minister and the results of the economy will be found in front of us, ladies and gentlemen. The primary deficit was 18.2 billion. The budget was 24 billion, a deficit of 15% of GDP. So we drove in 2009 to the Memorandum! We had 127% debt in 2009. Now we have 227%! 2009 was 15 Greek private debt, today is 150%! The economy doesn't come out, the economy doesn't come out! And here - I stress - we will have huge problems. I would also like to make a complaint, Prime Minister, because you have many friendly means. I'm not saying they're taking me out. They don't get me out anyway, it's okay. They will be judged by the historian of the future. But I'd like them not to lie. You have Mr Rapt of 'iefimerida.gr'. It's yours, New Democracy, it's got a lot of money from "Home House" and money's in the pockets! Here's what man does - yes, Mrs. Gennamas, it's a disgrace - and see what he wrote, Prime Minister, on the first day. "Incredible conspiracy theories in the House. The vaccine gives birth to children without extremities.” I never said that in here. That became a full tribute, Prime Minister! If this is called 'demographic', cut Rapt's sewage because it is fed with money, you are wrong, Prime Minister. Because my daughter sees it, too, and my daughter's friend sees it. I never said that. That thing's called journalism! So enjoy every Raptus who cuts and sews news, just because he wants to expose people and consciences. Shame on everyone! And also, the media, Mrs. Gennimata, Mr. Tsipras, the Greeks, instead of controlling the government on behalf of people, citizens, control people for the government! Shame on you! Shame on all of us to tolerate it! This media story has to stop. They'll say what really happens and let's not get us out. But don't lie. Because the lie has short feet, as Florakis was saying. I repeat, Prime Minister, that all the good you do will be with you. As good as home, we will be with you, whatever government and SYRIZA etc. Whatever good happens, we'll be right next to you. But, whatever is bad we will tell you, so that you can change it in the course because - unfortunately or fortunately - you are the Prime Minister of the country and you are the Prime Minister of all the Greeks. What we ask of the Greeks is a four-year, four-year-old party to rule, because as a Greek solution we are, unfortunately or fortunately, the only solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u95	Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Vellopoulou, as far as I understand your desire to meet your mother-in-law, it may be so intense that you can overcome your inhibitions to the vaccine!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u97	I love my mother-in-law! You love her, too, I imagine!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u98	I say this because the Greek request for a European vaccination certificate must in no case be identical to the concept of a health passport. Today we are talking about all kinds of restrictions, with initiatives by Member States. Each Member State shall lay down different terms and conditions for movements within the European Union. However, one thing is certain: once we have a significant number of our fellow European citizens who have been vaccinated, the production of such a single European proof of vaccination will facilitate travel. It will facilitate them, because - you can be absolutely certain - that restrictions of another kind may apply to those who have not been vaccinated. That is the reality we want to face. This will be for the benefit of the Greek economy, for the benefit of Greek tourism. That is why this effort is also based on a global forum related to the travel market, such as the 'IATA'. I now come to the issues on which the political leaders have been placed, and I must tell you that I did not intend to speak. However, I have heard some comments, which need to be answered briefly. I still want today to be a day of celebration for Parliament, because - in a persuasive sense of what Mr Velopoulos said - the truth cannot be called into question. For the first time since 1947 Greece has grown. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It exercises its right to extend the territorial waters to the Ionian Sea, and under normal circumstances we should place greater emphasis on this incident and, at least in today's sitting, to limit the tone of criticism, so that we do not - I am not talking about you, Mr Velopoulos, I am referring to Mr Tsipras and Mrs Gennimata - reduce the importance of this decision. Because if this decision were so self-evident, the question is about 'because it hadn't happened for so many years'. In fact, for Mr. Tsipras, sometimes you give me the impression that you are hunted by the ghost of your unfulfilled expectations. And I'm explaining. You referred to what happened in 2018 and I would like to freshen up your memory, but I would also remind the Greek Parliament of the facts. It was Mr Kotzias who, just before leaving the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, recommended the extension of territorial waters by a presiding decree, alleging - something we could not then confirm - that he had also made an important preparation in order for this political decision to be implemented. Indeed, it is true that in 2018, two years ago, there were views in the New Democracy too, as to whether this extension at that time - I am referring to an extension of territorial waters, which would have been before the delimitation of an Exclusive Economic Zone - would have been beneficial. Personally, I did not see you pulling some of my own statements on this matter, because I personally did not have a position on this matter because I understood its complexity. So the question here comes from what happened after Mr Kotzia left. Mr. Kotzias in his book, which was recently released - and would have an interest in placing on it, at the bottom he was a very close associate and, to the extent that you are so pleased about the signing of the Prespecies Agreement, it means that for at least a political partner was also a political partner on foreign policy issues - he writes: "After my resignation in the middle of October 2018, Tsipras did behind" - Tsipras did back! - "his partners probably scared him, claiming that such a move would not like the Turks." Is that accurate or not? You need to be placed, because the facts probably confirm what Mr Kotzias says. You have had plenty of time if the expansion of the territorial waters towards the west was your decision to implement it. In our view, this decision had to be implemented through the procedure we are adopting today, by a Presidential Decree which would first close the bays and set base lines and then, by means of a vote by the National Delegation of the relevant law, even by roll-call vote. Why didn't you, Mr. Tsipras? Why didn't you? Is it true what Mr Kotzias says that you feared possible reactions or were there any other reason? In any case, I think it is very unfair to criticise a government which has taken this initiative, when you have had the opportunity to do so, and for reasons that I imagine you will want to clarify at some point, you have finally chosen to pursue the policy of creative inertia. You have also made us feel less strongly critical of a lack of strategy, lack of direction, lack of results in foreign policy in the eighteen months that we have the responsibility of the government of the country. So I would again like to make a very brief overview of what Greek foreign policy has achieved during this period and then, I am glad to put them in the balance and compare what we have achieved with what you have achieved. So we say: two agreements delimiting an exclusive economic zone, one with Italy, one with Egypt. For the first time the country has proved in practice that it can reach such agreements with neighbouring countries. We did it, you didn't do it. You had the opportunity, you did not, neither did you, the agreement with Italy nor the agreement with Egypt. We made an agreement at the outset with Albania on the settlement of the outstandingity that exists since 2009-2010, for the signature of an Exclusive Economic Zone after the withdrawal of Albania - the known history - but, I stress - Greece has extended its territorial waters, so it significantly reduces the scope of our dispute in delimiting the exclusive zone. We have agreed in principle with Albania, Mr. Dendias and his counterpart, and I personally with Mr. Rama that we will be able to sign a promise, to go to an international judicial body to resolve this pending matter. We therefore prove to everyone that, in cases where we cannot resolve our disputes by signing a demarcation agreement, we can at least agree that we disagree and appeal to an international court. You had - I imagine - the possibility of doing so and you didn't. What else did we do this time? Strengthen all the grid of agreements, the alliances of the country, following initiatives taken by all Greek governments, strengthen the relationship with Israel, the relationship with Egypt, invest in the tripartite patterns. You did so too, they have been strengthened over our days, but we have also had new alliances with important strategic players, who, unfortunately, had neglected Greek foreign policy, such as Saudi Arabia and especially the United Arab Emirates. As far as our relations with the United States are concerned, you said something that is completely - but completely! - wrong. You said that after my visit to Washington you did not see any effect on the change in the attitude of the United States towards Turkey, which supports Greek interests. Really? Really? We may have had too many dissenting styles, worldview - I will then come to that - with the outgoing President Trump. You cannot doubt, however, that the statements made by the State Department and by the US Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Pompeo, have never been as supportive of Greek positions as in the last six months of last year. And that obviously did not happen at random, as a result of an active diplomatic pressure exerted in Washington, D.C., which ended up - Mr Tsipras! - and the imposition of sanctions. Penalties were unilaterally imposed by the US Government, regardless of the framework agreed at Congress for sanctions which will be assimilated by the budget vote. These are tangible results of an active foreign policy. You referred to the potential strategic alliance with France and the question of freshmen and negotiations to strengthen the navy. You, Mr Tsipras, not a defensive agreement with France, did not even bring us any spare parts for the Mirazs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u99	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u100	It's all right! Don't be so nervous!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u101	Please, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u102	Hey, it's not true, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u103	You know it well! You know them very well! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And in any case, I do not understand, should we at the moment have to make a major, perhaps the most important market that the Greek Government will make at the level of weapon systems, not to go through competitive offers once we have to build new ships? Is that what you're suggesting? Is that what we had to do? We shouldn't have looked, asked, asked, see what's best...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u104	The Rafale...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u105	Rafale is a different case because Rafale is used aircraft, which replace Miraz 2000-5 and that you should know!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u106	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u107	So if you're suggesting this, please say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u108	It was a direct assignment to the private companies!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u109	We're talking about something that was voted almost unanimously now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u110	I wonder if you had any reservations, why did you vote for them? Didn't you vote for them? Stop bilingualism and hypocrisy! Did you vote for them, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u111	We need to know why we're talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u112	So you voted for the Rafale and you did well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u113	Mr Ragossi, you have no say!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u114	And you did well to vote for them, because we managed very quickly to equip the Hellenic Air Force significantly, replacing older aircraft and going to the only supplier who could provide us with this very solution. Now, as regards what you have done in the years that you have been in opposition, I think that to a large extent it has been decided by the Greek people if the status of the country was really strengthened, if the Greek borders were guarded, if Greece was a credible interlocutor in Europe, at the same time that it was still binding in the third memorandum, for which you were ultimately a culprit. But I think that's all in the past right now. Greek citizens have reached their conclusions, especially on foreign policy issues for who can manage them with greater credibility and greater responsibility. I cannot, however, close my position, leaving an unanswered phrase that you said, trying to make a parallelion, among the incidents that took place in Capitol and some demonstrations that took place outside the Greek Parliament on the occasion of the vote on the Prespecies Agreement, on which I will once again tell you that too many times from the Step of the House I said clearly that we disagree with this agreement, but once and for all, we are obliged to implement it. We were entirely consistent with what we said and that is what we are doing right now. You said, however, that the similarity with what was happening in Capitol was about those demonstrations that had indeed enough graphical elements and perhaps some extreme right entrenched enthusiasm. Really, is that the resemblance? Did that remind you of what happened at the Capitol? Why did he remind me of anything else? Because when we saw the scenes in Capitol, no one in Greek society remembered in 2018, but in 2011, when the 'top' and the 'bottom square' joined a delicacy of questioning urban democracy by dividing, with vitriol, with hangings, with slogans of burning Parliament and with you on the front line as a 'cross', since you like these proportions, of the antisystemic movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, I would like the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u116	You and your party were the great beneficiaries of the division of Greek society, you "carried" precisely this wave not only of populism, but of the toxic reason, of the normalization of violence and of the way in which your political opponents were to be dismantled. The "top" and the "bottom square" were politically united in 2015 and brought you to power and therefore ruled with Mr. Kammenos, without any difficulty at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u117	She has asked for the floor for Mrs Papayannakis' right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u119	I didn't notice. You asked for a reply, Mr. Tsipras?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u120	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Tsipras is entitled to a second. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, I imagine that this is where I will speak with the mask, because I do not know if it is absolutely safe to get it out. Mr Mitsotakis, obviously for the time economy I will not answer what you have said, I will not open up a big debate on armaments. However, it is a debate that will take place next time because, indeed, I see that you are making choices that will bring these issues to a debate in the House. All I want to tell you about armaments is that you delivered us - your resignation, not you - a country bankrupt with very few possibilities to be able to sustain the armed systems of the Greek Armed Forces. Nevertheless, it is worth asking people who are in your government today, then they were in the leadership of the Weapons, whether our Government did or did not do what we had to support the weapon systems, so that we could have the war of the Armed Forces ready, their preparation and deterrent. But I come to someone who, in my view, I think it is crucial for them to be answered. First of all, I was appalled at what you said in my comment on the negative statements of almost all the top officials of the New Democracy, in relation to our declared intention to move forward in the extension of the territorial waters to the Ionian Sea by law, as I said almost the first time I took up as Prime Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at that time, if you remember, in a choice of special purpose, if you wish, regarding the implementation and adoption of the Prespecies Agreement. All your first-class executives were across the street. And you say now 'I didn't say it'. And that makes me a scary impression. You separate your position very easily from your sector leaders. You separate yourself from the members of your party, as if you were not the President of the Party at that time or consciously let them say it while you had another view. And I fear that when the Prime Minister from Stepma says so, from the prime minister for his, who are ministers today, most of them will do so in the future, not for his members, but for his ministers. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It will let them be exposed with statements, whether for strategies or for choices, which know they are not based, have no backing, and at the last minute he will go out and say "I didn't say it, I said other things". This is not a leading position not a Prime Minister but a party leader who has barely taken 3% and has entered the House. And please, Mr. Mitsotakis, take your responsibilities at last. I don't know if you realize that, but you can't say such things. I repeat, from the position of Prime Minister, you cannot say such things. And I will restore the truth because it has a historical value. When, Mr Mitsotakis, I also took over from the Foreign Affairs Minister, I was informed by Mr Kotzias of a preparation that existed. I knew, of course, because we had talked, it was our strategy. I am referring to the preparation for the closure of the tricks and the expansion of the territorial waters in the Ionian Sea, a preparation on which your own government has also supported to present the Presidential Decree, which admitted yesterday in his speech, if I am not mistaken, and Mr Denkias. So when I was informed that he has a presiding decree in place, I had to make a statement on that. However, as I had to pay tribute to the statements made at the time of delivery, I praised his work with absolute honesty and the work, specifically, on the preparation of all those necessary procedures for the extension to the west of the twelve nautical miles.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u123	And what did you do next?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u124	I'll tell you what I did next, Mr. Mitsotakis, as I'll tell you what you did next. I have been informed, as I imagine the current Minister for Foreign Affairs does, and it must be done by all the heads of diplomacy, who are in this position, by diplomats in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as by the people who are aware of the legal and interpretation of the Constitution. I have been informed that Article 27 of the Constitution, if I am not mistaken, expressly provides that enlargement to the limits of the territory can only take place after the adoption of a law, and even one hundred and fifty Members of Parliament. I was also informed that no presidential decree...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u125	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u126	You want to say why. You'll tell us later why, if you have objections to this. I have also been informed that no Presidential Decree can go any further, because it is a regulatory provision and must go through the First Chamber of the Council of State, and must go through a cabinet with regard to the extension of territory and then go to the President of the Republic. Therefore, a few days later, I came out with responsibility and announced that this political choice would proceed by law and I instructed the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs then, Mr Katrugalos, to prepare the relevant law. And indeed the Deputy Minister was preparing the law and I asked him to go to the National Foreign Policy Council and inform the parties about this law. Do you know what the answer was, which he then received from the spokesman of the New Democracy at the ETUC, Mr Kumucaco? Don't dare and bring it in and commit the country in an election period. That was the answer and was the end of February 2019. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I come to the point now, because the point is that it is important. Such political interventions and initiatives, Mr Mitsotakis, which are of major importance for our foreign policy and for the strategy of the country, also require a climate, which is self-evident, I would say, of political understanding, of unity and of unity. The self-evident thing, I blame you for not giving the SYRIZA Government the responsibility and choice. Two watermelons in a armpits obviously don't fit! So when we had to come to an agreement and in agreement with the military opposition - as we are doing here today despite the enormous disagreements we have on a number of issues, but we vote - instead of giving this consensus, you would go out with statements of provocative right and left and say 'Don't dare bring it, because you are divising the country'. You didn't say that, actually, just you. I also remember his other extremely well-trained articles on foreign policy, Mr Venizelos, which at the time represented the 'BIMA' Change Movement, 'KATHMERINA', which created a toxic climate for an issue that should have been solved by a fundamental understanding between the political forces. That's what you did, and that's why I blame you, Mr. Mitsotakis. I accuse you of consciously doing so. And today you're just going out to tell us "I didn't say it. They were called by my executives." So when we came out of a very difficult political system adventure, which was the vote on the Prespecies Agreement, which you are not only here today, but also honour, against statements by your officials, by turning 180 degrees, imagine how difficult it was for a government to want and insist on a hundred and fifty-one votes. But that was also what we were determined to do, because it was right for the country in a time, which we had chosen to be outside the election climate at the time, as the forthcoming European elections were. And I close with an issue, which, in my opinion, has an interest, Mr Mitsotakis. You said that I was wrong to compare the episodes in Capitol with what happened here, with the organised entry plan in plenary - it is here, if I am not mistaken, and then President Nikos Voutsis, who also knows details about this organized project - to hang the traitors who would vote for the agreement. I will tell you this, Mr Mitsotakis: You said it is not 2018, but it is 2011. The common feature of the episodes in Capitol with what happened outside the Greek Parliament in 2018- was Generis of 2019, if I'm not mistaken...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u127	Twice, in 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u128	And in 2018 and 2019, twice. So the common point of the Capitol with its attempt to enter Parliament during the debate or vote on the Prespecies Agreement is that far-right people were there, and far-right were here, Mr Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The common point of the top square of 2011 with the episodes in 2018 and 2019 outside the Parliament is that in both cases your party, Mr Mitsotakis, New Democracy, was at the rallys. In 2011, Mr Samaras was your president, if I am not mistaken, and the New Democracy then towards the Government of Giorgos Papandreou had the attitude not only of Zappeion - that is a political position, programmed - but of supporting those rallys. So, Mr. Mitsotakis, don't move our finger. Don't make us the innocent of blood. Unless for everything, "I didn't say it. Our executives said it, and I'm out of cedar!" These are the common points, Mr Mitsotakis, and it is good to talk about them and remember them sometimes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u129	The President-in-Office has the floor for his reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u130	For two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u131	Here, Prime Minister, you have the floor for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u132	If I understood what you said, Mr Tsipras, when you took over from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, then the officials informed you of what the Constitution says - that the extension of territorial waters should indeed be done by law, but this required a prerequisite for a presidential decree, which would close and set basic lines. The question is very specific: have you ever sent such a presidential decree to the Council of State? Did you do the preparation?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u133	In the law...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u134	But you said something else. You said: “We didn’t have time. It was a pre-election period. The opposition disagreed." You said in other words - I understand that for such an important national initiative, there had to be the consensus of the opposition, otherwise you could not do so. Isn't that what you said? That's what I understood. I imagine that other colleagues have understood that. So I have two questions on this. The first is that if you thought it was so important, why didn't you contact me directly - I imagine that for this we had the opportunity, we had spoken several times - to ask for the support of Officer Opposition? You never did! However, the most interesting thing is: why did you not seek this consensus for the Presidencies Agreement? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In other words, the Prespecies Agreement would pass it and you would appear as the great proto-proto-Architector of Balkan foreign policy, where about in your mind was an opportunity to divide New Democracy. And when you realized that this project didn't come out politically, you decided to go on your own. I understood well, therefore, that in the Prespecies Agreement on a much more sensitive national issue as to the way the Greek society lived, you chose to go on your own, but on the extension of the territorial waters you did not go, because the conditions were not guaranteed because we were supposedly in a pre-election period. As far as I know, you had many months at your disposal before you decided to go to elections after your huge failure in the European elections in 2019. In any case, there is still the straightforward position of Mr Kotzia that you have chosen not to do so, because you feared not the reactions of Officer Response, but the reactions of Turkey. I say all this because as we move forward it is good to have a full historical picture of reality. And the reality and history will write that foreign policy alone cannot be done with intentions. The intentions are not enough. You were the Minister yourself - the Prime Minister comes and takes over the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - and yet you did not go any further. And this government should have come to finish this loose end. I imagine that this also forms part of the total chapter that characterises your governance "We wanted, but what should we do? And here we are not there."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u137	She has asked for the floor for her dentistry as President of the Change Movement. Here, Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you have come and told us today that you have raised Greece and wondered why no other government has done so to date. I suggest that you, because we have shown very seriousness and responsibility in this Chamber in particular in national matters, to lower a little tons, because we all know in and out of this Chamber that it has never been a choice by the Greek governments to date that our territorial waters have been expanded, and that this is precisely because the conditions have changed, because the conditions have been read lately by your Government and we have had to move on with this option that we are, indeed, all of us support because we all understand in this Chamber that they support our national interests. So I would say that you better read the climate that exists from all the political forces and bring down a little tons of triumph. You did indeed owe us that we have raised the tons of the opposition and that ultimately reduces the importance of what is being voted on in this Chamber today. Unfortunately, I would like to tell you, Prime Minister, that you alone are reducing the importance of this choice, because you are not making it complete. It is not enough that you have had to react with delay, as I told you before, but while you have the opportunity, since there is agreement with Egypt, to have brought us today an integrated arrangement concerning both the region around Crete and the Egyptian agreement, you do not do so. You're stalling and you're in front of you at the beginning of the investigations. So I asked you very carefully if you intend to take the next step and if there is a specific timetable ahead of the investigatives. You chose not to answer. But the question remains at the table. I have raised you with the very serious issue, which concerns the pressure that must be put on Turkey to finally accept within it to incorporate the Law of the Sea so that there can be a serious basis for the debate, so that we can end up with claims - because the conditions exist - and not to charge our country - because there is this risk in Turkey's planning - a failure of these talks. That's not why you told me anything. Perhaps ten months later, as you have done for the pandemic, think, ferment all of our proposals and come back to tell us that we are right and we have reprocessed proposals for national issues as well. You have also given us no answer on what your attitude is and how you are going to deal with the issues that are being opened before us in connection with the settlement of the Cyprus issue. We expect that's why we're waiting to see what you're doing. Finally, I want to close down with this. The demagogy and populism of 2011 with the antimemorandum shook up this entire wave of anger and the country paid it too expensive. They then took the lead in powers such as the New Democracy and SYRIZA. You cannot make criticism today if you do not make self-criticism, Prime Minister. We should all ask ourselves today, especially as we are called upon to deal with the pandemic, where the country would be, if there were no PASOK government putting back and keeping that country away from bankruptcy and exit from Europe and the euro area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u139	Mr Velopoulos has also asked for the floor for a short leniency, as I understand it. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, I expected you to be informed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of National Defence to tell us about what I asked about the bases. Didn't you tell us: Is this the case? They're right next to you. You can also ask Mr. Panayotopoulos. You also did not answer me if you were satisfied with the statements made by Apostolidis. I didn't just come here to say my opinion and go. Say to me: Are you satisfied with the views of Apostolidis, what he said to "Kathimerini" and "Skai"? That's to know who we're dealing with, because I believe you. I believe that what Mr Dendias said, no Prime Minister will discuss anything more, and that is the right thing to do. But answer us: How do you want a guy, a man, a former ambassador, who says other things than you, to represent our country? There's a contradiction. I also see a party hypocrisy in here, because even as we agree today we find ourselves disagreeing and confronting our party clientele. Two things: If Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras, the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff Response, really want to shed light on unknown aspects of Skopje, the President of Parliament has had an examination in his drawer for months. Let's bring her here, see what happened with Kotzia, and why the government was raped then to sign the treacherous Prespecies Agreement, see what happened. So let's leave yesterday. I'm really saying this because you're hypocritically looking for what happened in 2010 and 2011. I was here, too, Mr Tsipras, and in 2011 and later, but what I see in here is that we are addressing the future of the country in terms of the past. So let us leave the past, let us look at the next generations and not the percentages in the next elections. I close by saying this: we have a society, Prime Minister, which is very narrow. We have a society that is full of misery. Let's give them a little smile. Let us look at and make proposals for the economy and implement them. We've done you too many. But I also expect your government not to live outside society. Let's leave the flaws between SYRIZA and the New Democracy, because, if you want the reality, I'll tell you now. You both agree that you should not open the Prespecies Agreement file, because you both have guilt for the crime done. So open up, Prime Minister, to see what happens. And one last thing: Prime Minister, Treasury, fishing zone. It's ending in March. From that point on, we'll pay fines. Will you make the fishing zones, Prime Minister, yes or no, so that the story can end? Because the end date is March 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u141	After completing the position of Prime Minister and Heads, we return to the stream of discussion. It has asked for the floor, as Mrs Papayannakis, a Member of the Communist Party's MEP. Then there's Mr. Dritsa, and then Mr. Voloudakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u143	I've told you, Mr. Bogdano, that there is no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, there is. He put me somewhere where I'm not. I'd like just for the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u145	No, it doesn't mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u146	...to be given the opportunity to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u147	Listen to me, Mr. Bogdano, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u148	It's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u149	Listen, please. I haven't given you the floor. You must understand, because you are a new Member, that it is not personal with what we disagree. It's not enough to argue with anything to raise a personal matter. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u150	It's about where I was.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u151	So there's no personal matter. It's over. You don't have the floor. Come on, Mrs. Papariga, take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u152	Yeah, but I can't talk to Bogdan's face.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u153	You have no say, Mr Bogdano. I have the right to judge whether it's personal. I've explained that there is no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u154	I have the right to protest! It's personal!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u155	You're doing well, but he's already given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u156	It's not personal. Please, Mr. Pafile! No more explanations are needed. Here you go, Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I cannot speak with Bogdan's face.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u158	Pause, Mrs. Pappiga. That's what I wanted to say and I don't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u159	Let us ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, if it is a peculiar political term what the Prime Minister once and two and three times said 'we are raising Greece', when the government brings a bill according to which it says that it enshrines 100% the exercise of the right to extend the yacht zone up to the twelve nautical miles. It's not that cadet. Watch out. Nationalism and cosmopolitanism go and be careful, in our view. We believe that the fight between SYRIZA and New Democracy is disorientating to many people who have had the first initiative to prepare a draft law for the Ionian region, for the agreement with Albania, Italy, etc., for the AEZ and the continental continent, if SYRIZA or the real initiative was launched by New Democracy and not just because it is a one-and-a-half-a-half-life difference and perhaps it doesn't matter. What is certain, however, is that both parties sought to do this, starting with a common assumption - of course, increased Turkish aggression - that Greece with the decisions of the SYRIZA government and then, of the New Democracy, gave everything to make Greece's geostrategic upgrading in the framework of NATO and the agreement in particular with the United States of America. It turned Greece into a great aggressive, literally, headset, with thirteen then and now increased today's missions that are directed against the peoples of the region and therefore close the eye to those who have so far denied this right in Greece if in return you can get the sealing of the right to the twelve nautical miles etc., etc. Because Turkey, of course, also raises many other unacceptable issues. One issue was this, the geostrategic upgrading of Greece, which, for us, is absolutely dangerous for the Greek people and not just for the Greek people, but also for the neighbouring people. Second element. Due to the ten-year capitalist economic crisis, the anemic growth forecasted since 2018 and the new crisis that would come, but also with the action of the pandemic, the war on the energy wealth of the Eastern Mediterranean and more widely is literally halved. And this war doesn't involve the usual suspects who were twenty, thirty years ago. Here to a certain extent is the United States' leadership over China, which is Russia. We also have conflicts between the European Union and NATO and these issues. You thought both parties "we here, as our allies told us - not only our allies, but also our business groups in Greece, Greece's urban order - did this with the above and we are prepared to give more and more". We are now reaching Mali, the Persian Gulf, etc. If we now have the opportunity to enshrine rights enshrined in International Law, for example, the Sea, since 1982 and 1994 by the United Nations Organization, etc. You found this opportunity to make use of both parties as ethers the difficulties of relations between the United States and Turkey, and each time you hang on to what Trump will say and what Pompeo will say. Now you are hanged by the mouth of the new president, Biden, and his new Foreign Minister, who has made a statement today, so what? Ensure rights sovereignly in the Aegean and also increase the ability to profit from business groups, to face crisis problems. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] But look to see: Bring me a statement from the United States of America that talks about rights sovereign and recognized sovereign rights in Greece. Most of Turkey's actions have been criticised by a sweet-language language. For them, their problem is this: they are opposed to Turkey because they are sweetening and blackmailing the United States with the alliance of Russia which has nothing to do with the Soviet Union, it is a purely capitalist, regional, important and with wider power. That's the point. That's what he said today. And today the one to be appointed, who will become Minister of Foreign Affairs, has raised this issue. You are looking to see what Mendendez, the Senator of the Democratic Party, says. Does it say something good for Greece with all that comes from the conflict between the United States and Russia about who will use Turkey's geostrategic power? Once, of course, Turkey has been subjected to the blackmail of the United States or has chosen to go with the USA, history has ended and then the Aegean issues, as far as sovereign rights in the Aegean, are concerned, go on a walk. We will therefore tell you clearly: we do not deny that the current government and all the previous ones are claiming to extend to twelve nautical miles. We accept that he does not want to deliver islands to Turkey. We accept that, however, you know very well that all of this depends on the alliances in which you participate and the reason - Mr Velopoulos already says so clearly - is what consideration we receive. And it doesn't seem strange to you if, after a year, two, three, four years, we get to co-management in the Aegean. Let's say there's a lot of orchestras that play the same goal among themselves, the conductors there direct the resolution of Greek-Turkish differences as recorded - you know it very well - in co-management. We do not want to predict exactly how things will develop, but what we can predict is that Greece's geostrategic upgrading to the plans, namely, the imperialist interventions, pressures, wars against the peoples and through wars against friendly states or former friendly states due to competition, all of this can lead to some new exchanges towards Greece's bourgeoisie and not to the people in exchange for co-management or anything. In this sense, we were also placed in the previous bills you brought to today. Of course, we are in favour of the single Greek territory that includes the islands and the right to extend to twelve nautical miles and any state that refuses these things means in fact that it is interested in changing borders. Only - let us make it clear - that when we talk about the single Greek territory before all we take into account - today, in today's conditions and today's association of forces - that the Greek people must not allow them to lose all or part of the wealth that exists in the ground, in the ground, in the sea, in the underwater regions of Greece. Of course, at the moment the wealth is not his own. The wealth has been gained by business groups through the political decisions of the governments that have passed and the ones that will pass in the near future. That is no reason for us to be indifferent to the Greek border. We are fighting for how the conditions will be created - and when the people are in real power - this wealth becomes its own and exploited to its own benefit for its people's prosperity. By the way, because we are talking about patriotism: Many times the Secretary-General of Parliament has said, but I think other Members of the Communist Party of Greece have said this: because we are talking about patriotism is not even worth a newspaper, a news report on the Communist Party of Turkey, a party that acts in much worse, if you like, conditions regarding how the Communist Party of Greece acts, because the party is typically illegal, it is not recognised in constitutional terms. This party has the same positions that we formally support parties, and the JRC, on Turkey's sovereign rights and has the same positions for the Cyprus issue. It is the only party that reported Turkey's invasion of Syria. Mendez speaks, makes a statement and catches half the news bulletin and an entire article in the newspapers and, on the other hand, there is a party that struggles, which is called a "progressive party" because he supports the same positions as the Communist Party of Greece. Isn't that patriotism? Patriotism is to participate in NATO's thirteen missions to the detriment of other peoples, buy Patriot to send them to Saudi Arabia, go to Mali, Africa, or do exercises that are directed against states with which we have a long distance? Excuse me, why has the Cypriot and Palestinian question not been resolved so far, two outstanding issues, one from the 1970s and one from the 1970s, but let us speak more clearly after the Turkish invasion and occupation, and the other after the Second World War? What International Law do you speak of and what alliances? Why have these issues not been resolved? I have not heard the Greek Government take initiatives on these when it takes initiatives to address the issue of Iran, Saudi Arabia, to address the different geostrategic interests of one or another. I haven't heard of any initiatives to come for the Palestinian. The Cyprus issue is, of course, an international issue, but some such initiatives are not coming. Everyone understands why the JRC is concerned - to say only this word, 'concerns' - about where things are being drawn and with the investigative orders.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Before I give Mr Dritsa the floor, we should organize the debate a little bit. The speeches of the parliamentary representatives have not been completed. The former President of Parliament will speak, as he is entitled, and there are twenty Members. Ladies and gentlemen, do you agree to limit the seven minutes to six, without being strictly respected, for example, there will be a tolerance there?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u161	The House has agreed. With the consent of the House, it will be six minutes with tolerance without restriction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u162	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u163	Seven minutes for all, Mr President. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u164	So we said why we have a lot of people to finish. We'll see, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u166	Mr Bogdano, you raised a matter, it has now been decided by the President of Parliament, we cannot come back. Don't embarrass me. The Rules are clear. It can be put forward even after the end of the debate that is being held, but it has a condition that the Rules of Procedure should not have been judged. We can't judge it again. Please do not put the Bureau in a difficult position. This request was considered by the President to be not personal. Thank you very much. Mr. Drizzas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. With all due respect, I will be allowed by Mrs Papayannakis, who I am succeeding on the occasion of a very important report she has made, to say that it is worthwhile to put this matter to the Greek Parliament and, in general, to political life. I can understand in our rhetoric talking about Turkey, but not about the Turks, ladies and gentlemen. The Turkish people do not mean they are being framed by Erdogan's nationalist, reviewing and aggressive policy. On the contrary, the accident is that the progressive democratic and left-wing forces in Turkey do not have the power to change the relationship at this juncture and Turkey is not a democratic country. This is also a very important issue, a whole for our policy and for dealing with it, which we must have. Apart from the Communist Party of Turkey, a powerful party with more than 10% of the votes, the philosopher has his leader in prisons. And these are things Europe does not understand. The Turkish people can therefore also be an ally and solidarity in the pursuits of the Greek people. And in that direction we must move. Now I'm going to the main thing. The honourable Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Dendias, has a political route and as Foreign Minister, with whom we have often disagreed with his choices and are not out of criticism. But you will allow me to highlight something which is very characteristic, with the exception of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative to some extent. Mr. Dendias, who is proposing today this bill to determine the range of the gyalitis zone in the Ionian Sea and the Ionian Islands to cape Tinar of the Peloponnese, and to committee and plenary, said: "I am glad that history has given me this honour to recommend this bill" and sat down. And from there and beyond chaos, from the Prime Minister to almost all the MPs of the New Democracy, the Greek Solution, a patriot-free felony. And Mr. Dendias knows very well what he's saying. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the right to extend the yacht is not just a right, it is a reality, a existence and undisputed sovereignty, at least since 1955 or even since 1982. If the Dodecanese were to be integrated in 1947 from the defeated Italy, after the national liberation struggles of the Dodecanese, international legislation along the way and the 1982 Treaty and its ratification by the Law on the Law on the Law of the Sea by the Greek Parliament in 1995, twenty-six years ago, he determined that all these sixteen miles in all parts of the country are a reality given and undeniable. It is not a sovereign right to exercise. It's dominance. There is always a crucial issue here. The possibility and the right of every state, where no state operates in the vacuum, within international realities and correlations, works, determine when and how it will exercise its sovereignty. Is that a defeat element? Is that a matter of retreat? Is it a sign of ethnicity and a lack of patriotism? Or is it a sign of dominance? This is precisely what, if we do not admit it, we will have to initiate court proceedings, court or court for all governments, at least from 1995 until today. These are absurdities. But there's a real explanation, because for so many years there's been no extension to twelve miles. For many years, the current view of political parties and governments and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' diplomatic hierarchy has been "do not move them, they will come better days and then we will be able". That was the dominant logic, and the other logic was what Mr Kumucasos said it, and many others said it, and the rapporteur of the New Democracy said it, indirectly but clearly, that there was a well-established and hegemony view in the Foreign Ministry that either we or we do it all or that part is negative. It has proved to be a mistake and it has not been proved now that the Government of New Democracy comes in and suggests this bill, but it has been proven exactly by the SYRIZA Government, Alexis Tsipras, Nikos Kotzias, George Katrugalos, who in this respect questioned and initiated procedures for another address. Of course they need regular moves. Of course it takes time. Of course, earlier actions and prerequisites are needed. But it was the SYRIZA government that troubled the sandy waters in this well-established, wrong view for decades. And that is why the masculine, which the first speaker today, Mr Bogdanos, has called for, on one occasion, braveness. And braveness means, just to prevent any poison that divides and any option that goes to create patriots and non-patriots, capable and unsatisfactory. This is where the bravery of the admission is needed, that this wrong policy for decades, even because the circumstances allowed it, or because our government had another logic, or because, or because that is why they moved and started in the government of SYRIZA. And today matures now come to be confirmed. Instead of getting Mr Mitsotakis to congratulate the SYRIZA Government, which initiated this process, he insists on confirming and applauding, even today, the reactions, then, of Mr Koumoutsakou, Mrs Bakoyannis, Mr Georgiadis, Mr Kikilia, which were what? It was not personal opinions, but it was the unprepared policy change in a well-established policy in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for decades. That's what this is about. So braveness, so that there is a consensus where the Greek people should also understand that there are no "wry" governments, which are not patriots, but there are good and wrong policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Dritsa, please complete. You've reached eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u169	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is precisely in this direction that we have to resolve and pending the problem of the Cyprus problem, which is a very big case, which must now be dealt with and not secret and unnecessarily avoided. I am also impressed by the selective criticism of the Prime Minister. All right, commented on the President of the Officer's Opposition, Mr. Tsipras and his words. That makes sense. But for all this toxic climate, Mr. Velopoulos, won't the Prime Minister and the others make a comment? Do you recognize? Are you a building? Are you moving in this direction?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Dritsa, please, time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u171	I shall end with that, Mr President. Is that how we're going to go to the investigative contacts?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u172	If all my fellow Members speak for so long, we will not finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u173	I shall end with this phrase, Mr President. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the investigative contacts will judge the Greek Government's ability to succeed. Not to play who's responsible or where they failed. This really needs a combined policy to achieve the investigative contacts and go to The Hague. These are, therefore, the top issues that we need to discuss and leave the mockeries that degrade and divide the Greek people and their crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u175	Your request has been judged by the President and rejected. Mr Voloudakis has the floor. Until he goes up to the Step, I would like to make a statement to this House. The President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece and the party MPs tabled today, on 20-1-2021, a proposal for a law on "Measures to relieve the self-employed of the city and the countryside of the consequences of the crisis and the management of the COVID pandemic -19". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr. Voloudakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Today the surface of national sovereignty is growing by about thirteen thousand square kilometres. So much is the area of the territorial waters in the Ionian Sea plus the closure of the tricks, which are added by the extension to twelve nautical miles. This is an increase of about 10% of the entire surface of national sovereignty. Greece from the moment of the new Greek state was formed, from 1830 to 1947 it was constantly expanding, integrating more and more land from Greece. It was literally a route through fire and iron. Today International Law enables us to have the first extension of our sovereignty in a peaceful way, a possibility which the government's foreign policy has successfully exploited with a plan and a coherent strategy. It is therefore a historic day today, and it is truly hopeful that the bill under discussion is voted in favour of all the parties of the House, except for the JRC that votes for'residences'. The step we are taking today validates to our home country a part of it, which in total is entitled to it under the 1982 United Nations Convention. Our responsibility and obligation is to move forward in the next steps. There has been a lot of discussion about whether we are well or badly moving, whether we are right or wrong, were planning a corresponding move in 2018, without it being completed, etc. I would like to say, beyond parties' attitudes, something about the substance. We all want to press a button and meet in our final goal. It is not always possible in politics. Technical and other peculiarities now require the gradual exercise of the right. As regards the controversy, which has prevailed today in the debate, I would like to say that the concern, in my personal opinion, expressed and then legitimate, and the concern, expressed today, about the sectionary or not of the extension, was reasonable. These issues are complex, as the Prime Minister quite rightly said. But that is what we can do today and that is what we are doing. Why was it, and is concern reasonable? Because some people say that Turkey can take the wrong signal that in a single part of the territory at this stage we are expanding our territorial waters. So in our hand it is to give the message that we must and no one must draw to the wrong conclusions. Already, the Foreign Minister announced that he is coming in the next period of extension to the south of Crete and even to the eastern part of Crete, which is crucial. We must exercise this right gradually, especially as we enter the process of exploratory talks, because it must have taken precedence over the possibility of recourse to The Hague. After all, as the Prime Minister rightly pointed out earlier today, referring to the respective debate with Albania, the expansion of territorial waters reduces the risk of any debate on the continental shelf and on the AEZ. So we'll give the message. I believe, Minister, that the northern Crete and the line from Tinaro to Kythera should follow, so that it is clear that Greece really exercises all its rights in time and in the way it chooses, as you have quite rightly put it. A couple of words about exploratory. You have, Minister, quite rightly explained that the only thing to be discussed is the delimitation of the continental continent and the overriding Exclusive Economic Zone. We have seen articles and other views talk about spatial waters. It is a mistake, obviously, and I want to believe that this is just a mistake. A mistake, which may have arisen because of the general term'sea zones', which may have unfortunately prevailed in this debate. We must be clear that we are talking specifically about continental and exclusive economic zone alone. And as Mr. Dendias quite rightly said, the Greek continental shelf is already described in Law 4001/2011, the Maniatis Act, on the exploitation of hydrocarbons. We do realize, of course, that we do not have much to expect from exploratory research. What's going to happen in the sixty-first round, not in the previous sixty? As much as the conditions have changed, as the main positions of stakeholders have not changed, common experience teaches that by repeating the same moves you produce the same results. Having said all the above, I must note that we are well placed in the investigative process, as we must make it clear everywhere that we seek peace, stability and cooperation. I believe that the debate within the country on whether or not we should come to the exploratory talks, when this debate was taking place, was actually not about the exploratory ones themselves, but it was, in fact, a dissent about the alleged next stage, and I think we should also speak openly about it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need a minute, Mr President, because the change in time took place in the middle of the process. There is a school of thought, academic and policy, which needs to be taken into account in the Aegean. It is the logic of Mr Erdogan's 'cazan-cazan', which is not only found in Turkey. Those who think this way tend to see our position in the world in terms and philosophy of the market. But the nations are not corporations. The market merges companies by dividing something to each other, to increase their overall profitability and to both win. We cannot raise this in transnational relations. Furthermore, in our case under International Law only we would have to contribute to such a hypothetical exchange. Only we would grant rights without getting anything from the other side. There's nothing to give to this hypothetical split on the other side. The other side would simply stop bothering us, at least according to the supporters of the idea of collapsing. This is Erdogan's 'cazan-cazan': 'Give me half of yours, I'm keeping mine and I'm not bothering you again'. Thank you, we won't. Leave it, where there is no guarantee that if you give such a neighbour what he asks, he will not be back in the next phase asking for more. For all these reasons, the vast majority of the Greeks say no to the logic of scepticism. The planning of the House's work these days, the sequence of legislation that is being voted, deliberately or not, reflects a strong political symbolism. Last Thursday we voted for the Rafale agreement and today we are voting for the first phase of the extension of territorial waters to twelve nautical miles. Greece is a country that seeks peace. We say yes to international law, international cooperation and peaceful coexistence. We do not, however, grant anything from our present sovereignty and our sovereign rights, nor from the rights that International Law allows us to exercise at any time in the future. That truth must be heard in this Chamber and outside it. This truth comes from the distant past and resonates both today and yesterday and tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u177	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u178	I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u179	Your request has been judged by the President and rejected. The former President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say directly that in my speech on a number of issues which I will be briefing, I would just like to substantiate the Greek Government's dangerous lack of strategy, which I hope will not be demonstrated in the exploratory talks, on which we are coming, as Dritsa and Mr Katrugalos said, with an open heart, with a delimited debate, but with a view to moving forward and yielding, because it was just a strategy for a year and a half which was characterised mainly by 'horses' and silences. I want directly to say that I would sign my speech as the need to pursue the peace we are working on. We are working on peace and we are preparing for peace, seeking peace, with diplomacy, with defence, with the law, which produces peace, as has been said before. This must be the strategy of the House, the strategy of the political system, but also the strategy, in my opinion, of the Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister a moment ago was abducted from those responsible, from the officials and from the ministers of his party. I would not say that they 'emptied' or anything else, they do not want to create impressions. But it clearly distanced itself from the micro-group, in my view, of opposition to opposition to opposition at this stage and the way in which it opposed the SYRIZA Government for the phase we were discussing the previous phase. In order to clarify the previous ones in the discussion with the President of SYRIZA and Chief of Officerial Response, Mr. Tsipras, how he just kept himself out of all the statements made and in 2018 and 2019, which were in another strategy of total contrast with the initiatives of the Greek Government at the time on this issue, which we are discussing the expansion of the kayalitis zone. I will come back to this because it matters. But he has distanced himself today. Perhaps you will notice - and I ask you very much - about the use of the Minutes for those who did not notice it - that the Prime Minister from the Step of Parliament said that they did not change the data in 2020, and now the government is progressing because it has a strategy of active intervention, etc. But what do we hear for ten days in this House, in the committees and here in the debate that has taken place? What we heard from all sides was that the New Democracy joined this strategy, precisely because, because of the Turkmenistan pact - and not only - they changed the data, which forced the Greek Government to go to partial recognition as well. That was the basic argument of all the representatives of the government and the committees and here. The Prime Minister has made it clear, obviously in the name - I repeat - of opposition to opposition to opposition to opposition. It seems to be the same political thought, but extremely dangerous, when it comes to foreign policy. I should also like to say about the substance of the issue and the controversy that had taken place in 2018 and 2019. It is not only the statements that had the opposition charge, as had been made in the Prespecies Agreement or the complete reaction to a strategy of active intervention, which first made Greek government after decades, said Mr Lovers. In any case, I would say that for the first time in such clear terms, we have made an incision to the strategy that has existed so far, and that is why I am referring to Mr Loverdos, who said that until then the strategy was 'or everywhere'. There was, of course, a breakthrough in this direction. There was an active interventionist foreign policy, which has evolved throughout the region for stability, for active presence, for strengthening the issues of the sovereignty of the country and part of this strategy has been the preparation for the kayalitis zone. The difference which at the time - see all the statements - had been expressed was on the substance, i.e. incompatibility, non-partial activation of this right. It wasn't that there was no good preparation, that he sent the wrong messages. These were the extras that came to the argument. The difference was substantial: Non-sectional, because this is against the country's national interests. It is therefore obvious and correct that our rapporteurs insisted that there was an accession to the SYRIZA government's strategy from the current New Democracy policy. I shall also refer to another very specific and serious issue which has caused me a great deal of concern. A few days ago, although some of Parliament's groups and us expressed strong disagreements about the perforation, I would say, a Rafale Convention, there was a very large majority in favour of this programme as well as the Armed Forces and so on. Watch out now. Since the morning, we heard yesterday that systems are coming in in '21 and quickly, for frigates, for extra equipment and, of course, for the Army as well as for the 11.6 billion programme. It was heard by the Prime Minister. We were told until '34 26 billion, and we know that. Of course, there was something about F-35. They heard about everything. We are in the face of exploratory discussions, which will start and go as far as possible and will result mainly in the inauguration of a climate of peace. They will not solve the issue, neither will we resolve it now, but will have another climate which will release both our peoples and our countries from the hunt for arms. Is it possible here in the Greek Parliament with such comfort to say about weapons systems, of tens of billions, as if it were something that comes tomorrow - and to be happy about that? I am putting this right and confirming the correct position of the SYRIZA in the budget for the time being, in the sense of a reservation on the strategy and on the defensive expenditure, on the way in which, in order to prioritise, any aid needs to be granted to the Armed Forces for any time in which it is to be granted. I'm writing it down. I think it's particularly important. I come to another very serious issue, ladies and gentlemen. What's the silence? Here we come to say and predetermine, then pressure, that also for Crete, we are planning to develop this strategy in relation to the twelve miles etc. Why this silence for months for the two agreements with Northern Macedonia? For months everything has been frozen! At the same time, there are meetings in the forums outside, here, we welcome Prime Ministers and Ministers. There is an appeal from all sides, and there are provision - I am sure - for the agreement to go ahead with the data that will be no problem. Why? At what audience does this government give an account, when it does not, to the Greek Parliament, bring the two conventions which exist with northern Macedonia to the vote? There is a question, which is added and substantiated by what I have told you about a strategy, which others call 'a nail and one in a petal', and I am saying 'Koreas' and contradictory silences. Fourthly, what fine words have been heard all these days about what the Greek Parliament is signaling when it has very broad consensus on such central issues, whether it relates to Rafale or, above all, this agreement now. There are broad consensus. Very good. And there are nice messages. This logic, this political logic, why didn't it bewilder, and on the contrary completely different logics, when the Ambassadors' Agreement came? Then no false messages were sent to the international community? The current Prime Minister then, if you remember, repeatedly testify to us that the Prespecies Agreement was made by Mr Tsipras, Mr Kotzias, the SYRIZA Government, in exchange for the extension of pensions. If that's possible! Where's the responsibility? Where the responsibility was then and where there is the appeal to all other forces for responsibility now, and indeed for anyone who brings any objection, any cult, immediately the 'anti-national oaks', the 'anti-national thought', the lack of responsibility on all sides comes to the surface. A matter incomprehensible. There is also a very great silence about the Cyprus issue. And from other aspects - I saw from the side of the Change Movement - the issue was raised twice. Ladies and gentlemen, how do we not understand? Mr Taran came out - if I am not mistaken what he is called - as a representative of the false counsel, the pseudo-staters - to say it officially because I am from a step in the House - and he put the official policy at the table, just like the Turks, on the issue of the two separate states. Others say it's a loose confederation. They will succeed in telling us that the loose confederacy will also be retreated against normal division and that it will be done in the light of the fact that 'the Republic of Cyprus today is an equal member of the European Union. What should we do?’ What powers have they encouraged - I say this directly - in many respects and not just the one which has been very difficult - the Turkish side, and not Mr Akinji -, these years in order to reach this situation? Why don't we talk open? Why doesn't the government take initiatives? I have heard here - and we all agree - a hundred times that the button, the key to Greek-Turkish relations, the key to peace in the Eastern Mediterranean, if not exclusively, is the resolution of the Cyprus issue. Where are they, Minister, where are you, Prime Minister? Is it off-line, off-the-spot? In other words, an ad hoc consensus, which is not part of any kind of strategy for how there will be peace, with sovereign rights, with the law, with the resolution of major outstanding issues. That's where the Cyprus issue stands. A strategy like this. No matter how many words we spend here and talk about, this strategy does not appear. I don't want to get any further. I'm sorry, 'cause I might have said enough. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat: If we really mean - and it has been heard from all sides here - that we are working for peace in the region, we are working to guarantee sovereign rights, we are working to enforce and push international law in all its facets and its neighbours and other countries in the eastern Mediterranean, we must serve that. We must also serve it in the internal party dialogue, i.e. without micro-grouping and micro-political thoughts which are dominated by the strategies of addressing the individual government or opposition, but above all serve it with a clear strategy on foreign policy and defence issues. Otherwise, it is obvious that all the flowers blossom, and pro-war cries, and the recognition of issues which Turkey then exploits and Turkish aggression. Mr Erdogan's aggression is not lost and the region's review of the situation when we have such a strategy. On the other hand, if, in the context of the European Union and the alliances in the region and with an open heart, it would be much easier to deal with all these issues in time, and through the exploratory contacts, we would have to move on with the steps in which we all agree that we must move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Now Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement. With the change that has taken place, the reason after Mr. Kegeroglu will have Mr. Kumoucasos. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u182	The flowers, Mr President, are desirable to bloom. The thorns should be prevented and removed. This indeed requires lower tons and not lionisms that we have heard today and great talk. It requires that we say the same as governments and oppositions. Unfortunately, at least for the last two administrations, SYRIZA and New Democracy, others were carried out as governments and others said as opposition. They refused and refuse to reach national agreement on a strong national strategy in the new data - because that is what we need to take into account - and as oppositions New Democracy and SYRIZA asked for national understanding. We've got to get this over with. In some circle, this has to stop. We really raise matters on the table. Our President has been put on the table, and in particular with her secondary speech, she has made it clear. We have to move on, because Turkey certainly has a review strategy, and it has dismantled the European road, despite what some of the circles have said over the last few weeks that they are bringing it back and unfortunately has slowed its aggression by causing 'grey' areas. With a series of actions the international law has offended - not only Greece - and it shows that it is not enough to play a strong regional force. He wants to express the entire Muslim world all over the earth. Faced with this situation and the challenges in the Eastern Mediterranean, the European Union has shown appallingness. We must distinguish France's attitude for a considerable period of time and, of course, say that the Merkel presidency has played a part in this direction and, of course, we must support NATO's attitude and say that America has also penalised the S-400 issue, with the disagreement of course with Mr Trump, who left, Mr Trabbb's retired. The New Democracy Government has acted against this situation, but has been fragmented and ineffective and without a national strategy. Individual successes are not a success. We should be aware of this because there have really been great talk here about '47, that Greece and others are growing, in accordance with international law, so that we do not develop any chauvinist conception, not to discipline any generation on the basis of chauvinism. But, at the same time, we are talking about successes and we are not talking about failures. We are not saying that the lack of strategy over time has led to the shrinking of Hellenism from Istanbul. There was no talk of the shrinking of Hellenism in Cyprus! I'm sorry. Haven't these been since '47? And if the issue of Cyprus had not been raised by our President, it might not have been discussed in this plenary, apart from other simple references. These are, therefore, issues which Greece should see with a long-term strategy on the basis of the new data. Unfortunately, as I told you, that doesn't exist. Mr. Mitsotakis refused it. He insists on his refusal, following Mr. Tsipras' stooped-up. We need to change this, break this negative cycle for Greece. We consider the reopening of investigatives to be a positive step, but on conditions. The first is that Greece's position is absolute that nothing more is being discussed on the continental shelf and the demarcation of the EEZ, and indeed in the context of the current international law, in which it should be drawn - from the European Union and not just our position - Turkey should accept, in order to start exploratory investigations. That's not what happened. We must, at the same time, be vigilant with Erdogan and his real intentions, because he now wants to take time, see how the new conditions are shaping up with the new president in America and get off the sign of the troublemaker in the region. And, of course, it will insist in every way that it raises issues and extends the agenda. Even yesterday I was told that he made statements about the bill we are discussing today. Of course the question arises here, and our point is that we have misinterpreted the Tinaro. With this bill, all our sovereignty had to be extended from six to twelve miles. With this bill! As the investigatives begin, there is a question of what the next stage is. For you have also promised in the necessary partition agreement with Egypt that it will be completed. We don't see her. But that is where Egypt's agreement presupposes agreement. This requires only Greece's will and preparation for this. I would point out that there is a question of management - and so all the governments should see it, but above all the present one - of the rights of Greek fishermen in the zone from six to twelve miles, so that any right - on the basis of the European directives - of the fishermen of Italy and other European countries, should not be at the expense of the Greeks. This is an issue that can be consolidated and dealt with. I come to the issue of the divisional demarcation. I would remind you that when we made the partial delimitation of the EEZ with Egypt, there were questions in relation to the influence of the islands. I must remind you that the Greek Government is in this line, that our position is - and I think that national line should be -100% influence of the islands, influence of Crete as a whole and of the adjacent islands on it, and of Rhodes, as well as of the islands of the Kastelorizo complex and this should be a red line. We won't forget that. Before I finish my position, I must point out the substantial abandonment of Cyprus and the strategy for Hellenism. I made a report and started. Accepting the demands for consensus, even by silence, will be unforgivable and will be recorded in history in black colors, apart from the fact that it will offer absolutely nothing positive, in the face of the aphathia and aggression of Turkey. Already silence, silence - to say so - following the hypotonic reactions to Baroness and other provocative actions are'skies'. This'skies' must not be left. We defend the interests of the Greek people. We support our national sovereign rights. That is why we continue to insist on the need for national co-operation and a strong national strategy, a national strategy that does not allow national issues to be closed down with concessions, but promotes a step forward - to guarantee Greek rights and to transform sovereign rights into sovereignty. We can, there are the conditions and, of course, when we operate as allies with confidence and with a national strategy and not as satellites, we can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u183	Mr Giorgos Koumoutsaskos from New Democracy has the floor. After Mr. Koumouchakos, Mr. Yiannis Burnus will speak from SYRIZA and then Mr. Katsaniotis. We'll see if there's not been a change with Mrs. Skondra. Here you go, Mr. Kumucaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 27 of the Constitution, the Greek Parliament will approve in a bit with a overwhelming intergroup majority the decision by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to extend our territorial waters and national airspace to twelve maritime miles in the Ionian Sea, the Ionian Islands to Cape Tinaro in the Peloponnese. This is a historic moment. Greece is moving with national consensus towards extending its territorial sovereignty, applying an inalienable right to international law, as reflected in Article 3 of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. It has been prioritised, as it should have been, by version of No. 107/2020, in which the bays were closed and straight lines were drawn up in the area of expansion. At the same time, with the law, which Greece will vote today, Greece reserves the right to exercise this fundamental right to extend its territorial waters as an expression of its national sovereignty and other areas of its territory. If we take into account and add the clear statements by the Government, Prime Minister and Foreign Minister for the implementation of this Greek right at a later stage and in Crete, we can say, ladies and gentlemen, that we all have the chance and the honour to participate in a historic moment. At such times, such decisions of national consensus are a factor of national power for our country. This decision to extend territorial waters and the airspace as an extension of Greece's territorial sovereignty is the result of a specific strategy, serious preparation and cross-party information, and serious preparation because the agreements with Italy and Egypt have been preceded by the adoption of an Exclusive Economic Zone, as well as the consultation with Albania on delimitation following joint action by an international court, i.e. The Hague. For all this, there has been a systematic pre-information of the political forces. Nothing happened all of a sudden, nothing happened arbitrary, nothing happened at the last minute. In addition, the current decision forms part of the Government's overall effective strategy for diplomatic, operational and defence resurgence of the Turkish reformist and expansionist policy of recent years and, in particular, of recent months, a policy that has caused long and dangerous tensions in our region. This provocative policy of Ankara was expressed by the violation of international law and the rape of Turkey's own geography - Tripoli. This policy is reflected in the destabilising doctrine of the 'Blue Country', which is a conscious strategic choice and not a verbal exaggeration of the Turkish leadership. After all, this has been confirmed over the past period with Turkey's declarations and actions to promote power in the Eastern Mediterranean, Syria, Libya, the Caucasus and, of course, the continued violation of the Aegean Sea. All these events worked as a geopolitical accelerator of Greek thoughts, planning and decisions. That for almost half a century had been judged not to be mature or inappropriate by all Greek governments and by generations of diplomats, technocrats, jurisprudence and transnationalists, is done in the current circumstances and mature and appropriate, nationally correct and enforced. It's happening at the right time. After all, it was announced and decided without predicament, without cheap impressions and, in any case, gentlemen of the Opposition, not on the occasion of the resignation of the Foreign Minister, the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, who made announcements on such crucial national issues, when he gave his duties to his successor who was the Prime Minister at the time of the country, the Prime Minister who had forced him out of the government. Mr Kotzias spoke of presidential decrees, the successor of Mr Tsipras, but today also the foreign policy minister, Mr Katrugalos, was speaking and speaking - and rightly - about law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I have asked you to give me two more minutes, because my name has been mentioned several times by the opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u185	I didn't interrupt you, I just...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u186	So these unforgettable, when the members of the then government could not agree with each other, happened in the unforgettable October 2018. Since then, there has been a time of inactivity. And when does the question come back from the government then? Just before the confirmed disastrous result for the then government of European elections, in February 2019 - Mr Loverdos was there - and in April 2019, when the European elections would take place in May 2019, that is, a few days before a election process, essentially within the election period. And then yes, I said to the National Foreign Policy Council "do not commit the country, while we are in a pre-election period". Today, then, new, solid, serious and serious decisions have been taken by the government and rightly. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am ending with this, Mr President - the decision that we are taking today is important and because of the time that this is taking place, only a few days before the resumption of the investigative contacts in Istanbul. The fact that this is the sixty-first round of a procedure, which lasts almost twenty years, indicates and confirms the great complexity and particular gravity of the issues that are being investigated in these contacts. However, the very increased interest caused by this sixtieth first round is due to the fact that it is taking place after a long period of great tension with the neighbour, a tension for which Turkey has a full responsibility. Exploratory contacts are a framework for dialogue, which is necessary among neighbours despite the differences they sometimes have. But it is not the exploratory negotiation contacts. It is a pre-negotiating process to detect any shocks between the two parties, which would allow - then and only then - the passage to the next stage, that of the main negotiation. So this round, Greece comes with the certainty of international law and, in particular, the Law of the Sea, on which all national positions are founded. After all, the Law of the Sea is a European acquis. It also comes with the framework set by Prime Minister Mitsotakis, excluding the extended Turkish agenda, namely issues of demobilisation of islands, questioning national sovereignty on Greek islands, issues of minorities and others. The attitude of Greece is, therefore, legally solid, politically constructive and negotiable. We seek stability and peace on the basis of international law and good neighbourly relations. In contrast, Turkey is moving, with words and deeds, in violation of international law, and even in the rape of geography.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u187	Please, finish, you've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u188	I'll be done. The recent statements made by the Foreign Minister Cavusoglu confirm this. These statements, however, do not bend us. We are aware of the very difficult economic, political and diplomatic position in which Turkey has put itself in its problem policy towards all, partners, allies, neighbours. We are therefore moving towards the exploratory contacts with confidence in our arguments, our positions and our forces, as the unanimous decision of the Greek Parliament will be taken soon, as the national consensus that is a factor of national power confirms. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u189	Thank you too, Mr. Kumucako. Mr Yiannis Burnos has the floor now. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are coming to vote on a bill which, in the very recent past, the New Democracy's foreign and defence sector together with Mr Georgiadis characterised as accession to Turkey's arguments and a great deal of damage, supposedly the Ionian from the Aegean. In foreign policy you have really swallowed the statements you have made over the last few years, without intervening any change in circumstances and circumstances, which would justify such a change in positions. You just became government and left behind the thoughts and swept them. Some other parties would be ashamed, even more would be ashamed and would like to hide if they had described only a few months ago in this Chamber as nationalist the expansion of the territorial waters south and east of Crete, as Mr Chrysochoidis had done or as easy lionizations, as Mr Gerapetti described. Not to say about the reproach of your attitude in the Prespecies Agreement which, from supposedly national defeat and national mistakes, came to clarify clearly what had happened in antiquity, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. Will anyone inform of those who were organizing molotov attacks at the offices and homes of SYRIZA Members? Will you ask even now for an apology for your arrest at the syllables of hatred with the criminal Nazi gang of the Golden Dawn? Your post-election accession to SYRIZA's foreign policy - Progressive Alliance and to bills, which had been prepared with great effort and serious work at the time, such as what we are discussing, may be an act of maturity of Mr. Denkia, but at the same time it is also a fierce demonstration of cynicism by Mr. Mitsotakis and your Government. If it was just cynicism, we could get past it. However, cynicism is just the symptom of a government and a Prime Minister, who goes without strategy and only with interest to the communication protection of his personal insecurity and the disappearance of his own personal failures, such as the failure to obtain sanctions on successive European Councils, a charm of pressure from powerful countries, who do not respect him and do not count him as Erdogan does. And obviously none of them say anything about Mr. Mitsotakis' domestic mediary. Unfortunately, with this courage and this irresponsibility, you are being dragged into exploratory investigations with Turkey. We certainly consider dialogue with Turkey to be the only way to resolve the existing disputes, and neither do we want to think about the hysteries of your MPs in case we come as a government in exploratory investigations. You, however, come with "golf" from the locker room, as you are the only Greek government to date, who attended about the "grass" helmet and the violation of the country's sovereign rights. You go for exploratory purposes with a government, a regime that systematically threatens by force, which has ridiculed the predictions of the Madrid agreement to avoid unilateral actions and challenges in the Aegean Sea, and which has probably guaranteed in Berlin and the mediation of other governments of our European partners, Mr Mitsotakis, on a very favourable agenda for that agenda. It is a regime that seems to have been seriously shaken in recent times if one is judged by the statements made by the former Prime Minister, Ahmet Dabutoglu, that Recep Tayyip Erdogan is under the custody of soldiers of the deep state. It is also a constant tactic for many Turkish governments to bring things to the conflict line and to ensure practical disputes of sovereignty and rights and then wear the staff of interlocutory and diplomacy and sit at the table of civilised dialogue. Didn't Mr. Mitsotakis know this before visiting the European capitals? It would not surprise us, of course, if Mr Mitsotakis were aware of this, but he has decided to appear open-minded and to keep a few strong governments in Europe happy, provided that he is facilitated by other things, as we see fit to do, for example, in the refugee situation where our islands have agreed to become refugee camps on behalf of Europe's xenophobic governments. Since summer 2019 you have been running behind developments with Turkey. They surprise you and threaten you, while Mr. Dendias is trying to resolve conflicts with the paradox of foreign policy from Mr. Mitsotakis' court in Maximos. And it is probably no coincidence that when Mr. Dendias speaks of'sea economic zones' as the subject of dialogue, Mr. Mitsotakis speaks of'sea zones' as a whole, in other words of territorial waters. We hope not to see any more surprises and whistles. The draft law, which the House will adopt today, justifies and continues SYRIZA's foreign policy - Progressive Alliance, even if it is lacking and does not include Crete. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I wish it were part of a coherent national strategy that would be respected by all governments in its core lines. For the time being, the only strategy is the "seeing and doing" of the unremovable Mr. Mitsotakis and the agony being constantly enclosed by his shield of protection. Foreign policy, however, wants guts and political courage and strategic planning and active multilateral initiatives. Just what we did, just what you don't do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Silver Skondra has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u192	Mr. President, the government?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u193	I can tell you, Mr. Colleague, that nothing changes. This is an internal change of two colleagues from the same party.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u194	I am not saying that, Mr President. I say the government is not represented.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u195	All right, Mr. Comrade, the Minister will be here. There may have been some need and she's been gone for a while. Here, Mrs. Skondra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u196	Mrs. Skondra, no Minister will hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u197	Mrs. Scottra will address all of you, dear colleague. I would like to say that I really expected another look and tone, dear fellow Members...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u198	I'm calm, my colleague!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u199	...because soon you will also vote for this bill, and if anything else on foreign policy issues, we must stand in harmony and give the message and example everywhere out. Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, foreign policy issues and the way in which our country's national interests are safeguarded were a very sensitive part of the Greek political scene and of our society over time. Regardless of political and ideological beliefs, all Greek women and all Greeks are well aware that our neighbourhood is a complex, complex one, I would say, area where they meet and sometimes conflict national ones, as well as many international interests. One does not need to look at the books in history to see that the developments now taking place mark a new powerful chapter for our country. I therefore consider it important that the political forces of the country in this critical period have placed themselves in a positive position on the issue we are discussing today. It is of major importance that Greece pursue a stable and coherent dynamic policy with unity and unity, a policy that will ensure security and peace in our country and the wider region. Ladies and gentlemen, the extension of the yacht zone to the Ionian Sea from six to twelve nautical miles after and the agreement with Italy is a historic moment. It confirms both bilaterally and internationally the inalienable rights of Greece in the marine sector, i.e. the possibility of extending its territorial waters to twelve miles whenever it considers it appropriate. The Government of New Democracy under the guidance of our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis went through the diplomatic path that our Minister of Foreign Affairs has successfully followed, Mr. Dendias, in a coordinated and decisive way, to reach agreement with the Italian democracy on the expansion of the territorial waters in the Ionian Sea. This is essentially a significant shift in the way our foreign policy is conducted. After years, Greece leaves the inertia behind and by vehicle International Law and Law of the Sea proceeds with a plan to reach an agreement that ensures the legitimate interest of our country. I will not dwell at all on what was heard by the Qualified Opposition as a criticism of the New Democracy's attitude when SYRIZA was in the government. We are here to shape tomorrow and speak in terms of the future. That is why I am focusing on the fact that the Greek Parliament is ratifying an important agreement, demonstrating the necessary political gravity and unity in this matter. This is important because, as we all know, the landscape in the Eastern Mediterranean has now changed dramatically. The neighboring country has been holding an extremely challenging and aggressive attitude for several months, which has even brought it into direct conflict with both Greece and our allies. It is recorded that Turkey's arrogant tactics do not easily change, and therefore the risk of aggression and retardation remains timeless. That is why it is extremely important that our country has made two legal agreements with Italy and Egypt, guaranteeing its rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has, historically, demonstrated patriotism and exceptional seriousness in foreign policy issues. There is a national planning that we follow closely and responsibly. There is a strategy that is comprehensive and aims to safeguard all our national rights and interests. There have been some voices of reaction during the debate of the bill in the committee responsible, but today, mainly on the basis of the attitude of the New Democracy to the Prespecies Agreement. Without having to go into many detail, I think it is enough to stress that Mr Mitsotakis has, from the outset, pointed out that this is a negative agreement which, despite the warnings of the New Democracy, was ratified by Parliament by a majority of the then government of SYRIZA, and therefore produces legal and irreversible results. It is high time we were serious and all understood that the Greek state must be consistent, consistent and serious, especially in international relations and foreign policy. It does not mean that a next government does not recognize the things of the previous government. As long as this hurts, as much as the current government disagrees with the earlier decisions, it must internationally honour its signature. Whatever the contrary is affecting the country and its credibility. Today, therefore, and given the agreements signed by Greece with Italy and Egypt, there will be a new round of exploratory contacts with Turkey and - regardless of what Turkey is seeking - for our country's exclusive subject of discussion is the AEZ and the continental continent. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by stressing once again that the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the purification of the breadth of the sea zone in the Ionian Sea and the Ionian Islands up to Cape Tinar in the Peloponnese is a new important chapter in our country's foreign policy. Greece is bound by the International Convention on the Law of the Sea which is part of our national law, as well as the European acquis. In any dialogue, then, with any third country we are bound by the European acquis. While for many years our homeland has been looking for substantial solutions that would ensure and justify its interests, now with Kyriakos Mitsotakis we are completing an important step, which brings Greece closer to this objective, a Greece that is growing, which is being claimed, which is playing a strategic role in the world. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Skondra. Mr. Ioannis Giokas from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor now. Then Mr. Katsaniotis will speak from New Democracy. Parliamentary representatives, who will make use of the terminology, can speak per two Members. Those who use dentistry to state it to make a setup. Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u201	Listening to the government and the government's MPs all these days, there were some basic arguments which they have used not to support a bill that actually concerns the exercise of an inalienable sovereign right stemming from the Law of the Sea and from International Law, but to support a full account that I have now created an exceptional circumstance for the country with strong alliances to face up to challenges, to solve problems, to see, to be, to be. All we hear these days, not only do they touch the limits of excesses, but they are totally reversed by objective reality. What are these arguments? It is: First of all, that this is how Greece grows, that Greece is growing. And secondly, that this will prevent Turkish aggression. However, those who adopt these arguments should answer at least two basic questions. If that is the case, as you say - not us - you say it - why did it be delayed for more than twenty-five years - since 1995 - to exercise this sovereign right by allowing Turkey to open up all claims? Secondly, why is today's exercise being done in part, leaving Turkey open the window, but also other international actors, to consider that this departmental exercise only for the Ionian Sea is an indirect assumption that the Aegean is a special case, which must be excluded from the Law of the Sea and international law? It is clear, therefore, that these arguments do not stand for serious criticism. It's obvious that they lead to contradictions. As it is obvious - at least to us it is clear - that the exercise time of this right only for the Ionian Sea now, and not all these twenty-five years, is not due to any skillful diplomatic or governmental alliances or to any allegedly more favourable circumstances that have allowed it, as you are trying to convince us. It is because it is now time, and in some cases it is going to be more critical, all these competitions and all these people-threatening arrangements, which are taking place in the Middle East and the Eastern Mediterranean. These arrangements are made for the benefit of energy colleges and other powerful monopolies, for the benefit of your allies, mainly in the interests of stability in NATO's eastern wing, but also in the interests of regional parts of capital in the region, which also claim part of the sharing of prey on the people's backs. These are the criteria. These are the criteria on the basis of which the Greek ruling class is also guided and participates in these plans in the region, part of which are the agreements with Italy and the agreement with Albania and the agreement with Egypt, but also the exploratory talks, which are now starting with Turkey. In any case, therefore, your criterion is not the protection of sovereign rights, nor much more the exercise of these sovereign rights for the benefit of the people, as we say, which is the crucial issue for us. And that is where your contradictions arise. That is where both measures and two weights come from. For this reason, in the Ionian Sea Greece may grow, but the rights of the people do not only grow up, but do little, because the people see the wealth they own to surrender to the mountains of the great business interests. That is why, on the other hand, the Aegean is small in practice, because there are the prerogatives of NATO and the European Union, which have their particular interests with Turkey, who want to maintain it in the Western camp, and that is why they are stifling Turkish aggression. This also seemed clear in all this story of infamous sanctions. What is the conclusion for us and what is the conclusion that the Greek people have to draw? It is true - we recognise this - that the bourgeois order and its governments have no taboo. It may be with the same ease that nationalist extremisms and retreats and world civilizations are backed up, sometimes both together, but always on the criterion of serving their interests. And in the face of these interests they put dominance rights in the Precursor bed, which under other social and political conditions could actually be used to satisfy people's needs. In this respect, then, we do not share either the complacentness or the optimism, which you are trying to cultivate, nor do we adopt this candy of the national line by name and the national consensus that you are defending together, which speaks of geostrategic upgrading, even more deeply involving Greece in NATO and the European Union's aggressive plans for mammoth armaments, which are not related to the country's defence, but precisely those plans. I was listening earlier to a SYRIZA MEP who spoke of people's solidarity. Well, are we working? The weapons you sent to Saudi Arabia and your responsibility - and you started it - what solidarity did the people serve? The military missions from the Middle East and the Eastern Mediterranean to the North Sea, what solidarity do the people serve? The EUR 4 billion in NATO every year, when the people suffer, what solidarity are they serving? They serve the designs of the Americans, NATO and the European Union. All these have been banned by the government and you, as protectors and guarantors of peace, security and well-being of the people. It is a line that has been bankrupt historically and which every day is becoming increasingly bankrupt. This is the case at a time when the alliances are being restructured very easily. And those who have touched their hopes in France or Biden, let them not be too exposed, because very soon they will be looking for clouds to fall. Very soon they'll be looking for a cloud to fall! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. But that's the line you all have. These days we heard MPs and did not know whether they belong to SYRIZA, whether they belong to New Democracy or to be part of the Change Movement. We danced with fellowship, joy, consensus, etc. It's the common line you've got. The line we have and the line for which the Greek people must fight is on the opposite side. It is the line of decommissioning and release from imperialism organisms and designs. It's the way to make the people truly the owner of the wealth they steal from him. It is the course of international solidarity and mutual benefit relations. It is, finally, the course for people to take power themselves. Only this course can ensure that differences are resolved either inherited from the past or even constructed. Everything else leads to very large adventures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. Mr Andreas Katsaniotis has the floor from New Democracy and then Mrs. Harula Kafantaris from SYRIZA will be prepared. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill marks a historic moment in the country's national strategy and sends out loud messages. It is historic because it extends the territorial waters and the national sovereignty of Greece in the first phase west. It is the strategy that shows that Greece wants and can, which exercises its sovereign rights under the rules of national law. It does not close loose ends, as some people say easily, because in national matters we do not close loose ends. You, of course, did. The Embassy Agreement, which you are still supporting today, has easily and historically given the existence of the so-called Macedonian language in the neighbouring country. And Bulgaria rehearsed veto. This means that there is no unfinished. We don't close loose ends. We are giving solutions to a road map, which was launched by the agreement with Egypt and which has been followed up. Today's bill is the result of a long-term national strategy served by all the governments of the New Democracy, by forming strong alliances in the Eastern Mediterranean, but also by highlighting the danger to the entire Turkish tactic area. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Let me remind you that the policy of creating a strong alliance between Greece, Israel and Egypt was launched by the government of Kostas Karamanlis. The first significant results came with the government of Antonis Samaras and were continued by the current government of the New Democracy of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. And it is also important that this bill is now being passed, at a time when we are expecting the reopening of exploratory contacts with Turkey. We all know that investigative contacts do not come into play. It's a mechanism for augmenting tension and not a dispute resolution mechanism. After all, it was Turkey who left the investigations. He put a number of unexistent issues and claims in the public debate. He made the pirate in the Aegean, and now he's the good guy and he's asking for conversations about everything. We, in line with the well-established national strategy, say that we can certainly sit at the debate table, but not in order to get into oriental bazaars. Our difference with Turkey is only the continental shelf and the EEZ. It's over! On the other hand, Turkey has one goal, to "root" as many points in the Aegean Sea as it can in the Aegean Sea, to put forward a series of incredible claims and then to ask to discuss them, trying to convince international public opinion that we are inconsistent. That is why it is very important that a number of issues should be raised in the public debate, from respect for the global monument of the culture of Agia Sophia, to the status of Imbros and Tenedo. We must also point out that the 'erdogic' Turkey is a classic case of a reformist force, a factor of destabilisation of the whole Eastern Mediterranean. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has shown that it maintains diplomatic capital and calculated deterrent factors. As in the crisis of Evros now the government and the country's security pillars have shown readiness, temper and professionalism. A coordinated diplomatic effort was made, networked, mobilised alliances and, at the same time, the Armed Forces covered their area of responsibility exemplarily, kept a firm mind and gave a clear message. Are we done? No, of course not. As long as there is an unstable "Erdogan", with his most proclaimed neo-ethmonic perception, his extreme review, his lack of any concept of complication and measure in his responses, his availability for expansion of the field of dominance through "finalisation", i.e. his enforcement by threat, everything is open. We need to maintain vigilance, to the maximum extent of the regular and strategic cooperation networks that we have built and to enhance our deterrent power overall. Ladies and gentlemen, the 21st century conflicts will not be the classical conflicts that we have known so far. They will be hybrid collisions, where the dominant reason will play the technological means. We already see it happening around us. Technologically developed countries shall ensure significant advantages in the field of power, irrespective of their size. A characteristic example in our neighbourhood is Israel, a country that invests at the edge of technology, knowing that traditional conflict mode belongs to the past and knows that its technological leadership ensures both national security and the economy of its country. This new way of conflict is an area that favours the smallest countries, which will rush to exploit the opportunities open up. To spend a great deal of money on our national wealth - which we are right to do - for equipment is not enough on its own. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We must use these investments to co-production weapons and defence and security technologies. We have the brains, we have the infrastructure, and Greece of ten million people has all the potential to become a very strong regional force, following the recipe for investment in the technology and innovation sector, moving beyond the defence equipment - which are always necessary - on significant investments in the field of technology. The change of the mixture of the country's security policy in this direction I think it will be the key to the future, a mixture that will bring up the Greek Defence Industry and give it new horizons, which will make defence power a decisive upgrade, but which will also bring significant resources to the national economy, given that this orientation is strongly exporting and very profitable. Ladies and gentlemen, the day before yesterday we were all witnessing the attitude of the German Minister for Foreign Affairs at his meeting with Mr Tsavosoglu. It is clear that the concept of law, as we have it in our minds, is not the same for everyone. The interests of some are above morality. Let's understand that we have to rely on our own powers. As Kisinger said, and Alexis Papachelas reminded us on Sunday in an article in "Kathimerini", making you dependent on the continuation of the good mood of another sovereign state, dissociating your morality, because it is a confession of weakness, impelled to irresponsibility, because of the conviction that developments cannot be influenced by your will.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u205	But today we are proving that we have will, both sober and decisively starting to expand our national boundaries, today in the Ionian Sea, tomorrow in Crete, in the Aegean Sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u206	Thank you. Please, some attention in time. Now Mrs. Hara Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr Marinos will follow, immediately after Mr Katrinis and we will continue with the last cycle. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in this House, national issues are discussed, and it always has a particular importance. But what is required, gentlemen, is that our country must have a specific, engraved foreign policy, a foreign policy which must have the greatest degree of consensus, because it is about home, about our rights, our sovereign rights. Of course, this policy, with the consents that are needed, cannot be carved out by one person, even if this one is the Prime Minister. I come now and say, gentlemen of the New Democracy, this: Welcome to SYRIZA's positions! Yesterday's statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Dendia, on the extension of territorial waters south and east of Crete is a very serious issue, an issue that SYRIZA had raised in time - Progressive Alliance and the statement is a positive step. But our foreign policy requires strategic planning, seriousness and long-term consistency, I would say. It does not want the foreign political movement of spasmist, excitement movements, communication "smarts" - within introductory terms the word "the air took the research vessel" or "does not investigate the research vessel because there is noise", which is highly and unscientific or other unscientific statements of the style "you changed the Prespecies with pensions", which were called the top officials of the New Democracy, when in the rule of the country was SYRIZA, after the Prespecies's agreement, which are now honorable and correct. Furthermore, when SYRIZA wanted and prepared the arrangement for the territorial waters and EOZ in the Ionian Sea, the statements made at the time that you "separate Greece in two" or when the statements of the style "letterings, nationalism" were heard, etc., made by top government officials. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, ladies and gentlemen, it is a responsible political force, firmly in favour of the national line, which safeguards our national sovereign rights, and has handled difficult cases - I am referring to the Ambassadors' Agreement - chronic situations that we daring in very difficult conditions - we had memorials at that time - and we have managed and managed today, despite the cries of the opposition of that time, and the government honours this agreement. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance travels with the line of national dignity, not the line of submissiveness. We call for a meeting of the Council of Political Heads, for the parties to be informed, for the Greek people to be informed how we are going to the exploratory and what is the foreign policy planning of this government. Prime Minister Mitsotakis would say that he is coming relatively'strengthened' - in introductory terms the word - at these meetings, because he has not been able for eighteen months - to convince the European Union of some sanctions against Turkey following what has happened, especially in the past summer, months, days when Orutch Rajass has been challenging the Aegean Sea. It is therefore necessary to design a foreign policy based on international law, the Law of the Sea and that these two elements are unnegotiable and any solution that must be based on this. Because a lot of talk is being made about the Law of the Sea, I will say that it is not a simple matter, it is a product of efforts by the international community, so that we can end up there. After the cod war, the international community's efforts lasted twenty years. Finally, they benefited from the Convention on the Law of the Sea, the Montego Bay Convention, in 1982, which more than a hundred sixty countries signed the relevant Convention, which entered into force in 1994. I will say here that Turkey has not signed the Law of the Sea. At the same time, de facto recognizes it, declaring territorial waters 12 miles in the Black Sea. It defines rights of coastal states in areas beyond the sovereignty of territorial waters, recognises areas of influence of each state and clarifies exclusive rights. The Convention on the Law of the Sea lays down rules on relations between States, defining limits of jurisdiction and exploitation of natural resources, but it is characteristic that it promotes regional and international cooperation. The important obligation of the coastal state, however, on the basis of the Law of the Sea, is the need to protect the marine environment and the good condition of fish stocks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We believe that the Ministry of the Environment is lacking today in this draft law, because Article 56(b) states the protection of the natural environment, Article 61 (conservation of live resources), the second part of Article 116 (b) of fishing rights in the open sea, and here is an issue with this draft law which we are discussing. Recent initiatives, ratification of contracts for the exploitation of hydrocarbons, the Mercury Convention, the ratification of EastMed contracts, the cleaning of EEZs with Italy - Egypt make the need for ratification of a particular number of international conventions and protocols, first of all, the Barcelona Protocol. The incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive 30/2013 is not enough, but there must be specific additions, Minister, with the Barcelona Protocol, Article 7 on biodiversity and protected areas, 8 on offshore activities, 9 on integrated coastal management. Is the government prepared to settle open issues, such as fishing rights? This is a very serious issue, and it is also about the bill that we are discussing. We have asked a parliamentary question as SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance for the Barcelona Protocol and what needs to be added, international conventions, and the answer of the then Minister for the Environment, Mr Hatzidakis, was: "At this stage the ratification file is in the political leadership and we will judge when we will relaunch it in Parliament." We believe, of course, that the new leadership of the RIS will be seen, but that is also an issue which, of course, also relates to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Finally, a concrete, planned, foreign policy of the country is required and everything is done on the basis of international rules. Foreign policy requires a wider consensus. So by voting for SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance today it gives a responsible opposition, which is not cries and algae, as some others once did, but is responsible for opposition. I would like to point out, once again, that foreign policy is not carved out by one. Consents are required more extensively for the good of the country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u208	Thank you. Mr Marinos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u209	For ten minutes, we had been informed of the denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u210	There will be a tolerance of time, but the President has informed me that we will have to go to five minutes with tolerance. I'm not just doing it for you, I'm doing it for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. The Communist Party of Greece, both in committee and in plenary, refers in particular to the bill on the extension of the kayalitis zone and substantiates the vote of the 'Paris'. It takes into account that expansion is a right arising from the International Convention on the Law of the Sea and is exercised within the framework of an anti-popular policy which has serious consequences for our people. The fineness of bills and the overall situation experienced by the people is a constant tactic of urban parties and governments, representing the great interests and trying to cover this strategic choice behind unfounded claims. This has been done all these years by the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA. This has also been done these days in the bill for the expansion of the gynaecitis zone. Government celebrations will retreat. In practice, the position of the JRC, which renders the mistakes and conscientiousness of the JRC and calls on the people not to give tolerance, not to consent to the anti-grassroots policy and the system, which stumbles on his needs and is enough to take his bite out of his mouth. The design of economic groups to exploit energy land to increase their profits will remain from the kayalitis zone. The people will be face to face with the raw reality. The deep capitalist crisis and the heavy consequences of the capital attack on the working class, the bio-opportunist farmers and the self-employed, the wages and hunger pensions, high unemployment and unbearable taxes remain. The disastrous state of the public health system remains, the tragic deficiencies in hospitals and primary care, the deterioration of the education of students and students, the provocative bill of government, which puts a thousand police officers in universities, to control and suppress the student movement. It will remain the bill that abolishes the eighth hour and imposes a ten-hour, settlement and unpaid overtime fee. Imperialist competitions and wars remain in our neighbourhood, the dangerous plans of NATO, the United States and the European Union in competition with Russia and China, the involvement of our country in the infrastructure created by the New Democracy Government and the previous governments, parties supporting this strategy. It remains the continuation of the confrontation of Greece and Turkey's urban classes on geostrategic upgrading in the region, which makes the two people adventures. There was a lot of talk about the exploratory talks between the Greek and Turkish Governments, about the relations between the two countries. The aggression of the Turkish bourgeoisie and the Erdogan government are manifested in diverse ways. The threat of war, the question of the sovereignty of Greek islands and the borders of the Aegean Sea is in line with the interventions in Syria, Libya, the Caucasus and the Greek bourgeoisie and the governments, representing its interests, are not innocent pigeon. The aggression of the Greek bourgeoisie is expressed in a variety of economic, political and military terms, through the aim of geostrategic upgrading, its design and the relationship with the United States, NATO and the European Union. It is expressed, for example, through the Souda base, on which US destroyers and aircraft were supplied, which launched missiles against the Syrian people and other peoples. It is expressed through the participation of parts of the Greek armed forces, aircraft, warships, weapons systems on imperialistic missions abroad. The claim that the policy of involvement in imperialist designs helps deal with Turkey's aggression is completely unfounded. The examples are many. When the Greek governments support Israel, which retains the occupation of Palestinian territories, they objectively provide Turkey with supplies of possession in Cyprus. When the Government gives Saudi Arabia military intervention to Yemen's Patriot missiles, it gives pretexts to Turkey and the Erdogan government for the interventions in Syria and Libya. In the conditions of our country's involvement in Euro-Atlantic design, crises occur over time in Greek-Turkish relations. The tension in the Aegean is escalating and Cyprus is walking towards the partition. All this is a strong basis for our people to draw conclusions. The fact is that the United States, NATO and the European Union maintain strategic relations with Turkey, they seek at all costs to maintain it in the Western camp, to become an integral part of the forces of Euro-atlanticism in competition with Russia, China and Iran. These objectives are undeniable. They are recorded through the naval declarations, declarations and practice, followed by NATO Secretary-General Mr Stoltenberg. They have been recorded through a large number of American operators' visits to the neighbouring country, through the European Union's strong economic military relations with Turkey, with the attitude of Germany, Italy, Spain, at the European Union summit in December, which authorised the government, as was the case in the previous period. It is not only Mr Maas, the German Foreign Minister, who did not respond to the provocative statements made by Cavusoglu, but overall the European Union's staff are in the same or similar position. Behind the repeated urge for dialogue, it is not a bad thing to find a fair solution to the demarcation of maritime economic zones, but to seek to re-examine the rich production sources in the region, for the benefit of the European and American energy colostrums. In order to enhance its position in the region and implement the Euro-Atlantic goals, they will not hesitate to sacrifice sovereign rights as Iphigenia on the altar of their own interests. This reality must be taken into account by our people, not entangled in this argument that creates false expectations and which will be strengthened after the oath of Mr Biden, but is well known that the democratic Clinton and Obama have been dismantled by Yugoslavia and thousands of people have been killed in the Balkan region. In the rule of democratic Obama there have been the wars in the Middle East, the consequences of which have been kept to this day. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, Mr President, we very soon want to raise a serious issue. The end of March is the end date of application of Directive 89/2014 of the European Union on spatial planning of maritime zones and this Directive has been incorporated into Greek legislation in 2018. As we have heard, the issue is handled by the Ministry of the Environment, but there is no information whether something has been done and we know how the directive provides for consultation even with neighbouring states. For the European Union's hypocritical position on environmental protection, we have been placed, but we are putting it today, because it concerns maritime zones and is linked to Turkish claims in the Aegean and therefore we need information. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u212	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, will now take the floor, followed by Mrs Sakorafa. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is disappointing, I would say sad, what happened today, at a critical time for the country, perhaps the most critical of recent years, where national consensus has been sought as much as ever, and conditions of unity in both the debate in committee and yesterday's debate in plenary yesterday, at the initiative of the Prime Minister and the help of the Chief of Civilian counter-population, all this debate being transformed into a ball of responsibility and, indeed, backwards in the past. Mr. Mitsotakis remembered in 2011, where, of course, Mr. Tsipras was in the lower square at that time, but he must not forget that his party and his resignation were the ones who gave the urban alibi to an initial movement, which was manipulated in the course to lead to situations and vulnerabilities that both today condemned with a delay of ten years. We see the government starting with the Law of the Sea, the international legality of Greek-Turkish, as the previous government did four years ago and the New Democracy accused her of self-determination. As an opposition to bars, as a government that is legitimate and consistent. And while specifically the limits on foreign policy capacity, the limits on foreign policy use for communication purposes, indicate that they are vast for the parties. I say this because we heard the Foreign Minister say yesterday that it is the first extension of the national space since 1947, the Prime Minister, who has been abusing him for the third time, if I am not mistaken, in this Chamber, that we are raising the country. Since we have turned the time back, we can see whether this strategy, which is being followed by the government in national affairs today, can be compared to the strategy twenty-five years ago. And I am talking about the period 1994-1995, when the PASOK Government decides, apart from the strong and unnegotiable line on the right to twelve nautical miles, to try to redefining relations between Greece and Turkey, by changing the context of confrontation between Greece and Turkey, by exploiting the dynamics of European unification. In this context, the veto will be lifted in March 1995 for the customs union of Turkey with the European Union, taking a date for the opening of negotiations on the accession of Cyprus to the European Union, ensuring the progress of the Republic of Cyprus and on the other hand the operation of a process of Europeanisation, restriction and, as far as possible, control of Turkish aggression, without turning back on matters of sovereignty and sovereign rights. Greece will ratify, at the same time, the Convention on the Law of the Sea, energising the decision of the Turkish National Assembly and the Casus belli. It is precisely the period when Andreas Papandreou will make the well-known and heavier intervention at a press conference, the Cannes Summit, where he will speak about Turkey, directly putting issues of democracy in the development of the European Union. The next PASOK government with Costas Simitis will move in the same multidimensional direction, without concessions to Turkey, facing difficult situations. You remember with the Immigration Crisis the New Democracy MPs who were protesting. Really, I wonder if it would be twenty-five years later and they would listen to Mr Gerapetti talking about a red line at six nautical miles, what would their reaction be? Although there were pressures, as with the Madrid Agreement, it will nevertheless succeed at the Helsinki Summit in deciding to join the Republic of Cyprus and will launch the process of exploratory contacts with Turkey with a view to 2004. A process of dynamic, rationalisation of bilateral relations, defence of territorial sovereignty, sovereign rights of the country to land, sea and air, to dynamic conditions at that time. Unfortunately, the Government of the New Republic of Karamanlis, which followed, implemented the so-called 'Imovability Structure', leaving the Helsinki Process and closing the window of opportunity, opened by the foreign policy of the PASOK Governments, which is inappropriate in dynamic conditions of geopolitical and geo-economic mobility, and this was then seen. Turkey since 1913 gradually and emphatically since 1916 has been moving between external over-expansion and deep internal crisis. Her aggression has risen sharply and certainly with constant military challenges and interventions, which have been heard in this Chamber in both days and, of course, with clear Turkish re-examination events aimed at revising the Lausanne Treaty of the great uproot of 1922, a drama of refugee and uprooting, which the Greek diplomacy at that time with Eleftherios Venizelos again has managed to maintain Greece's sovereignty in the Aegean, despite military defeat, and that is what we need to remember. This is what Turkey is trying to overturn with its unscrupulous claims. Ladies and gentlemen, Turkey's declared goal is after the wall of Nicosia and the partition of Cyprus to build the wall and divide the Aegean in the 25th mediterranean, to cut off the islands of the northeast Aegean and the Dodecanese from the rest of the country. And that is why he denies the Law of the Sea, and of course speaks of the illegal position regarding the absence of a continental continent. Greece today as much as it ever needs from a multi-dimensional policy in modern conditions. In this context, the question of Greek-Turkish should be reintroduced as a Turkish problem at international and European meetings. Multifaceted alliances are needed with the countries of the Middle East, the Mediterranean, the Balkans and, of course, agreements such as the one that we have never received an official response, defence aid with France in the event of Turkish provocation, international intervention for the continuous and inhumane operation of the migration-refugee from the neighbouring country, participation in exploratory contacts on the basis of the only legal difference to delimit the continental continent and the AEZ. Finally, systematic preparation, diplomatic, political, defenceal for exercising the right of sovereignty for the implementation of the twelve miles in the Aegean Sea. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to twelve nautical miles is a historic right to the Greek people and not, of course, to the ruling class, as unpreparedly formulated by one, let me say, false left rhetoric. The twelve nautical miles is the right of the Greek people who, as long as they do not exercise, are weakened and their exercise becomes more and more difficult. History, geography and international law define it and ensure it. It is an act of peace, democracy, justice, legality and development. The rest formulated by our neighbours moves to the irrationality of a Turkish pathology, a product of an imperial era that has not existed for a hundred years and the eruption of which had begun two hundred years ago with the heroic struggle of the Greek Revolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u214	Thank you. Now Mrs Sophia Sakova has the floor from Mera25 for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u215	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Ladies and gentlemen, I said in my first place that the great self-righteous rhetoric of the 'we are raising the country' has nothing to do with reality, but they are also foolish. I believe that you should thank the good times because you do not have an opposition to you to address the definition of territorial waters in the Ionian Sea with the irresponsibility that you have made it as an opposition, but that is not because of you at all, it is simply because of our responsibility. You, the supposedly responsible, have described it as an unprecedented urgency, an act of partial expansion that undermines the fundamental positions of our foreign policy and that it enables Turkey to insist that the Aegean is a special case where the Law of the Sea cannot be fully implemented. The reality is that, even if we are late, even partially, we are exercising a given and self-evident sovereign right and that is what we are dealing with at the outset positively, so we will not imitate you to begin the redemption and irresponsibility arrangements with treason and all the same. The reality is very clear. Greece now exercises, even in part only, the national sovereign rights granted to all states by the UN International Convention on the Law of the Sea. It goes without saying that today's positive attitude involves the assumption that this move is a first and only step in the sovereign definition of the country's hayalitis. If we thought this movement would not be followed up, if the definition of the yacht were to begin and end in the Ionian Sea, clearly and clearly we would vote against it. And we wouldn't be moved by your fictitious rhetoric for Greece. That is why yesterday's statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Tyres from the Step of the House, on the imminent definition of the gyalitis zone throughout Crete, is also important. We want to point out again that, in the direction of exercising our respective sovereign rights, it should be immediately as a necessary move to set up the baselines and close the tricks for the whole territory. We know, however, that there is a risk that today's extension will be used as an advance counterweight for any retreats in the forthcoming talks with Turkey, which, of course, we are abstaining, as we are avoiding today, the variability of our territorial waters, not temporarily but permanently. We shall restore, in order to avoid misunderstandings, our absolute opposition to Article 4 concerning the indiscriminate and a priori granting of a right of exploitation in the field of our national sovereignty towards foreign fishing and, indeed, without reciprocity. We will once again highlight our serious concern at the timing of the discussions with Turkey and Albania on maritime zones, because the first can use the second as an additional lever to achieve its own objectives and there is a possibility that we may also face deliberate paradoxes. I also spoke in my first position about the failure and inefficiency of the Greek political alliance. One cannot overlook the provocative silence of Germany's Foreign Minister on the threats of war that his Turkish counterpart launched before him. I need to remind you of the main title of his department's website in Berlin on the night of the clean Monday last year. You all remember very well what happened to Evros then. Do you know what the page was about? 'Solidarity with Turkey', he wrote. The worst thing is that we should not be surprised by the silence of the German Foreign Minister. What we should probably be more afraid of is the moment that will break his silence. The geostrategic interests of Germany and Turkey are always interconnected and their strong economic interdependence is timeless. Today they both have review targets. The taking up of a dictatorial role from Berlin for the Greek-Turkish dialogue does not provide a basis for any Greek optimism, ladies and gentlemen. At the same time, none of us can overlook that the constant deterioration of the Cypriot data is also part of the synchronism. The messages are also very worrying with all kinds of pressures on the Cyprus side, let alone since the UN is making moves towards the degradation of the Republic of Cyprus. I would like to point out that the UNFICYP report is constantly referring to 'Greek Cypriot authorities' and 'Turkish Cypriot authorities', while avoiding the use of the official name Cyprus. They are now equating an officially recognised state with the product of a violation of international legality. Ladies and gentlemen, the times are not easy and they do not allow for rest inexorable self-confirmations and - I will repeat - foolish celebrations. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u216	You, Madam President, were more than formal. You had a free ten-minute conversation. You didn't need them. Now Mr. Ioannis Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u217	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the historic responsibility of all of us voting for a bill which enables Greece not only to become greater, as the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs have said, but in my opinion, and stronger. Stronger in the face of the exploratory contacts, which start in five days from now between Greece and Turkey, with the sole object of finding a solution at last to the issues of maritime zones, the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zones, because that is the only issue for the two countries. The conversation should be over here. We all agree on that. From what I understand, the whole Opposition agrees and will vote for this bill, with the exception of the JRC that will vote'residents'. But why are we having such a big debate and it came to be at 7 p.m. and the debate started at 11 p.m.? Because we weren't there alone. We went further and further. "Yes, we agree" says the Opposition and in particular SYRIZA "but if you had accepted it before...". Greece's right to extend the yacht zone from six to twelve nautical miles is a right that has it by law passed in application of the Law of the Sea more than twenty-five years ago. Greece has not applied this all these years. In my opinion, that right has not been exercised at that time. In my opinion, it is right to do so now and partly tomorrow and more fully, because this is a right, which is applied when judged in accordance with the national interest. The national interest in previous years said that this right should not be exercised. Now it is considered that it should be partially exercised, starting from western Greece, later Crete and - why not? - if appropriate, also in the Aegean region. But all this will appear along the way, not now. This is an important point which we must make, and this has also been demonstrated by the long-term controversy with Turkey over the last few months. In very difficult circumstances, Greece has endured not only the government but it has been able to turn the unfavourable climate, and today it can talk to the other side not only as equal but, in my opinion, even stronger than when this crisis started. The accident, however, is that although the Opposition quite rightly - and good for it - defends and supports the bill and will vote - and that is where we should have finished it, because, in fact, national consensus on foreign policy is above all - I am sorry to see in the speech made by the Honourable Chief of Police, Mr Tsipras, that he is trying to get caught by a number of minor things, which, in my opinion, are miserable, such as the issue of the Prespecies' Agreement. Indeed, we did not support the Presidencies' agreement and we did not support it. I think it is a bad deal. However - and Mr Tsipras said so - we did not call them any traitors or the treacherous agreement. Neither Mitsotakis nor I, nor Dendias, who is here, did not call you any traitors or anything. I said it was a bad deal that shouldn't have been implemented. And that's right. It shouldn't have been implemented. At the moment, however, we have said so from the outset - that Parliament would ratify this agreement, unfortunately, we had to... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] The benches are broken, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u218	With what's heard here!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u219	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u220	We are obliged to implement it, as Mr Mitsotakis said, as Head of the opposition officer since it was unfortunately ratified by Parliament. Finally, I would like to refer to something that I personally was bitterly bitter about, what Mr Tsipras said. In an effort that we all want to get close to and find what we are united, rather than what we are separated, Mr. Tsipras tried to blame the New Democracy this morning because, supposedly, some who participated in the two years ago - I think it was just two years ago - a rally against the Prespecies Agreement, had turned and tried to invade Parliament. Two years ago, there was a big rally. Hundreds of thousands of people have participated in this, including myself with my then minor son - and I am proud to have participated - to protest against an agreement that should have never been passed, like many others from New Democracy. No one from the New Democracy has attempted to enter Parliament illegally. Some bouncers, holsters, bums - and I don't know what - they were, which we pointed out in time. I personally asked the police director to intervene and isolate them and he didn't do it then. As a result of this behavior of fifty people, we received tear gas on Hermos Street, where we were. That's how the grand rally was dismantled then against the deal. I remember no more invasion of Parliament than the 'Rubics' invasion. Do you remember her or did you forget her? Do You Remember? The paints here behind Parliament still exist. Then they were arrested and released - I don't know if you saw them - and they were taken home by taxi as written in the press of the time. They've been released. Then there was an invasion of Parliament. Do you remember the hangs? Do you remember "Blood, Burning..." - not to say - "The House"? That is not what the neo-democratics said. The neo-democrats would never say that, because we respect the institutions, respect democracy and respect Parliament above all, which expresses democracy. Do you still remember the archers outside the House? They were not neo-democratic. We do not want the institutions to be undermined. We want to strengthen the institutions. We believe in parliamentaryism, we believe in democracy. We also call on you, dear friends and friends of SYRIZA, to come to us and finally show that democracy in this place is very strong and can withstand anyone who is hosting it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u221	Ms Sia Anagnostopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA. However, those who have lived either in 2009 or 2011, either the Skopje events, are a great experience and are mainly experienced by those outside the events, whether in 2009 or 2010. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. I avoid then having difficulty working on the facts and who tried to get in and who did not try to get in the House. Let me just remind you about the story that a left man never killed a teacher. This was done by the President of EMU in Patras against Temponera. To put things in place a little bit. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Today we are discussing a bill which all the political forces, except the JRC that will vote 'the present', we agree that it is good, that it is a right of sovereignty of the country that can exercise it, etc. In this debate that has been held in both committees and today and yesterday in plenary, it shows what is for the Right, however, and how the national interest is defined. I am surprised to hear the Prime Minister, I have listened to most of the Members of the New Democracy, fortunately not the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Treasury, who defines the national interest as an interest defined by the New Democracy alone. That is, that in a bill prepared - or not - by SYRIZA to insulate the national interest that the New Democracy defines itself is the epitome of the Right. If we are talking about the Prespecies Agreement and about the extension to twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea on the Government of SYRIZA, it is not, Mr Loverdo, because we have misery and we want to make misery and all that. I would not even refer to the Prespecies Agreement, nor to the twelve nautical miles on our own government, if only the New Democracy, in the view that it is not such a good deal, voted against. Go! Go! Go! In this House, I will not only refer to these treasons and "Mr. Tsipras, for dare to go up to Thessaloniki" by Mr. Mitsotakis. I'll put it aside. I would refer to one thing that the central speech here on behalf of the New Democracy was made by former Prime Minister, who reviewed the entire Greek history and mobilised the anger of this society and the name of the nation created a huge national division. "Macedonia is one and it is only Greek" was not deleted and here it should have been the self-criticism of the New Democracy. I have to say that at those difficult times - because it was difficult, this is not how history is being revised, because it creates enormous divisions - only one man from New Democracy had the courage to rise and say that "Macedonia is not one and it is not only Greek" and it was Mr. Dendias. And that's what I have to say. So when the national interest was defined under these revision conditions, here in this House today, a single mention should be made, by the Prime Minister, not by anyone else. Not to come to us today and tell us that the story starts when the New Democracy took over. For the twelve nautical miles, none of the New Republic's reactents raised a question of timing, as to whether it should have been a predatory decision. No, that's not the point. It was put on the ground, namely that we should not extend the twelve nautical miles to the Ionian Sea, because this is a partial decision and it strengthens Turkey and all of this. It was essentially on the point. It was essentially on an issue that SYRIZA's government's policy did a great deal. And that's what you have to admit. It's broken the inertia of foreign policy. From this breakthrough of inaction we are today to vote on a bill that has indeed been created, launched, the SYRIZA government. The Prespecies Agreement is precisely the big break with a nationalist fearful syndrome, which, unfortunately, has produced your own party. So we agree. In what we agreed as a government we cannot as a Qualified Opposition come and say 'no, the national interest', because we think we have the monopoly. Why would you understand, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that for us patriotism is the country's interest, which is defined democratically and transparently, with a debate. It is not a monopoly of neither SYRIZA nor the JRC nor the New Democracy nor the Mer25 nor anyone. It is democratically and transparently defined. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So let's go to the investigative contacts now. You will allow me two minutes, Mr President, because in the committees we could not speak because of a digital deficit, there was a problem. With regard to the exploratory contacts, if we really want - and we should like - our country to be a country and a body of peace and stability in the region, in these exploratory contacts what will be discussed, if it is discussed and if it comes to a promise, it must be made transparently and democratically. To have national unity, there must also be procedures that lead there. Watch out. By shouting today for national unity, this is not the way it is conquered. National unity presupposes social consensus. We cannot have a society in which there is a national consensus, which you are so brinkling. The Prime Minister also said that "national unity has been widened today". That's a little ID and paradox. It either exists or it doesn't exist. So in exploratory contacts, what we are interested in is not to adapt our own interests to the interests of power and then come here to say that 'why does Germany not say', as if we do not understand what is going on, but the cracks that allow us to take advantage of them for what we consider to be a national interest. And we must define it democratically and I will insist on it. I'll just close two words. To claim peace as a national interest is the most stabilising and handshakeing factor both for the people in the region and for the Turkish people, especially for the democratic forces. We must also claim that within the European Union. The attitude of the German Minister for Foreign Affairs is more disturbing to me at this level that the European Union cannot be a body of peace. We must make 'browns' there. One last word - last word.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u223	Please, my colleague. You've reached eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u224	I'm sorry, Mr. President. We need in this House to discuss the Cyprus issue. The two states are 'floorstone' for the future of the whole region and we should not put that aside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u225	We're continuing with Mr. Palphie now. Mr. Paphie, you have the floor for five minutes, with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u226	I am not tempted, due to time, to comment on the facts and attacks in 2011, 2012 and later on neither the level of the political speech: "German giraffes" on the one hand, "prostitutes" on the other hand, "creams" and all the others, which, of course, were made to hide the fact that the memorials and all the rest were the birth of the system itself, the crisis of the capitalist system. On this issue - because I do not want to take time - both the Secretary-General of our party and our rapporteur, George Marinos, and the speakers have spoken in detail and with arguments about our position, but more generally about the situation. We didn't hear an answer. We therefore call on the people with coolness and objectivity not to be trapped in the "Koreas" about the greatness of Greece and all the rest, but to judge on the basis of their experience all these years and on the basis of the situation that has been formed. Of course, it is Greece's right to extend territorial waters and we always say that. However, this issue cannot be dealt with out of developments in the region, particularly in recent years, but also in the past, and we cannot deal with it, secondly, out of what policy and what interests the policy, which has been followed by all the governments, serves. Politics was anti-popular, it was at the expense of the people's strata, they plunged the world all these years in favor of capital. You know, as the Prime Minister admitted, there is no outdated foreign policy from internal policy, it is unified. And, with these criteria, we are also considering them. I shall refer to a number of arguments. We ask the following question: why the country's self-evident right to extend its territorial waters to twelve miles, stemming from the international treaty on the Law of the Sea, has not been exercised twenty-five years ago. Why? No one's responding. Why didn't all governments do it? What do you think? "The conditions were not mature, while they have now matured." And here is the fight: SYRIZA says "We started..." - the classic, that is, the game - "No, we..." - says the New Democracy - "You did nothing." In fact, however, it is the same strategy. Did the circumstances change? Are they better? We call on the workers and the people to think together and respond with facts what has happened, to what has changed since 1996 in the wider region of the south-eastern Mediterranean. First, imperialist aggression has been exacerbated. So, what do you want to call it? Not to call it "imperialist", when NATO, USA, etc. Did they wage wars? Did they launch a yes or no? Iraq, Libya, Syria, intensity of threats to Iran. Who did all this, ladies and gentlemen? Who slain people? Who sent them to poverty, misery, deadlock? Who overthrowed governments and tried to overthrow others - we did not agree with them, but that was the right of the people - in the name of democracy? Really, Saudi Arabia, the great ally, the United Arab Emirates and all the darkness that exists, are they democrats? So one has changed that, for oil, for transport roads - unless you tell us that they did it for other reasons, which we will at least be idiots if we believe it - attacks were launched, wars, a lot of blood has been spilled, the region has changed. And you're talking about stability and security? Well, aren't you ashamed? This is where killing's been happening all over these years. Who will apologise for the millions of dead, the millions of displaced persons, for the millions of disasters in various countries? So it changed for the worse. Secondly, it opened up the issue of the exploitation of maritime deposits and, of course, the control of transport routes in the eastern Mediterranean as a whole, but also in the Aegean. What happened? Agreements have been made with oil companies. Who did it? SYRIZA and New Democracy ratified them. And, indeed, you have come to the level of shame not to vote on your own agreements. How does that work? It affects the fact that great interests of colossals have now been created, which are now pressing for certain things to be sorted out temporarily, to start taking the look. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you've put me five minutes. Thirdly, the competition between the major imperialist forces has increased. There's a mess in the area. The United States, countries of the European Union, Russia, China and regional forces are colluding in the control of wealthy production sources, geostrategic, if you wish, control and, of course, control over the control of roads. Are these better conditions? Let everyone listen to us. Fourthly, Turkish aggression against Greece has increased. And now-- where's PASOK? - Don't do that to us. Helsinki, Madrid. Do you remember them or do we have lotus? It created the possibility for Turkey to "root" the Aegean, to talk about vital interests, etc. Therefore, Turkish aggression has been exacerbated with the backs of your allies. Fifthly, Greece, which is bound by the American chariot and the European Union, in these years it has participated and actively participated in the imperialist plans. Is it true or not? Where didn't he go? Afghanistan? Where didn't he go? Iraq? Where didn't he go? Mali now? Where doesn't it go? Where the allies ask her. Really, is that our national interests? Is that where they're serving? Greece is still involved and has been converted - take the map of the Greek people to see him - on a vast American basis and you are preparing to give new ones with the American expansion and approval for five years. We say this: Greece is not dragged from the Americans and the strong ones. Oh, no. The interests of business groups, Greeks, as they incorporated the country into NATO and the European Union, are served through the imperialist plans, to take part in the division, that is, in the pretext that will be shared in the region. Is that a lie or a truth? This is the notorious and so-called 'national strategy', which you say does not exist. What are you talking about? The criticism of SYRIZA and the Change Movement in New Democracy is that it does not have a national strategy. Excuse me, may I ask you something? Where do you differ? Are you with the Americans, yes or no? What if you're saying? You took off. Championship. And SYRIZA and the Change Movement. Are you with NATO, yes or no? Are you in the interests of capital, yes or no? What's the difference? The argument is who will manage these interests and who will help to upgrade the interests of the Greek capital that passes through the blood of the people and possibly the Greek people. Therefore, the argument is that the circumstances have changed. They changed, but they got worse. And now because they got worse and because the big knives came out, you get into the game with 12 miles. Not that we're saying you didn't want it. So many years why didn't you do it? Now, then, that's the point. And, of course, you're saying that now - we'll see you in more detail - you have alliances. I'm starting with the alliances you've got. With who? Israel. Attacking state, killers in the area. Arab Emirates. Same. Saudi Arabia. Same. What, really, do the Patriots want - we ask you again, to tell us here publicly - in Saudi Arabia? Who are they pointing at? Do they aim for Iran or not? What's the problem with Iran that's thousands of miles away? Not that we agree with the regime, etc. Do we have a problem? Oh, no. But the United States has a problem with NATO, its 'Southeastern Wing', which wants Iran as a next target. What is the problem with Russia, which, after all, the only one who made a clearer statement was Lavrov? We're not with Russia. It's capitalist Russia. But do you or do you not participate in Russia's curiosity with NATO and the American military plans? Participate to the bounces. Secondly, 'We are right on our part and we have international support'. Mrs Bakoyannis said so. That's a joke. In fact, only as a joke can we get it. Let's see: NATO, Stoltenberg: Has he ever taken a clear position? She doesn't know where the Greek border is? Didn't he know about it the night of the Imian, for example? He knows very well. Why doesn't he take a seat? Because he is interested in keeping Turkey and he does not even care where the borders are, because he considers it a single operational area. The United States, which you celebrate, Byden, etc.: Who took a clear position? "Find it," they say with common interest, because they have huge economic interests and because they want to keep Turkey in the west tank. The European Union: When I hear them say that it has fear, it is a mockery against the Greek people. Has the European Union taken a clear position? Did he put sanctions? You say, "The borders of Greece, Europe's borders." But when Greece's airspace is being violated, when the borders are being disputed, what is it doing for so long? It whistles indifferently and supports and is now rekindling relations with Turkey. What international support are you talking about? European, it says, acquis. Tell us, didn't you all say that if Cyprus enters the European Union, will this end? Where's he going? For partitioning. Really, the borders of Cyprus, the sea and the EEZ of Cyprus are not European borders? Why did he not do anything when Turkey violated them, as did Greece? Because it serves its own interests, because its own monopolies want to enter the region and they don't care about anything else. Finally, you say - and the government and the other parties too, despite the differentiations - that this 12-mile extension has a strategy, that we have made the agreements before and now move on with it. We want to ask you some questions. Did you and Italy sign an agreement with a reduced influence on the islands, yes or no? Yeah. With Egypt: Egypt 56% and us 44%. Yes or no? With Albania, we don't know where you're going to The Hague, which is the sword of justice and the independent court.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Colleague, you've reached twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u228	I'm done. Okay, that's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u229	Well, we know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u230	If they complain, let the MPs say so here. So we ask objectively: Turns the ground or creates, if you want, pretexts - so as not to make too hard a review - both in Turkey and elsewhere, that, anyway, since you have a reduced influence here, since you have 56% -44%, so we can also give the Aegean Sea a solution?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u232	And you remember that Turkey's Minister for Foreign Affairs welcomed the first agreement with Italy. The road is another.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u233	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u234	It's the street of the people against this imperialist barbarism. It is the organization of the struggle of the people for another society. Because war is an element of the system itself in the whole history of humanity. That is why we call on the Greek people to build their own forehead with other peoples for another society. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u235	Thank you. Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much, Mr President. Although SYRIZA's colleague, Mrs Anagnostopoulou after the end of her speech left, I would like to make a comment on what she said before I started my speech. Because he referred to both the ONNED and Patras. He is a colleague from Achaia and remembered a tragic moment in Patras and Greece and did not think of saying to us: What did he do four and a half years as a MP for our Achaia? Instead of bringing it up and remembering something that happened thirty years ago - that no one ever welcomed - to tell us something positive that he did for our region. And take care of how he speaks - I would say from this Step - of the largest political, party youth in our country, which is among the largest in Europe. Because as an educator, it should be more careful when it comes to thousands of young people, who time-consumingly make their struggle in society, in universities. It's very bad from a teacher who associates young people to leave such a hint all these years later. I'm so sorry about my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u237	Was the youth you invoke now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u238	Please, Mr. Comrade! Doesn't he have a right? Mrs. Alexopoulou speaks...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, it is your responsibility and you have omitted it...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Catrugale!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u241	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u242	No, I won't listen to you. You have no right to stop the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u243	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u244	Please, Mr. Catrugale. Mrs Alexopoulou speaks and tells her opinion. My colleague or the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has the opportunity to speak afterwards and say what he wants, as is happening for anyone. I don't understand you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u245	I was clear, Mr. Catrugale. It is a day of celebration, a historic day for our Parliament, for the Greek Parliament and such a petition was very unfortunate by my fellow Member of the Achaea. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said, today is a very special day for the Greek Parliament. And I feel very lucky and very proud to be able to address from this Step, from the Step of the House, both to the Greek delegation and to the Greek people at a historic meeting such as this. So today we are voting on a bill with enormous geopolitical, diplomatic and economic importance, which represents our absolute commitment to the implementation of International Law and the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. With this as a foundation stone Greece safeguards its rights, secures its interests and increases its national sovereignty. The delimitation of the maritime zones in the Ionian Sea and the extension of the yacht to the twelve nautical miles is a huge success for the Prime Minister and his Government. Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Dendias with carefully engraved strategy, with determination, method and effectiveness, close all the loose ends where the previous ones remained in statements of impressive and fragmentary statements. The Greeks are aware of this as a whole. I would also be expecting colleagues from the Vice-President to find the courage to admit it. With hard work, we have regained our right to Europe and the world. We have gained economic stability and we demand the confidence of investors and markets. We have been an example of this lately dealing with the coronary pandemic. This government dares to face face to face with the difficult and every field of action we gain ground. Today we are literally winning it. Western Greece is growing. Greece is growing. Ladies and gentlemen, the demarcation of maritime zones between Greece and Italy in the summer that passed us has closed a multi-annual cycle of negotiations between the two countries and has settled the loose ends between them in the most appropriate and beneficial way. The long-term cooperation of the Ministries and Government Staff on both sides, which has been quite successful, shows the effectiveness of international law when both parties come to the negotiating table with a sincere intent to resolve their disputes. The successful outcome of these negotiations is good practice and goes the way for subsequent agreements in the Mediterranean, which is a time-consuming pursuit of our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But sovereignly, this agreement confirms the right of islands to maritime zones and clearly recognises our sovereign rights. The exercise of our inalienable right, therefore, to extend the kayalitis zone to twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea, is a milestone in Greek political times. The government closes timeless loose ends in an integrated and extinct way with an active foreign policy which unlike the past creates developments rather than following them. It makes it clear that International Law is the appropriate and unique framework for the peaceful resolution of every major issue in the Mediterranean. We are acting responsibly, respecting our obligations, as they are imposed by international rules and, at the same time, we strongly defend our national interests. It is important to stress that this positive development is part of a wider national planning, a carefully engraved strategy by the Greek Government. Greece has recently made two legal and strong agreements to demarcate a maritime zone with Italy and Egypt, and we recently had the agreement with Albania on the joint referral of our differences to the Court of Justice of The Hague. At the same time we compiled a grid of cooperation with Arab countries, such as Saudi Arabia and Jordan. With Israel we have confirmed our meeting on a number of issues concerning both the concern about the situation in the Eastern Mediterranean and the interest of regional stability and security. And, of course, within methodical and very short periods, a significant strengthening of the deterrent capacity of the Greek Armed Forces has been achieved. As a stepping-up to our coordinated foreign and defence policy, we are soon moving towards exploratory contacts with Turkey. The government, as it has expressed with every tone, has been taking a constructive stand in order to put an end to an impediment to bilateral relations for decades. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, the real dialogue and the achievement of bilateral agreements between the Mediterranean countries is a guarantee of stability and prosperity for the region, which is recognised worldwide. The agreement between Greece and Italy, our understanding and understanding, is a model of good cooperation and an example to be imitated. National homogeneity on major national issues is a sign of political maturity and strengthens Greece's positions abroad. Today the government is not asking us to vote in favour of this bill. Today we are invited by the entire Greek people to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u246	The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mr Claus Gregoriadis, has the floor for five minutes with tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the moment there are still five speakers, the two seconds of the three special speakers and the Minister. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u247	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the extension of our yacht to the Ionian Sea to twelve nautical miles and I am sorry to say that, Mr Dendas, extremely reluctantly established, is nevertheless an exercise of our sovereign right, and therefore only Mera25 will vote in favour of it at first, and we will certainly vote against Article 4 of this agreement, you know, the article granting fishing rights between six and twelve nautical miles. This is where you will allow me to stand in the absurd, in my opinion. What was there before? Our Navy miles were six. The Italians couldn't fish on that. Now, we're making a great move. "Paliggenesia" was named by some MPs of the Coupling, "national moment", "expansion of Greece", "doubleness" and various things insanely we heard. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, we are finally expanding to twelve nautical miles in a place that is not threatened by anyone in particular, but we are exempting from the six newly developed Italians who can fish in them. But then we did - I am sorry to say this - a hole in the water, because, anyway, before today's agreement, which we are voting in favour at first, the Italians could reach six nautical miles from our islands. The same will be true now. So far, we're not fighting in this area. On the other hand, we must not forget that the current draft law comes here as a derivative of the Greek-Italy Agreement on the EEZ between the two countries. Let us remember that this agreement makes concessions to Italy on our part with regard to the influence of the Ionian Islands and the fishing rights, and - and that is, of course - the important thing in our opinion at Mera25 at the very depth of what is systematically concealed, which, of course, all the 'important Jerusalem's people are well aware of, is that the EEZ agreement is behind it - what else? - the oil interests of three or four large multinational Dutch, German and American companies. We voted against this agreement precisely because we are opposed to bilateral agreements with a diligent interest. This agreement, Minister, in our opinion, serves exclusively the interests of the Greek oligarchy, the oligarchy, you know, without frontiers - because it is Greek, but it is fine with the few other countries - which serves the interests of itself and not the peoples of the Greek or the peoples of our wider region. Following on from these bilateral negotiations at the same time, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are being intercepted and do not understand that you are entangled in the country at the same time. So tell us, at last, what are the red lines for you? Can I tell you who they are? We're afraid there's no red line. We are very afraid that your red lines are just the requirements of every time Berlin and Mrs Merkel. On the other hand, we have, of course, the Civic Opposition of our country, which is supposedly based on this whole context, but, beware, it knows in it that since 2015 it has been committed to follow and serve this context. If SYRIZA decided to raise a baby, he would take it up on matters much more seriously, such as the fact that half the Greek people have been starving for ten years. As soon as the Qualified Opposition was compromised in 2015 and said 'yes' to everything, automatically from that moment on - we are not masters, but it is more obvious - it would vote in favour or even bring this agreement. Let's not be fooled. You know, in the end, with two words, this extension agreement is not a bad agreement. It's a completely indifferent agreement. To understand it, it is just like now that your Government has won a wonderful batch of beds, but unfortunately, our country was invited to an international chess tournament and it is difficult, with difficult chess opponents. That's what happened. Look, for too long, for many decades now, we have known the Turkish aggression and the mood for expansion of this country. Let's not be fooled. Nowadays, in particular, where a dictator, a cherry fascist - let me speak - is taking the lead in the neighbouring country and democracy has been devastated for a long time, this aggression is becoming more and more aggression. So what have we done for so long in this state of aggression? You know what we did? We went and made a three-ethnic agreement with Israel and Cyprus to take advantage of four foreigners again our hydrocarbons, who - you know our position - should forever remain in the pitfalls of the earth for security and ecology. That's what you did. What does this also bring about with him? You were found to co-exist with Mr Netanyahu, a known serial killer of civilians and young children. Let me remind you that we wouldn't take anything. It would be 108 million in a decade's depth - to hear it and the Greek people - the benefits of this agreement on hydrocarbons and seventy-seven jobs, which would become thirty-two jobs as permanent later. This, however, gave neighboring Turkey a push to say: "You are squabbling without the hotel owner. We are also a country of the south-eastern Mediterranean and you cannot make agreements on our hydrocarbons absenteeism." This is how the new Turkish challenge began. Then what did you do? You went to Mrs Merkel and you anointed her as an Ombudsman and, unfortunately, for you it was soon proved that her interests were greater in Turkey than in Greece. As soon as you took it, you went to Mr. McCrone and said: 'You, come here, we'll get fresh fruits'. Once Mr. McCrone saw that we didn't get any freshmen, because the twelve used Rafales and the six new ones obviously didn't get enough, he stirred too. What's the only solution so we don't get fooled in here? The only realistic solution is the one it proposes, calling the Mera25 for a year. It is now the convening of a regional conference of all the countries in the south-eastern Mediterranean, in order to resolve all the issues that will arise in total, involving all the parties involved. There Turkey will not be able to make this crazy, Minister, because it will not have a country that will be slandering it. She'll have five countries to say to her: "But what do you say? This shall not apply under international provisions.’ It will have five countries which will have common interests with us at any time and where they will have common interests. So I say that if Turkey ultimately refuses to sit on such a table with all the countries in the region, then that will mean for us a great diplomatic and communication victory at international level. I will only finish with one sentence. I heard the Prime Minister yesterday in an interview with Mr. Nikos Hatzinikolaou. You heard him, too. In a straight question from Mr. Nikos Hatzinikolaou - he dares to ask such questions - whether there are political persons involved in the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, the Prime Minister responded with boldness - and I was amazed by the madness, but also his colony - without even considering it: 'Noone. There is no one." Since at the moment, according to Greek justice, as far as Mr Avramopoulos, Mr Georgiadis and Mr Loverdos are concerned, I do not imply that people are guilty, that they are in the hands of justice, that they are in the hands of the judiciary, that their cases have not been closed by the prosecution authorities, that is, it is clearer for me, Mr President, that there has been a clear, clear-cut intervention here - of another authority - of the Prime Minister in particular - in the work of justice and that a government that is acting in this way in justice will stop saying what the previous governments have done in the field of justice. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u248	We continue with Mr Vassiliou Vassiliou from New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, several of you have already spoken yesterday about the history of the moment. Indeed, our country is growing with the vote on the draft law under discussion and it is good that this will be done by the vote of the overwhelming majority in this House. It's an hour of responsibility for everyone. For the first time since 1947, the Greek territory has been growing, expanding its sovereignty in the air, sea, seabed and subsoil of the Ionian Sea. Hayalitis zone to the west of the country grows from six to twelve nautical miles. It is also good that this action is taking place on the basis of the principle of reciprocity of international law, as both our Italy and our neighbouring Albania have areas of a similar scale. In addition, at least in the Ionian region, the quarantine zone with the national airspace is now identified, thus partially eliminating the global Greek unique paradox for the country to have six nautical miles of territorial waters and ten nautical miles of airspace. But, Mr President, I would also like to make a reference to the very important development that has been ahead of us. It is no other than the version of d.d.107/2020, with which Greece closes the bays and sets straight base lines. For a country like Greece, which has over thirteen thousand kilometres of coastline length, the development of base lines increases the benefits of expansion of territorial waters. Of course, these benefits will be multiplied by the corresponding application in the Aegean Sea. Let us not be fooled, ladies and gentlemen, today by taking part in this historic decision, which concerns our western borders as a result of a new Greek strategy towards our eastern neighbour. And I explain: Greece has never been abducted or lost its right to extend the seabed or to declare any other zone of national jurisdiction throughout its territory. What has happened for many years is that our only dispute with Turkey was over the continental shelf limits. This status quo has chosen to disrupt the Turkish government recently by signing the flagrantly irrational Turkish pact and then its provocative actions last summer. This time the Greek answer was methodical, coordinated and resounding. While Turkey is trying unilaterally and clumsyly to create a fait accompli in the south-eastern Mediterranean, what it eventually succeeds is to trigger a bar of Greece's diplomatic contacts with the other states, which produce tangible and legally results. I am of course referring to the agreements delimiting an exclusive economic zone with Italy and Egypt, but also to the agreement with Albania on the joint recourse to the International Court of The Hague. Let us not forget, of course, the supply of Rafale, which we voted on just a few days ago. Today we are voting for another sound answer of this kind. The message sent to the other side is that "each of your unilateral actions will simply create a more unfavourable situation for you". And it seems that the message has already been received from our neighbours, as Turkey is drawing to the exploratory contacts that will begin in Istanbul on 25 January. That's the truth. Turkey returns to the negotiating table from which it left in 2016 facing a new reality clearly less favourable to it. For the first time, Greece may be rapidly reflexing against Turkish aggression. The European Union also remains to react. Indeed, the European attitude could be much harder. The good news, however, is that, gradually, European states first in France are now aware of the real threat that Turkey can pose to security and stability in our European neighbourhood. So, having International Law on our side, our Armed Forces in Respect, which each day demonstrates our officials and international and European diplomacy on our side, we can claim for Greece the exercise of all its rights and the definitive solution of our dispute in a peaceful manner. Such an important exercise, therefore, is the extension of the gynaecitis zone to the Ionian Sea that we are voting on today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u250	The floor now Mr Arvanitides from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u251	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we all understand that 2021 will in every sense be a very crucial year for the development of our country's foreign policy. The two hundred years anniversary of the national regeneration will have to find us at a national vigilance not only on the front of the Greek-Turkish but also on the front of the Cyprus-Cyprian. In order to address these issues, we need a single national strategy. A national single strategy that will ensure the sovereignty and sovereign rights of Greece in the Ionian, Aegean and the entire south-east Mediterranean. And when I talk about safeguarding our sovereignty and our sovereign rights, I am talking about all maritime zones, the kayalitis zone, the continental shelf, and also about all kinds of technical and economic benefits, now or in the future, that may arise for Greece. These concern not only the rights of mining but also the rights to conduct submarine cables and pipelines, the rights to exploit renewable energy sources from floating wind parks, the rights to extend the protection of marine parks and NATURA areas, the rights to fish. But it also needs clear messages without bilingualism and margin of misinterpretation on the part of Turkey or our allies about what the red Greek lines are. I stress this because the part-session agreement with Egypt on the EEZ and the partial extension of our territorial waters to twelve miles only in the Ionian Sea to the Tinaro should not be seen as signals of partial exercise of rights or divisional sovereignty under the threat of illegal Turkish casus belli. Greece decides, ladies and gentlemen, to exercise the rights conferred on it by the law of the sea and the Montego Bay Convention for the extension of its territorial waters to twelve miles because it now considers it to be national benefits. This must be the clear message to all sides without any further horrors. With this in mind, our prolongation voted in favour of the extension of the yacht zone from six to twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea to Cape Tinaro in the Peloponnese. We consider this important move to be the first step of a more comprehensive course for the full exercise of this right everywhere on Greek territory. In Crete, Kythera and Antikythera, the Aegean Sea and the south-eastern Mediterranean, without inhibiting international shipping. In relation to the next steps, I would also like to make a stand on the provision of Article 4, which concerns our country's decision to allow fishing vessels from countries in the European Union to fish within our territorial waters that now become twelve nautical miles and which is to be specified within our own law by means of decisions of the Minister for Rural Development. I understand the need to compromise with Italy, but in order both to ensure that the rights of Greek fishermen are guaranteed, and not to open housers for rights of other neighbouring countries, we should be very careful then by making specific terms, conditions and rules, which will be respected by all European fishing fleets and which cannot ask, tomorrow or the day after, for Turkey to do the same. So I come to the upcoming start of the sixty-first round of exploratory talks between Greece and Turkey on the results of which we should probably keep a small basket. Ladies and gentlemen, it is crucial for us to constantly point out that this round also concerns the demarcation of the continental continental shelf and the EEZ in the south-eastern Mediterranean on the basis of, of course, the International Law and the Law of the Sea. But we must always bear in mind that Turkey also invokes international law for all its actions or at least seeks all its actions to have a legitimate coverage and exploits loopholes or political loopholes which appear either in our country or internationally. That is what she did with her intervention in Cyprus. That's what he did with the conversion of Saint Wisdom into a mosque. That is what he did with the signature of the Deputy Turkle-Turkish Memorial. This will do it again in any opportunity given to her to appear as the good and honest player. Therefore, apart from invoking international law and the fact that we exercise our rights resulting from it, we should avoid self-determination in endless discussions with Turkey. Particular attention is needed, in the possible shipwreck scenario of the new talks, for who will take responsibility for the deadlock. Turkey does not want to commit itself to the agenda that we put forward and continue every day its challenges and threats at every level. On the other hand, the European Union has clearly shown that it is unfortunately not prepared to impose serious sanctions on Turkey. So the ball comes to us about how we react, how we come to the talks, and how we will block any dissipation of talks in a bilateral negotiation on all matter. I would like to point out that we do not begin the dialogue with the best and say that the government has accepted the conditions for withdrawal of the research vessels and the challenges so that the talks can begin. Already yesterday, the former Foreign Minister, Mrs Bakoyannis, had to point out, Mr. Minister, Mr. Dendia, the unacceptable discourse of the German Minister for Foreign Affairs at a meeting with Mr. Tsavosoglou when he blackmailed: "If Greece does what it wants, we will not only have an accident, but Ankara will do what it needs." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm going to need a minimum of time. The Turks have already started the game of muskouri, launching threats and the European partners will simply say: 'Find them'. Mrs Bakoyannis, in fact, very diplomatically thought that the German Foreign Minister might have been lost in translation, which is why she did not react. Pleasant Greek diplomatic desires, I would say. However, the main point, ladies and gentlemen, is that Greece should not be lost in translation and that we should read and properly analyse the data of the current situation. And the data of this juncture say that maximum attention is needed. We are not enclosed in wooden wordings on international law. We're setting red lines to everyone. We're forming support alliances. We're talking, but we're not blackmailing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u252	Thank you. Mr. Nikolaos Pappas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary majority, the guarantors of the Ambassadors' Agreement, we welcome you in the defence of national interests. We welcome you to the strategy and policy that SYRIZA's governance has drawn up over the years 2015-2019. It is now deafening and your confession that in the years of the opposition you have put above all your own party interest and not the national interest. It turns out that you were neither honest nor, of course, did you have a strategy. And that's painful for the country, because it turns out that for right-wing foreign policy, the major national issues, they are rather a part of propaganda, what we would call'marketing strategy','strategic trade', for an opposition party in its attempt to gain influence. We have come to an end with the arguments that this is an accession - for my part - to Turkey's arguments and that it is a great deal of damage to national interests. He does not care for a party, such as the New Democracy, with its size and the role he claims to play, to have a Chief, who says: 'I did not say so. Kumoutsakos said so." That's not serious. And it's a very bad deposit for how Mr. Mitsotakis himself works. Because tomorrow, tomorrow, he may go up to this Step, have negative developments in other fields and tell us: “I didn’t do it. Chiodras told me." I think we're in agreement. Be careful, think about it and ask Mr Mitsotakis for an explanation, what exactly does that mean, and if we as opposition parties have to pay attention to what his ministers say or if tomorrow, tomorrow, he will come out again to say: "The Minister said so. I did not say it myself." So it is not a nationalist agreement. It is part of a multidimensional foreign policy. Our governance has brought Greek foreign policy out of the dawn. There are opinions in this House, which have a start, in the middle, but, in my opinion, they have no end. For, of course, for every country in the region one can find and criticize the way in which the government of each neighbouring country is politicizing. He cannot choose a elected Greek government who governs a country next door. On the basis of the canvass of the existing governments, then, you need to draw up a strategy. Where are these strategies judged? They are judged to contribute to maintaining peace in the region and stability. Our policy has also contributed. I heard there should be an alliance with the Mediterranean countries. When was it, beyond our own governance, that alliance with the Mediterranean countries more powerful and deeper? In fact, it was on the basis of international law. Turkey knew that if it wanted to be part of a solution, it would be part of a solution that would have international law on canvass rather than the turquoise pacts. That is where they all measured their potential and Turkey, which is a revision force and, of course, the major powers. No one's got any delusionals. The great powers always come to defend their own interests. The question is, who canvas diplomatic, operational are coming to defend them and who they think they should talk to first. And Greece was a pioneering force in developments in the region during our governance. That is the historical record, no matter how we do it. In any case, with our own policy, we have never reached a hot episode with Turkey. We once had a disturbance, which was much smaller than what we lived a few months ago. A general conclusion must be drawn from the Greek people: they must not listen to the Right on foreign policy issues when it is in opposition. As you have dealt with the issue we are discussing today, you have also dealt with the question of relations with northern Macedonia. That's where we lived extremes really. The problem for Greece, the problem for our national interests is that you do not have the ideological and political displacement of this policy to serve it consistently, to be active in the Balkans, to take initiatives, to come forward, as we have done. Not all countries in Europe are common interests with Greece in relation to the Balkans. They would like other countries to be leading ones. This was not achieved during our governance. Here, however, there have been flaws, which have left no policy. I think that you should evaluate and move accordingly. And by the way, I would like to invite you to activate the Friendship Group between the Greek and Northern Macedonia Parliaments. Be careful, we are living in a paradox: in this committee of friendship, the members of the SYRIZA are a majority. Because Members do not dare to participate in the government's majority. Mr. Teddy, and you can do it. There will also be intervention in the Bureau in order to do so. Diplomacy can offer a lot of this type. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would just like to say one word, Mr President, on the issue of mobilisation and the 'extended' movement. The 'indignant' movement will haunt you, not only because it was a genuine, popular outburst, but because it was found to be a pretext for a great democratic change. Because you have recalled selectively some images from the indignant movement, which is strategically important for New Democracy to slander it. But I would also like to remind you of the image of SYRIZA Members coming down from the House and join the crowd, sending exactly the message that social protest and political protest can and should have called for democratic change and not jeopardise democracy. And when democracy was compromised, the left wrestlers were pioneers there to keep this popular outburst from getting any more shameful. And this is a great historical deposit. You're afraid. And tell you why you're scared? Because now you've been screwing with the youth, and the mixture will be explosive. The economic hardship along with the blind front you open to the student youth and working youth will be the beginning of the end of your own governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Mr Panagis Kappatos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen: 'In the wider geographical area that we belong to, there is uncertainty, opportunities and risks. The role that Greece will have to claim is that of the equal European partner that is taking the lead in this area." These words belong to Constantine Mitsotakis in 1990. We can now speak of an historic choice that confirms its words. This draft law is historic and decisive for the future of the country. It is historical not only because it geographically increases the country, but also because it highlights Greece as a regional player of stability, security and development, because it confirms the shift of Greek foreign policy towards its active involvement in the Eastern Mediterranean. This is what both the agreements with Italy and Egypt and our sincere contacts with Albania show. The history of our choice, as well as of the responsibilities of the dynamic presence of Greek diplomacy in our geographical region, Europe and the world, is obvious. It is also a common place that the country's inextricably committed to both the principle of international understanding and its active involvement in the processes and culture of international society. But what is at the heart of our concern is the provocativeness that the Turkish side demonstrates, from the violation of any concept of international law which the illegal Turkish memorandum brings, from the multi-faceted, finally, threats arising from the unstable environment that we have just described. As far as the contacts between Greece and Turkey are concerned, we have to clarify that we are not talking about anything but about an informal process of recording positions and oppositions without any commitments. With the agenda of the contacts, it is important for the political forces to unite in what and how Greece seeks to do. With Greece expanding the yayalitis zone to twelve nautical miles in the maritime area of the Ionian Sea and the Ionian Islands, this is, as the Minister pointed out, the first enlargement of our national area since 1947. At the same time it is about establishing the Convention on the Law of the Sea by applying the inalienable right of the State to extend its territorial waters up to twelve nautical miles. For any change in the limits of territory, the Constitution requires that the law be passed by an absolute majority of all Members. This provision is also the guarantee that we can preserve our country's status as a guarantor of stability in a region, but also in a period of instability. We are following the criticism of the Officerial Responsibility for the reservations we expressed when the expansion of the gyalitis zone in the Ionian Sea had been announced, without it, of course. And it has not come to an end because, first of all, it has been announced by the outgoing Minister, Mr Kotzia. Secondly, there has never been a relevant text in the House. And thirdly, there has never been an environment of preparedness and parliamentary cohesion on the part of the government at the time. In order for the country and government to be ready to meet this demanding framework, a number of conditions become necessary long before any decision and action is taken. The preparation as a prerequisite for any move we make in conjunction with the historical and time-frame within which a decision is taken must be taken seriously and organized. Increasing Turkish reform, but also illegal Turkish commemoration, form a geopolitical fiscal reality. But the same goes for an active foreign policy. The excellent work of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the readiness of our diplomatic staff and of course the reflexes of the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have strengthened the country's position with two legal agreements with Italy and Egypt. It is also clear that today's debate and vote on the draft law is precisely the result of this mobilisation of our foreign policy. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude my thoughts with a report which we have heard several times during our debate. By defining the gyalitis zone in the Ionian region from six to twelve nautical miles, Greece has been extending its limits for the first time since 1947. It is true, but incomplete. This is because in May 1864 there is another historic event, the first territorial expansion of the Greek area with the association of the Greeks. It is a fact that contributes catalyticly to the country's progress towards national integration and to the hammering of Greek society with new radical ideas. The operation of the association of the Ionian Islands with Greece was the first expansion of the free Greek state. Allow me to invoke the history of the time which said that in the then Ionian State Parliament the Members standing up, applauding long, voted unanimously to unite the Ionian Islands with the mother Greece. Enlargement of the Greek territory today finds the area of the Istanbuls again protagonist. The expansion of the kayalitis zone to the twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea, together with the announcement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the planning in the region of Crete, is proof that united with design and love for the country can be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u256	Thank you. Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, within a few days the Greek Parliament is voting for another important bill. Following the significant strengthening of the Armed Forces with the modern-day Rafale fighter aircraft, this draft law that extends its sovereignty from Ionian to Cape Tainaro. Greece is even growing in a peaceful manner on the basis of International Law and the Law of the Sea. These historic decisions, taken at the beginning of a flagship year, fall within the framework of a more general strategy, which the Government of New Democracy has consistently implemented: active diplomacy, commitment to international law for peaceful dispute resolution, recourse to international organizations, the conclusion of strong alliances at international level, and the strengthening of the Armed Forces. This policy requires consistency, continuity and common national line. Ladies and gentlemen, at this critical national juncture, and as history has taught us, unity and responsibility are required. Discord, micropolitics and populism have been paid dearly for our country and the Greek people. What one would consider to be self-evident in the face of the external danger is not so much. This is not only irresponsible in national matters, but it can also be dangerous. The unity required by the juncture must be substantial and not seeming, that is to say, in words alone, with a positive vote, but with a bisecting speech. And I'll explain what I mean. We heard the Civic Opposition to criticise the government, saying that we joined SYRIZA's policy and that we were supposed to have been against the political expansion of the Greek kayalitis zone in the past. First of all, on these issues and at this stage you should not be talking about SYRIZA and New Democracy policy, but about a single and ongoing national policy. So, if we were to continue your policy, you should have congratulated and not criticised. But is that so? Did you have a structured policy on the question of extending maritime zones? For the first time we heard the former Foreign Minister Nicos Kotzia talking about the intention and preparation of the partial expansion of maritime zones in Ionian on October 20, 2018 at the time of the delivery of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the then Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. And the questions raised are relentless, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate. Do you consider such an appropriate way and time to make such an important plan and strategy public? At the time when the Minister of Foreign Affairs then resigns he makes such a statement, saying he has the presidential decrees ready in a secret procedure? Shortly after that, Prime Minister Tsipras, as he admitted today, said that this cannot be done by presidential decrees, but only by law. Such national sovereign decisions, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Officers, cannot act as a communal counterweight nor can they be announced during government changes. And what can be the reason why a Foreign Minister, who is preparing such an important national project, has also been credited to the great "success" of the Prespecies Agreement? It appears that either the presence of your co-pilot Panos Kammenos was so strong or there was a serious reason for disagreement between you two, but this is another debate. So, since that was your strategy and plan, what happened next? How did the succeeding Minister of Foreign Affairs, Alexis Tsipras, and then the next Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Katrugalos, serve this strategy? What was the gradual expansion made by the SYRIZA government in relation to the gynaecitis zone? Didn't you once again see Mr. Tsipras or Mr. Katrugalos, as Mrs. Gerovasili had said, or did you not think it was the right time? Or didn't you want to provoke, as Mr. Triantafylides said, and did Mr. Kotzias write in his book? All of this has not been explained to us so far. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that everyone is aware that foreign policy data and conditions are changing and policies which have not in the past been correct or necessary or which are not urgent in the future can be the opposite. We can all realise that the illegal Turkish memorandum changes our data, our priorities and adapts the national strategy. That is the truth that we all have to admit. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help talking about the attitude of the Communist Party, which is voting 'at present' in the extension of Greek sovereignty and does not say 'yes' clearly. All political forces are judged. No party and no politician is above criticism here in this Parliament, especially, above all the Greek people, and you will be judged, as will the history of the future for you. Ladies and gentlemen, our country with this draft law has increased its territory for the first time since 1947. Article 1(2) provides that the Hellenic Republic shall reserve for the exercise in the other areas of its respective rights, as resulting from the United Nations Convention of 10 December 1982 on the Law of the Sea, which reflects international customary law. And as the Prime Minister has said, and the Foreign Minister here yesterday in Parliament is already preparing the country to do the same for Crete. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] The Government of New Democracy takes historic decisions to defend the country's interests, in response to Turkish provocation and Turkish reform. So let us all send together a clear message together today without mercifulness, a message of peace, but also a message of power and determination. Let us truly unite all our forces in this cause. So I invite you all together with a sense of responsibility, but also proudly to vote for this draft law on the extension of the Greek territory from Ionian to Cape Tinaro from six to twelve nautical miles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, too. And I would like to call on the Stepma after he has been prepared sanitaryly, the MP of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr. Alexander - Christo Aylonite.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u259	Is he the last speaker, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u260	As the last speaker, but according to yesterday's data, Mr Loverdos, there are three more rapporteurs to speak: Mr Mylonakis, Mr Katrougalos and Mr Hatzidis, and the Minister will obviously be closed. Here, Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. The debate began with a Corfu Minister and ends at least on the list of Corfu MPs. Welcome to you, Minister, dear Mr. Dendia, dear Mr. Nicos, colleague at the bars and abbreviations, to bring this bill to the House, the bill extending our yacht zone by six more nautical miles. That's why I'm glad and I'm sure you think I'm happy that this role was coming to you and to a Corfu citizen. I have followed you in committee, but I have noted many times that you see national unity in Parliament. That's right. But I do not think your party as a whole has the same view. In my opinion, there are two parties in the New Democracy party, to say it more politely, two sections, two political ones. There is one section, which says that we are sort of national brokers - you do not want to say so fat - and the other part, which even thinks we contribute to national unity. That is what you belong to, I would say above all. But what exactly are we for New Democracy should be cleared up at some point. Are we what we call a reduced national conscience or are we Greeks, who we love our country and who we prove it today, we proved it in any capacity yesterday? Your Chief, however, doesn't think he's taking such a stand, so he can surely give us the proper identity we expect of him. But what I have to stress in this way in a reversal of my position is that the word 'progressive' agreement on the Prespecies Agreement has often been heard in the previous period. And I will say something that may not have been heard, because I hear the Prime Minister saying that an agreement that was voted on in this House cannot, with such a prestige and even transnationality, cancel it. If you really thought it was a treachery agreement, no international customary law, no national or fundamental law would prevent you from canceling it. I'm just trying to demonstrate the fascist of the whole case and the national issues you put into the precursor party logic. Dear Minister, SYRIZA will vote for the bill, considers it a national task. However, I would like to remind you once again that, when he put the intention to vote, too much was heard. I wasn't a MP at the time. There's been a lot of noise. Alexis said it this morning, one by one. And every conversation, a congressman, like my own conversation, can hurt my party. Today, however, the Prime Minister said: 'No, of course, others said it, not me'. It would be unfair on this point - and I will end here - not to mention that this extension of the twelve nautical miles to the Ionian Sea had to be part of a comprehensive strategic plan. The logical thing - you do not hear it for the first time, I say it to the Greek people, who have the honour to listen to me - would be to precede the closure of the tricks, to draw up the straight lines to follow, to extend the territorial water and then to negotiate for EEZ and continental shelf. That's how it had to be, it went backwards. Let's take it the way it's done. It's good. But it is nationally right, democratically correct, that it should have been heard today by mouth and by Prime Minister Teddy and Prime Minister a good word about what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done by 2018, but also later on. Two whole years of cartographers and foreigners and Greeks were involved in determining the limits, especially in the bays. I say this because Mr Nicholas said earlier that we did not have time. The two years that were given for the technical work? We'll throw them out of the way. I therefore believe that a large 'thank you' is necessary. I also think it is right to pursue an active policy by breaking the logic of inaction that harms our country. I shall refer to this point, Mr Tindemans, from now on. In the last few days fishermen in the wider Ionian region, but especially in Corfu, have been curious about Article 4. According to Article 27 of the Constitution... [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Allow me, Mr President, if you please. Besides, I'm the last speaker. Article 27 therefore gives particular attention to the adoption of a bill concerning the extension of the territory. It wants an absolute majority, the formality it needs, which we have kept to an absolute extent. How, bro, did paragraph 4 come into such a bill that it talks about fishermen? In other words, it says that the Minister for Rural Development can authorize Italian fishermen to this sea lane, in which we extend our territorial waters. Steady? In my personal opinion, this story does not go far enough in legal terms. What was agreed between Greece and Italy when the Exclusive Economic Zone was established? Isn't that a question? Shouldn't you tell the National Representation? Why do you put Article 4 on it that doesn't get stuck with anything? Believe me, I also speak as a legal officer, and I think that this issue, which gives Italian fishermen the opportunity to enter this sea lane of our national sovereignty, should be done in a mutual way, based on the principle of reciprocity. Let's go, let's go, say, on the sea lane of Italy? Does it look through the law? This is an issue that needs to be answered, not only to fishermen, to all of us. I'm going on and ending this. Western well done, Minister. But to the east for weeks - I'll say it myself - Orutch Race was going around. Has the Greek people forgotten when you went out and said through the Government Representative that Orutch Race entered our waters because they were blowing the winds of the Aegean? Did they forget, did we forget about that? Did you forget that you said you weren't doing an investigation, because the noise of the ships involved prevents Orutch Race's machinery from doing research? Forget it? Forget it was six miles from Kastelorizo and Rhodes? This is all not forgotten. There was a cowardice in dealing with this real situation. After you have taken the view that, for the investigative contacts, we too agree, this preparatory procedure begins - that is exactly what you called it - dialogue. You should definitely explain to us what the framework is with which this debate will begin, because we have negative conditions. What are the sanctions against Turkey that the Prime Minister would surely ensure at the European Council? What is the framework for guarantees that Turkey will not return to aggression? Who has not listened to the threatening positions of the Turkish Foreign Minister and the silence, the mungamara, as Yiannis Ragus, the German Foreign Minister, quite rightly said? All this shows that the framework is not such that, I repeat, we want a preparatory process for the launch of a substantial dialogue. In our view, it will be advisable to accept the enlargement of the agenda, as the Turkish side calls for, on matters of sovereignty, such as gray zones and the demilitarisation of islands. It will be a great deal more than that, but it will also be an inefficient attitude to go there only to hear what Turkey will say or worse that we are taking advantage of the shipwreck of the debates. We, as a patriot, will support a national strategy, since it exists, which will obviously have to be formed by a board of political leaders, not by guardians, not by protectors, as our rapporteur, Mr Katrugalos, said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr. Alonite. The reason is now the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Mylonakis, for his denology, for ten minutes as we agreed yesterday. I stress it because I would like to ask you to keep it. Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u263	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in plenary we shall be completing the bill you tabled on the extension of the kayalitis zone, our territorial waters, from the Ionian Sea to Cape Tainaro, from Ionian to the Ionian Islands. I have decided to speak from the last two, along with two others, to the rapporteur of the Officerial Representation and to Mr Hatzidisvalio de New Democracy, because I wanted to hear almost all the Members, to see how they will be placed. You know, Minister, there have been some things that are incredible here. You are the guarantors of the Prespecies Agreement, SYRIZA's MEP, the former Minister, Mr. Pappas. That is, borrowers and guarantors have made an agreement, obviously, to respect and honor the Ambassadors' agreement. Because since 1995, as I have said in my protology, we could have exercised our unprecedented right to expand the gyalulitis zone across the whole territory without further discussion. Mr Pafilis, the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party, gave his opinion when he asked the rhetorical question, why now? So here's the Greek solution we told you about. The President, Kyriakos Velopoulos, also said, but it is good that, Minister, the Greek people understand in simple terms. Because the average Greek citizen cannot sit to philosoph or tallen himself. So why not in 1995 to date, that is, for twenty-five years? Why now the delimitation of the Exclusive Economic Lives with Italy and Egypt? Why now the partial influence of the islands? Mr. Kegeroglou, Mr. Loverdos, from the point of view of the Change Movement, said that the Movement does not accept a change in partial influence of the islands, less than 100%. That's what he said before. The Change Movement, however, voted for the agreement with Italy, despite the fact that both the French and the Sophists had 75% and 32% respectively of their influence. So since you have quickly settled the agreement with Italy, which has had to be settled since 1977, after you have been settled and then partly influenced by the islands - I stress it - you have gone and settled them quickly - quickly the agreement with Egypt, once again leaving the entire complex of Kastelorizo - Max, that is, from the 28th meridian and easter, again with partial influence of the islands and zeros, you now come to settle the kayalitis zone in part until Cape Tinaro, poorly said the Greek Solution from the first day we discussed it in committee. Why did that happen? Because you knew very well, Minister, as all the Greek people know, and it will turn out to be because the "hot potato" fell in your hands that it was pre-designed and pre-agreed that we are going to start on January 25th, the exploratory contacts with Turkey. And yes, you're tearing your clothes and saying that only for the FOZ and the continental shelf will we talk, but the Prime Minister is talking about sea zones and coming and the maritime zone joins the sea zone, along with the AEZ and the continental shelf. So you knew very well that at some point very quickly - and the time came - the investigative contacts would begin. Turkey has started the pressure too. The allies in general and, above all, Germany imposed exploratory contacts and you are now coming to make exploratory contacts from Monday. And as our President said, Turkey will be filled with requests and ours will be empty. But for the history of the future, and it is good for the investigative journalists to look into it, he testified in the Minutes of the House during his summer speech by Kyriakos Velopoulos seventeen points which, Minister, would be very much inclined to see, embraced and placed in exploratory contacts. Anyway, give it to your own Mr. Apostolidis who has been very much experienced since 2007. Let us not forget that he was before in the governments of Papandreou. Let's not forget he was also a commander in the NSA. Let us not forget that he himself was the man who often spoke - densely in the investigative contacts with Turkey. So that's the reasoning. That's the truth people need to know. Everything else is Halima's fairy tales. Mr Koumoutsakos said that: "I had never said in 2018 when SYRIZA started to build and prepare, prepare the ground - and very well he did, that is, no one doubts this - for the expansion of the zone." It is another problem, as SYRIZA President Alexis Tsipras said, that it would not have been by a presidential decree and should have been done by law in Parliament on the basis of Article 27 of the Constitution and the tales of Chalima. And there was a law, Mr. Catrugale, since I have you here in front of me and everything you could do. The horrific syndrome you had. You were afraid to do it. That's the truth. Because the New Democracy had then lifted the bakery of the Macedonians. But Prime Minister Mitsotakis, Minister, was absolutely right, was not a Macedonian. Mr Tsipras accused him of saying: "But, Prime Minister, did you throw it all over today's ministers and then Members of your party, what they said against SYRIZA about Hayalitis?" He was right. Mr. Mitsotakis was never a Macedonian man. I remember and recall when the New Democracy MPs - not all of them, of course, but most of them - had lifted up the hoop skirt and made the Macedonians dressed Paul Melas and went out to the rally, Mr Mitsotakis on the day of the rally in the Constitution, skied. He wasn't a mobster. He didn't yell for Macedonia that it's one Greek. He didn't say the Prespecies Agreement was treacherous. Everything. I say it so that the Greek people can understand it. He keeps his promise. And now you're here supposed to fight with SYRIZA to see you, the Greek people to say what? That you do not respect the Prespecies Agreement, Mr. Hatzidis? You are not the one who along with other Serres and Mr. Kostas Karamanlis the youngest, the current Minister of State, went to Thessaloniki at the rally and said: "Macedonia is one and it is Greek. Are the traitors who make the Embassy Agreement? And now you're the guarantors, as Mr. Pappas says, and he's right to say. You are now being sloppy because you have fooled the Greek people. You flattered him as you told him today. The Greek Solution, ladies and gentlemen, has promised this in society, in the world, to those who have put us in the House and to those who have doubled our rate, and I believe that at some point they will give us the opportunity, even for four years, to govern this country, because you see that our complaints in what the government is doing are serious and our proposals are just as effective, so you are implementing them, Mr Hadjivaliou, on many issues. That is why we would vote for the agreement, even a square meter, if our homeland were to grow. We all agree, all parties except the JRC which votes 'the present'. All other parties agree on extending the zone. But, Minister, because I saw some difference of views between them, which you said yesterday about the immediate expansion of the yacht zone in Crete, north, south, east, west, - you said yesterday that it would also be to the east - with what the Prime Minister said today in his speech that when and when the time comes, we will do so. You said immediately, the Prime Minister said when the time comes. Phase two is done. So we're waiting for phase three. You have told us that the second phase includes Crete, which will be done immediately. So directly, the Greek Solution invites you to do so. And I want you to follow, very seriously, our proposal to extend our territorial waters throughout the country. Stop mocking the Greek people that Orutch Race was just walking around. He did research six miles outside Rhodes and Kastelorizo. Mr. Gerapetite said and insisted that six miles is our red line. It's not six miles, Minister, and you know it better than anyone, because you're an honest man. It is the twelve miles and we call on the Greek Government immediately to extend the twelve miles without appalling contribution to the whole territory. In the exploratory contacts with Turkey no one says no. But without a specific agenda, without requests from our own as tabled by the President of the Greek Solution, Kyriakos Velopoulos at the seventeen points today in the Minutes of Parliament, do not go. If you go like this, you'll have to leave very quickly. Then your ally, Germany, who Mr. Maas "walked" his mouth and "walked" his ears next to Tsavosoglou when he blackmailed and threatened Greece the other day, will come to blame, like other countries, for allied allies, such as Spain with the helicopter helicopter that is preparing for Turkey, and say that Greece is again responsible for this issue. The Greek Solution, in conclusion, supports and will vote for the bill of extension, with the exception of Article 4. We said that yesterday, and the President said so today. It's not about making fishing zones. But this also goes through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs until 31 March. However, once the fishing vessels of the Italians and other European Union countries enter the Greek waters, from six to twelve miles, the Greek fishing vessel must also have the opportunity to do the same in the waters concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u264	The SYRIZA rapporteur - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Katrugalos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, may I have the floor for a request?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u266	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u267	I would like to make a request, because something can be said that will need an answer, and I would like to inform you that I have a telephone appointment with the Irish Minister for Foreign Affairs and it is important. I hadn't predicted it would last so long...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u268	Mr. Katrugale, you have the floor for ten minutes and I would ask you to stay within the time, because Mr. Mylonakis violated him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u269	I will try to be consistent, in view of the national obligation that the Minister has.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u270	Unfortunately, the Minister didn't inform me. Otherwise, I would also be different to that of the years. You have the floor, Mr. Catrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. It is obviously a very positive fact that almost all the wings of the Chamber accepted as a national position the strategic choice of the SYRIZA Government to diversify from the climate of inertial decades and to promote the partial expansion of the territorial waters initially in the Ionian Sea, then in Crete, then throughout the territory. Unfortunately, this positive fact is shattered by the fact that the government's double gap of sincerity and strategy has been confirmed. As far as the truth is concerned, the self-evident obligation of each party is to say the same when it is in the government and when it is in the opposition. Here, unfortunately, to reject the accusation that he was inexperienced when his party condemned and followed this strategic choice as opposed to the country's national interests, he preferred to accept for himself the much worse status of a hypocrite. What did he say? "These statements were made by the relevant ministers, they were made by the officials of the New Democracy, but not by me." What does this say to us about a leader who does not take responsibility for his party's policy and who, as he has 'empted' the officials, tomorrow, will obviously 'empty' his ministers? I shall return to this and to the end of my speech and when I speak of the empty strategy. Obviously, once again it proved that there was no sign of or individuality. Imperfection was in the case of the Macedonian. But, unfortunately, for the Prime Minister, it is the reality that reveals the dishonesty and hypocrisy and historical truth. As I said in committee, I applaud the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who was right, addressing his counterpart in Northern Macedonia, to remind him that thanks to the Prespecies Agreement it is not possible for one of the compatriots of Mr Osmani to claim that he was present next to Alexander the Great at the battle of Granical, Issus or Gaymilians. This, obviously, disproves Mr Mitsotakis and his position in Parliament on 25 January when he said it was a national mistake, which insults our history, the Prespecies Agreement. The real facts that I had claimed in relation to the initiative, which we undertook to promote, by means of legislation, in the light of Article 27, the partial expansion of territorial waters, starting with the Ionian Sea, have been confirmed. Mr Kumucakos himself mentioned and admitted that two national foreign policy councils had announced the government's intention to table a bill on this subject and, with the honesty he describes, he admitted that he himself had requested that it should not be tabled immediately during the election period of the European elections. He asked the Prime Minister in his dilemma - and that is why our President was unable to answer - because, if that were the case, we did not, at least by way of a President-in-Office, proceed with the closure of the tricks and the straight lines. The answer comes from the draft law, which we had tabled and which, obviously, is in the archives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where we incorporated the law on the extension of territorial waters with the arrangements for closing the tricks and straight lines. In fact, the coordinates are exactly the same as those of this bill. The same preparation for the closure of tricks and straight lines was completed for Crete and mainland Greece. Therefore, it is not accurate to claim that because of the need for technical preparation the extension was delayed there. I now come to the second and largest gap, the empty strategy. You all understood the two words, which the Prime Minister has not mentioned today, which, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs often pointed out, are important in diplomacy and which he dared to draw up yesterday. He said that the expansion of the territorial waters south and east of Crete would follow. The 'East' said it for the first time yesterday. Today, the Prime Minister said that for Crete, as for every other part of the territory, we have the right to extend the territorial waters in a time to be chosen. The different quality of the two declarations is clear. It is not just the lack of openness, which is typical of the Prime Minister for not specifying exactly what his strategy is. Here is evidence of his weakness or hypocrisy, if he is aware of the fact that timing of such decisions is a crucial element of the strategy. The extension of the territorial waters to the south and east of Crete should have taken place, on the one hand, to counter the Turkish aggression, as the previous period manifested, and embedded in space between six and twelve miles. Furthermore, in view of possible future recourse to The Hague, we also have the case-law of the International Court of Justice in The Hague - the most characteristic is the Qatar-Bahrain judgment - which required us to do so. So the government must not continue to use foreign policy in terms of communication and demagogy to say other things when they are in opposition, but when they are in government. It must formulate a national strategy towards Turkey, especially in the light of exploratory contacts. It is not enough for a defensive tactic, which is limited to saying that the agenda will not be extended. It is a welcome statement, of course. He must explain to us what a positive strategy is to pursue an honest agreement. Nor is it called for the best place in a "blame game", which will be followed by a shipwreck of explorers, because we will be returning to the escalation of Turkey's aggression and, indeed, without the necessary framework of sanctions that the Prime Minister has failed to ensure and which will provide some guarantees against this potential. I conclude with one issue, in fact, respect for the historical truth and the obligation to be honest, with what has been heard about the issue of the indignant and parallelity with what has been done in Capitol. I will read you a statement here in Parliament on 30 May 2011. "It is more than indignant. They're desperate. But their movement is peaceful, unmistakable, unmistakable and national. It's not a party block. They hold Greek flags. We must give them hope and perspective.' What former Prime Minister, who made this statement? You think Alexis Tsipras? You're wrong. Antonis Samaras made this statement. And besides what Antonis Samaras said then, the truth is one. No relationship had the old movement of hundreds of thousands of people with the graphic extreme rightmen in Capitol. If there was a similarity to this movement, it was with the corresponding "Occupy Wall Street" in America, the "Occupy Central" in Hong Kong and the "Indignados", people's movements, i.e., who embraced democracy and in the form of direct democracy, without questioning the parliamentary, no relationship with the graphics of the upper square's extreme right or with the graphics of the extreme right as manifested in the marches and rallys for Macedonian. And if you want to respect the historical truth, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you should know that only once Parliament has been seized by extreme right-wing trumpets. And this was on July 3, 1964, by extreme right-wing EKOFites, who left the election gathering of the candidate for the New Democracy Mayor Plyta and occupied Parliament. We - and I close with it - do not want to talk about old injuries like this. We want there to be a national line, but that is, first of all, the government, seeking consent, not the hypocrisy it has shown today, unfortunately, by the Prime Minister. And your first obligation would be to pursue this consensus, starting with a council of political leaders. Until then, you claim for yourself not only the hypocrite but also the irresponsible governor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u272	Mr President, would you excuse me for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u273	Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. In closing this two-day plenary session, I would like to make two comments. The first: Whoever talks about the events 2010, 2011, 2012, the outraged and the sprayed, it is important to ask for my opinion that I was Minister for Labour and the Minister for Health. And when it comes to SYRIZA, let them talk to each other, because their new composition also has people who know the facts well. The second: because they spoke on both sides of Parliament about inertia in the past decades, I was also placed in committee and in plenary in a very, very clear way in favour of this agreement and of this change of course and of the partial agreements. But we cannot be unwilling to talk about previous Foreign Ministers and previous diplomats, Mr President, who supported our country and its old strategy, which we have now overcome, in the most patriotic way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u275	Indeed, you were consistent in one minute. Although Mr. Tasos Hatzidis is not a Laccus, but a Seraeus, I believe that he will complete his position as soon as possible. Here you are, Mr. Hatzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr President. I will not say much because we have exhausted the debate today. I'll just make two little remarks. First of all, the Prime Minister did not show hypocrisy today. He said, self-evidently, that the country fully retains its right to extend the seaside zone anywhere in the maritime area, in whichever region it chooses, as does when it considers it nationally appropriate. Secondly, because many colleagues have spoken of a lack of strategy, I would like to say that I do not agree. Is it a strategic lack of what has been done in the last eighteen months? Does the agreement with Italy, with Egypt, indicate an empty strategy, the fact that the country has partnerships with Israel, with Arab states? So it's not like that. The country has a dynamic foreign policy. The government acts, it does not react to the facts. I will close, saying that this is a really historic day. I am pleased that we are sending a message of unity and consensus, which is very important for the crucial decade that the country has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u277	You've proved you're a lacquer. Minister, you have the floor to close the two-day meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will excuse me for the necessary speed. I'm not going to expand. I think they were said yesterday, but today the Prime Minister was directly placed on the SYRIZA's lasting claim on several lines, on different formalities, etc. People say it once, twice. From there on, there's no point in repeating them. I would just like to reiterate the clear conclusion of the Prime Minister to widen the framework of national unity. I think that is what we need to keep from this two-day meeting and from presenting to the committee, that is, the possibility of parties being in favour of national interest. It was an excellent meeting, and I think I am honoured that, on behalf of the Mitsotakis Government, I have recommended this piece of legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, too, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Definition of the range of gyalitis in the maritime area of Ionian and Ionian Islands to Cape Tinaro in the Peloponnese' is concluded. According to Rule 72(1)(c) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, an electronic roll-call vote will be held in principle on the articles and on the entire bill because of the qualified majority required by Article 27(1) of the Constitution. We are therefore adjourning the sitting for ten minutes (10 minutes) in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u280	The sitting shall be resumed. There will be a roll-call vote on the principle of the first Article, on the second Article, on Article 3, on the fourth article, on the nominee article and on the whole draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We note that the vote includes the principle of the bill, four articles, the hotel article and the whole. Make sure that you have voted on all seven fields, including the vote. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u281	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes - fax colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure and the decision of the Conference of Presidents of Thursday, 24 September 2020, have been sent to the Bureau. These votes will be taken into account in the count, which will be followed and recorded in the Minutes. [[The letters referred to above are lodged in the minutes and are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 300 Members voted. In the light of the foregoing, the Court In other words, 'NAH', 284 Members voted. That is to say, 'OH', no one voted. 'PARON' were voted 16 MPs. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice In other words, 'NAH', 284 Members voted. That is to say, 'OH', no one voted. 'PARON' were voted 16 MPs. Article 1 was therefore accepted by a majority. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice In other words, 'NAH', 284 Members voted. That is to say, 'OH', no one voted. 'PARON' were voted 16 MPs. Article 2 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 3: In other words, 'NAH', 284 Members voted. That is to say, 'OH', no one voted. 'PARON' were voted 16 MPs. Article 3 was therefore accepted by a majority. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice In addition, 180 Members voted in favour. In other words, 119 Members voted against. "PARON" voted 1 Member. Article 4 was therefore accepted by a majority. He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: In other words, 'NAH', 284 Members voted. That is to say, 'OH', no one voted. 'PARON' were voted 16 MPs. Therefore, a majority of the members of the Court of First Instance have been accepted by the Court of First Instance. Total: In other words, 'NAH', 284 Members voted. That is to say, 'OH', no one voted. 'PARON' were voted 16 MPs. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority as a whole. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u283	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Determining the range of gyalitis in the marine region of Ionian and Ionian Islands up to Cape Verde Tinaro in Peloponnese’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u284	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u285	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-20-S1-commons.u286	With the consent of the House at 20.06, the sitting for tomorrow, January 21, 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Structuring the Multilateral Convention for the implementation of measures relating to tax agreements to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits", in accordance with the supplementary agenda distributed.
