ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 28-1-2021 authorisation, the minutes of its O' Sessions of Wednesday 27 January 2012 concerning the vote on the whole draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "The integrated maritime policy in the island area, provisions on compliance with international navigation obligations and the upgrading of L.S. - EL.AKEY. and specific arrangements for digitisation and in general strengthening the competitiveness of the Greek shipping industry in the post-COVID era."]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Friday 29 January 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 332/22-1-2021 by Mr Haralambos, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Haralambos, Vice-President of the Commission, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Control of the Competition Committee on the excessive charging of banks to their services to the citizens". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 327/18-1-2021 of the Member of the Heracleon Parliament of the Change Movement Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'An unjustified suffering and burden for farmers by the Ministry of Finance and ASE who consider themselves wrong as a subsidy, compensation for COVID -19 paid to olive growers, etc., and investment aid for wine growers'. 3. The question by No 349/25-1-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of the Interior, on "Problems from Flood in the Regional Unit of Evros". 4. The Question No 342/25-1-2021 by MP B2' Western Athens Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: “The “sensitive” external water system of EKDAP 100% on the hands of private individuals through PPPs.” B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 338/22-1-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA Deputy East Attica - Progressive Alliance Mr. Christos Spirtzis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Increasing crimes, while the government restricts individual freedoms and democratic rights". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 330/20-1-2021 by Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Let a immediate solution be given to the work of refreshing the Mornos plains." 3. Under No 345/25-1-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA MP Magnesia - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The practice of football coaches from physics graduates (TEFFA)". 4. The Question No 351/25-1-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Uncertainty for the Scaramaga shipyards and the workers". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under No 128/34/6-10-2020, was asked and applied for the submission of documents by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Kingaros Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Annoyance between producers of transparency and unequal treatment of areas in the allocation of rights from the national reserve from 2017 onwards’. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Structuring (a) the Donation Contract between the Greek State, the Joint Benefit Foundation called "John S. Latsis (John S. Latis Public Benefit Foundation)" and the N.D.D. under the name ‘Athens General Hospital ‘C. (b) the donation contract between the Greek State, the 4th YPE. Macedonia and Thrace, the Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki "Theagenio", Ms. Anna Maria Louise Ioannis Latsis and the Hellenic Anticancer Society and other provisions of the Ministry of Health." The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 20 January 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and amendments. In particular, the organisation of the debate is proposed in addition to the rapporteurs, special speakers, the parliamentary representatives as well as the ministers, and three circles of speakers who will participate in the debate in a natural presence. Each cycle will consist of twelve speakers with the following ratio: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the KKE, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. Two speakers will also be added to this debate by teleconferencing via the Webex platform. Each cycle will consist of twelve speakers with the same ratio. As you know, the names of the speakers have already been appointed by Parliamentary Groups in letters on this subject. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed on the procedure. I would like to inform you that the services have made a calculation of, of course, today's sitting and will be about ten to half hours with all these speakers. Then, as you can see, time must be observed and not what happened yesterday when we ended at 12 o'clock at midnight. Because, obviously, we don't understand that here too, we have to be careful. And since Monday, I'm afraid we'll be more careful twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u4	Yes, Mr. Skourlet, here you go. You have the floor for one or two minutes. I don't give time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. I take the floor to make a statement before the House. In a few hours' time, ladies and gentlemen, there is going to be a student rally against the bill that the government intends to table. It is a bill which, in addition to all other reactionary and non-educational arrangements, proposes the establishment of a university police force. On behalf of the Government and ELAS, this rally has been banned. This is blatantly an anti-constitutional practice. I would like to say, with a view to the government and the majority Members of the House, that it is not considered to ban the constitutional right of students and students to protest, on the pretext of pandemic. If anything happens today in Athens, Mr Chrysochoidis and the government will have it. It's absolutely hypocritical that in the name of the pandemic...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u6	And that's what you're closing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u7	That's what I'm closing down with. In the 200 meters from the Propylaea where the rally takes place, thousands of citizens are shopping and are supposed to be protecting against the spread of the coronary. No, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Democracy, be afraid not to get hurt, not a coronary!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u8	But close it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u9	And I'm ending up saying this. We are discussing a draft law by the Ministry of Health, and we are talking about the patent issues at the moment. Yesterday there was a very interesting vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u10	Well, don't go into another matter. In your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u11	I'm not coming in. On this. There was a very interesting vote in the Council of Europe. I think that on behalf of the government her only concern is access to a patent, to the junta patent, as Mr Syragos presented to us, who told us that we should accept the 1969 practice of setting up police departments at universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u12	You're done! You're out of the question. They have nothing to do with the bill what you said. You could've told your speech. I am not going to go back to such decency and give the floor, because I see that it is for reasons of impression. Now all the parliamentary representatives want the floor and the bill we need to discuss will go to second fate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u13	That's our right!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u14	It's a right. I didn't tell you you had no right. I told you that you could tell your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u15	The speech will be after the rally.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u16	I didn't tell you not to tell them! Another one. You could have told all this in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u18	Here, Mr. Plori, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, you should normally have taken the floor away from the Members of Parliament, because many times Members of Parliament and we see it abuse time against colleagues. Let him take tritology, after dealing with a substance and not a procedure. Here, then, we have to tell truths. Mr. Skourlett lied! And what's the lie? There are restrictive measures and restrictions exist in absolute rights. Our fellow citizens, Mr President, must send sms, because in the weighting of public health all other goods are subject to proportionate restrictions with the Constitution. When SYRIZA and the Communist Party of Greece did not agree to comply with the measures that were in place for 17 November, there were parties who went to the Council of State and it was considered that the restrictions are constitutional and the constitutionality will not be judged by Mr Skourletis, the courts will judge it. What Mr. Skourletis doesn't understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u20	No nominal reports, he was a representative of his party, he was placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u21	What SYRIZA has not understood - or does that he does not understand - is that under the current regime the marches, the meetings were up to nine people. Up to nine people! The hundreds said were opening up to the process. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you must finally take responsibility! You are a Dedicated Opposition! Today, from this moment on, you have basically called on the government to make incidents. If we want to have protection from the coronary, get out and say what you think should not open and what to open!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u22	Finish it, Mr. Pleari.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u23	Because what you're doing right now is just...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u24	Do not "close" democracy, Mr. Plearis!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Florie, finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u26	Democracy, Mr. Skourletis, expresses...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, you are addressing the Bureau and through the Bureau to colleagues! Don't hold a dialogue! Hang up now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u28	I'm closing, Mr. President. Here there is no defender a priori of democracy. Democracy is judged by elections, judged by constitutional courts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u29	Aren't there any rights? Protests? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u31	Mr Skourletis, do not say "shuffle"! Shame on you to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Florie, please. Finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, it doesn't let me finish, it only stops, it knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u34	They're not written in the Minutes anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u35	If the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman wants to refer to democracy, go to what the SYRIZA Government set up four years to control justice, control media!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u36	All right, you're done, Mr. Plori!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u37	You have courage to talk about democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u38	You've got a nerve!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u39	All right, did we make our impressions now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u40	It's not a matter of impression, it's a matter of substance!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u41	Now I'm the oldest in here, and I can judge, Mr. Skourlet! I can judge and regret the opening of this debate, in the belief that it would be a decent debate rather than what was even heard outside the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u43	What do you want, Mr. Catarini? You have just entered the Chamber. You have not followed the debate. What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u44	I will surprise you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u45	Here, for a minute, be surprised, I hope not unpleasant.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u46	Continuing from what you said, it is truly a sad sight to see the representatives of SYRIZA and the New Democracy in a battle to the end. It reminds me of a boxing match, which is two boxers on the ring, beating up to a final fall for twenty-four, thirty-six hours, with an obvious aim to eliminate one another and do not see that viewers are either fainted or asleep by what they see. That's what SYRIZA and New Democracy do today. We're probably staying on a third lockdown with the epidemiological data being alarming, we see decisions by the government, which I'll call at least unrooted and instead of the tons falling, to see how we deal with the pandemic on the one hand and its effects on the economy on the other, which we all realize how serious it is, and so not to exacerbate the spirits, to try to be useful, we see this sad spectacle today in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u47	Okay. Mrs Skondra, the rapporteur-general of the New Democracy, Karditsa, has the floor. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a word, dear Parliamentary Representative of the SYRIZA. I think, because very often I hear the word 'junta' to use it lately, you know, if we had a junta, we wouldn't be here today either you or we.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Syrigos said so! Are you telling us? To your colleagues, tell them!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u50	The first thing that would not exist, if there were a junta, would not be the House and plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u51	All right, keep going!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. So I have the honour to recommend to Parliament today the Ministry of Health bill. It is divided into three parts, with the first part being made up of a unique article on sanctions for the two donation agreements of the "Joannis Latsis" and of Anna - Maria - Louisa Ioannis Latsis to the "Genemas" Hospital and the Thessaloniki Anticancer Hospital "Theagenio" respectively. The second part contains the other provisions of the Ministry of Health and is divided into seven chapters. Finally, the third part concerns the repealed provisions and the entry into force of this Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that the drafting of the bill in the Standing Committee on Social Affairs has gone smoothly. We have had the opportunity to listen to all the parties involved and to have a debate on the regulations it introduces. I'm starting my introduction with the donations we do. The donation of the Latsis Foundation to Gennamics amounts to 2m euros. It will be available to restructure, renovate and upgrade the hospital Emergency Department that presents structural weaknesses since it has been operating since 1960 and receives thousands of patients every day. The donation of Ms. Latsis to 2m euros also implements the reconstruction of a part of an existing building of the Hellenic Anticancer Society in Pylea and the supply of suitable equipment. There will be a conversion of the Day Hospital's Monastery of Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki "Theageneio". There is a substantial improvement in the conditions for the accommodation and provision of daily services of about sixty thousand volatile patients per year. The donations were signed on 9 and 11 December 2020 and with their ratification they become law-enforcement. I certainly believe that all Parliament's wings welcome the above initiatives that upgrade and modernise health services to citizens. The Greek state expresses its gratitude for the Joint Benefit Foundation "Joannis Latsis" and Ms. Latsis, who, in their actions, strongly support the health structures of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, in the second part, which is divided into seven chapters and has a total of thirty articles, various important regulations of the Ministry of Health are introduced. In his articles, the intensive effort of the government, as well as the political leadership of the Ministry of Health, is reflected in the continued global pandemic and in the defence of public health. There are issues of general and specific interest relating to health regions, the National Transplant Organisation, private clinics, the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, the EEAS, the IPOS, as well as medical staff issues in hospitals. The long-term objectives are to ensure the proper and effective functioning of the hospitals and supervised bodies of the Ministry of Health. I am very pleased to mention the exception from 1 July 2020 from taking into account the threshold for pharmaceutical expenditure, the extra-brand expenditure on generic medicinal products and medicinal products for which the period of protection ended, the extension for one year - until 31 December 2021 - of the full exemption from the participation of the pharmaceutical expenditure of those beneficiaries who were definitively deprived of the CSR. This is a commitment by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis as a compensatory measure in the abolition of the CSCE by SYRIZA. The low pensioners of up to EUR 500 will continue this year, as in 2020, to have their medicines without any charge. The Government of New Democracy remains next to society, practically supports the job fragments and especially those who do so with little. Given the protracted need to deal with the pandemic, the framework for the implementation of last March's legislative act is extended. This strengthens the public health system since unskilled doctors can come directly to the public hospitals in the country. General doctors from EEAS who serve in full-time primary health structures are currently not in the system of newspapers. By joining the ESS doctors' sector, the health system is greatly strengthened and a serious issue is solved. The electronic prescribing system is also extended. All certified doctors are given the possibility of prescribing special treatments. It is easy to understand from everyone that the arrangements introduced to meet the long-term needs of the hospitals of the RIS to medical staff as well as the arrangements for the National Transplant Organisation, the IPOS, as well as the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association are not offered for micro-political exploitation. We all realise that we are increasingly close to where the country and society can return to their normal pace. I cannot imagine, then, that there is a colleague in this Chamber who disagrees with the arrangements for the uninterrupted operation and coverage of needs arising from the framework of the National Vaccine Programme. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been completing almost a year since the first case was recorded in Greece. From the first moment, the leadership of the Ministry, Mr. Kikilias, Mr. Kontozamanis, Mrs. Rapti and their partners proceeded correctly with the rationalisation of a constantly changing situation. And while we have grieved several victims of the coronary, the country in relation to the rest of the states has proved a great deal that the control of the Prime Minister and the restrictions have been right. And they were the protagonists of this battle and remain the medical, nursing, paramedical and auxiliary staff of all health structures. They lifted a shield of protection to our fellow citizens, and by self-renunciation and a high sense of responsibility they serve their duties. From the bottom of my heart I want to say a great thank you and warm congratulations. Ladies and gentlemen, the consequences of the pandemic at economic level will appear along the way. It will not be easy, we all know that. But we are determined to win the lost ground. Meanwhile, the initiatives of the government's financial staff and the relevant ministries have been such that they have greatly reduced the consequences to the present day. I would remind you that this is the first time in the history of this state that, while there was a universal lockdown, the entire private sector, businesses and workers, were financed and supported by the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has been united for over a year now proves in practice its seriousness and ability to manage difficult and constantly changing issues, and there have been little. Our country in the last year is also being put at the same time in many respects, the immigration issue with the crisis in Evros and the islands of the East Aegean, Turkey's provocativeness and aggression, the pandemic that hit the whole planet and has cost countless lives. At the same time, the government was called upon to face disasters of natural intensity and extent. More typical of all the example of my region, Karditsa, found at the center of Janus with unprecedented and indiscriminate consequences at all levels. Equally unprecedented, however, were the reflexes of the Mitsotakis government that quickly set up a prefecture and not just. We remain next to society by practically supporting the citizens. In this context, I call on you to ratify the two donations and support the regulations of the Ministry of Health in this bill. Despite our ideological differences, I ask you to recognise that the object of the bill shields public health and offers upgrades to the services provided to our fellow citizens. These are issues in which society requires all of us sympathy and useful results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Skondra, and the economy in time. We also saved time we had lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u54	Remember to give him to me next time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u55	Of course, I'll pay you back. The rapporteur, Mr Igoumenidis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Health on Latsis donation to the Generation Hospital and the Anticancer "The Children". It is a donation that we shall be voting in favour of. On the occasion of the government's ratification of this donation, there is a number of provisions concerning heterogeneous issues. On the one hand, they cannot convince us and do not show a coherent plan to strengthen the public health system, on the other, and that is why we cannot vote in favour of this plan, they are essentially in harmony with the planning positions of the New Democracy Government which, in fact, do not talk much more or less about increasing the vital area of the private health sector at the expense of the respective public sector. Ladies and gentlemen, those who, in their government programme, are talking about the assignment of functions of public hospitals to the private sector, those who have not had a troika should invent it, and who, on the pretext of the monumental obligations, have brought the public health system to the lid of destruction, operational collapse, those who have literally broken public primary health care on the urban fabric of Greece, those who, in a few hours' time, have effectively fired around the three thousand doctors without ever feeling the obligation to apologise for these choices, so today they are coming and talking about strengthening the public health system. It's not a political position. It is political manoeuvre just under the social pressure there is. There are many regulations on this and they confirm this position like these, for example, for private clinics. There was an old fragmented network of operations that the Left government in 2019 - the government that never hid its position in favour of the public health system - so that government of this old and outdated system abolished it, reformed it, modernised it after a far-reaching process of discussion with institutional bodies. And today, two years later, no application exists in the public domain for changing some of the regulations that we had adopted. No consultation has been promoted. What is the purpose of these changes in Articles 13 and 14, which we are obviously voting against? We have also spoken in the debate in the committees, Mr New Democracy. The removal of the EKT from a number of beneficiaries was a defeat that we had in our debate with the Troika, with the institutions. As a rewarding end, the left government established free access to the drugs of the people who had lost the CSCE. What you are doing today is an extension of this provision, and for 2021, that is an extension which is essentially and slowly brought to it. Of course the essential thing is that we need to see overall - and here you obviously do not agree with us - the issue of drug spending and the reduction of employee participation, not only by the beneficiaries of the CSCE. Our debate, ladies and gentlemen, has been initialled by the Ministry of Health. It couldn't be done otherwise, since it was a bill from the Ministry of Health. However, he spoke before the rapporteur of the New Democracy and said: "The New Democracy, the government is next to society. ELSTAT's data - I can't imagine anyone claiming to be syrrish and controlled by SYRIZA ELSTAT - are talking about a 31% reduction in the turnover of the catering shops. What did the New Democracy Government do, except to watch the crash of the industry as a spectator? You left medium-sized entrepreneurship without support. You know very well that 80% of small and medium-sized enterprises cannot have access to the financial relief measures you propose. You are not interested in what you characterize as 'collective losses', that is to say, the closure of several small and medium-sized enterprises and the new armies of the unemployed created. Below, the cursor in accommodation business, again with ELSTAT's data, fell 61%. What has New Democracy done that is next to society by its rapporteur? She preferred to subdue her policy and satisfy the interests of a few monopolistic circles that culminate not only in Greek but also in global tourism, instead of really bend on the Greek tourism product and the reflection it has in the Greek economy. How did you deal with the problems of workers who see their income lost, who see this poverty all over the pandemic? Any worker who is forced for health reasons to enter quarantine will be working a month unpaid overtime. That's what you institutionalised. Is that the "society next to"? Is that how you understand it? While, ladies and gentlemen, the daily life, the economic activity of the place, the state of health fundamentally contradicts Mr Mitsotakis' claim that his government is doing what is humanly possible, is coming the communication veil of the purchased government propaganda, of this paid virtual reality, to convince us about the very opposite. It is a communication intervention that does not even allow the opposite voice to be heard. And what about those who did not comply or do not comply with the suggestions? First, sanitary charges in various hospitals. I am not referring, Minister, only to the workers at Rethymnon Hospital. In a number of hospitals, we have health charges that expose problems. For the workers and doctors of the Rethymnon Hospital there is something else: The announcement of NGE Rethymnon. "We possess photographic material from three doctors on resignation." And it is deafening to silence the institutions that had to take a stand on this. Second, university police. Thirdly, a ban on trade union activity. Listen, listen, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative said earlier. Nine of them went to a hundred! Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be foolish, the New Democracy Government understands and fears the social reactions that are coming. So she exalts a carpet of authoritarianism to hide under this carpet all the problems that her policy is giving rise to or intensifies. Really, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, how many mouths do you hope to close with the persecution of health? How many health problems do you hope to solve or cover with these persecutions? How long will the Thousands of University Police take back the shortcomings in the education of young scientists? How many protest events do you hope to prevent by banning concentrations of more than a hundred people? And all right, I'm telling you, you're going to succeed in this. What about our brains? Will you check our thoughts too? Will you also check the reflection of the fighting society? Do not prove how unacceptable you are to learn or how much you are studying the history of the Greek and the world movement. Stop the authoritarian catapult. Stop prosecuting the dissidents. Don't move on to the establishment of the university police. Stop limiting trade union activity. Or, if you so want, you have the government majority, institutionalise and increase the list of legislation that will fade away, withdraw, withdraw the left once. It is a fact that the communication veil, ladies and gentlemen, together with authoritarianism comes to cover the shortcomings of the New Democracy's policy. There is the following view: "But they cannot do more and they cannot do more." Here I agree that to some extent there is a matter of competence. Let's get a little on health. The fact that there have been hospital governors or there have been people who have claimed the positions of hospital governors by proposing not their skills and qualifications, but the votes they have brought to the New Democracy, that we have such examples, Minister, indeed confirms that there is a matter of competence. However, this is not the main. The main is not verbal games - if you like - between excellent and useless. They are not committed to their inability. They are committed to their ideology. Really, when your ideological luggage is traded in health, how can they organise universal free, equal access for citizens to a high level of health services provided by a public health system? When you walk through the ideological tracks, you make roads subordinate to the interests of elites and a few, why would you prefer small and medium-sized business to big stores? When in unemployment, low wages, the impoverishment of society, the destruction of industrial relations, you see investment magnet, how to deal with, how to stand up and support workers and work? The conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, is that, in our view, the neoliberal political proposal of the New Democracy, the political proposal of the Mitsotakis Government seriously harms health, seriously harms the economy, is seriously harming the country. What would SYRIZA do? We have often submitted our proposals to the public on a number of occasions. I'm going to report in titles some of the latest proposals that Alexis Tsipras put forward. Transparency and public access to epidemiological data and expert recommendations. The aim is to prevent the spread of the virus in the community and in the areas of transpon. Aggregation of all available sanitary forces. Creation of private clinics and rehabilitation centres. Exploiting military hospitals. Support the morality of the first line of people with the greatest possible support to hospitals and health centres with a plan of fifteen thousand permanent recruitments to the ESS by upgrading the remuneration of staff. Compensation by EEAS of diagnostic tests carried out in private laboratories. Active involvement of all structures and people of primary health care for the home surveillance of patients who are quarantine or have other serious illnesses. Increase public health spending in line with the European average. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] Mr. President, I'm closing. For the immediate vaccination coverage of the population, for the rapid preparation of the COVID vaccine, the government must move, intervention and initiatives to break the patent to the production of the COVID vaccine -19. This proposal by Alexis Tsipras, as a representative of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, for the vaccine, public good accessible to all, is the intervention that even before expressing it, speeded up the Maximos Mansion to mock Alexis Tsipras and his associates. It is the proposal by which the pharmaceuticals, too, obviously disagreed - we have seen it - that it cannot be done, that the patent will be broken. However, ladies and gentlemen, first of all it is the proposal that faces all the topicality of the last two days. You heard me. A program the hundred million Americans who need to be vaccinated and Biden promised. Do not the European Union give vaccines to the United Kingdom who left the Union. Do not allow exports to a particular pharmaceutical industry based in the European Union. All of this, in two words: vaccinationist nationalism. It is the proposal that is actually dealing with it. I shall submit to the Minutes, Mr President, something I have downloaded from the Internet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u57	Shut up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u58	That's what I'm closing down with. I shall table the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. [[At this point, MP Nikolaos Igoumenides submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It is a council in which one of the Vice-Presidents is Mrs Bakoyannis. In the presence of the Director-General of the WHO, the World Health Organisation, the decision by almost a hundred and fifteen votes in favour and two against and for the vaccination of COVID by a seventy-two vote in favour and sixteen against was voted. What the Maximos Mansion, the New Democracy and some pharmaceutical workers have said, is that it is not possible. It adopted the amendment tabled by the Group of the European Left calling for the Council of Europe. The authorities of the European Union and States should overcome the barriers and restrictions on intellectual property by vaccine patents in order to ensure the generalised production and distribution of vaccines in all countries and all citizens. The same assembly with ninety-nine votes in favour and eleven against, voted against.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Igoumenides, please. We know that. We read them in the papers. You don't have to let us know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u60	Let's hear it again, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Polakis, calm down. I know them very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u62	I would like to say that he voted against the proposal made by Mr Mitsotakis, a proposal supported by the Social Democrats and the neoliberals by saying and deciding to use the vaccination certificate only for the designated purpose of monitoring the effectiveness of the vaccine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u63	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u64	I think, Mr President, and I am closing down with that that the way in which the pandemic is dealt with clearly...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Igoumenides, I'll turn off the microphone. Please, eighteen minutes you've been talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, I will take time from my remarks. I would like to say that dealing with pandemic has clearly a class mark, it needs seriousness, confidence in experts, a sense of responsibility towards society and political courage for brave decisions. The treatment of pandemic is not a matter of communication games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u67	To deal with the pandemic, vaccines and Eurohaus are about to come out of their graves, De Gaul, Adenawer, Mitterrand and Brad, and make Europe again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u68	Where does that fit now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u69	It sticks to what is happening in Europe. I'm not answering Mr. Igoumenides. I answer what is happening in Europe. Or haven't you gotten a hammer? Mr Poula, please wait three minutes, because he wants the Minister to make an intervention to tell the government's position on introductorys and not on the bill. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. I usually don't abuse colleagues' time. Although I must stress that in the last bill that came to Parliament and we came to discuss it late in the evening, we did not respect our fellow Members who asked to speak, precisely because some people along the way spoke more than normal, abused the time of our colleagues. I, therefore, respect colleagues, all Members. I would say that in these ten hours you have decided that the debate on health and legislation should take place we will be able to work in this spirit. My position will be within three and a half minutes and will include what has been heard earlier and two issues which I would like to put forward about what has to do with the bill. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister for Health - following the way in which the meeting began and on the basis of my previous position in relation to this meeting at the court of appeal - I must ask everyone to be very responsible and careful about how and what fellow citizens we are motivating about, especially about the Attica and the epidemiological data that has been presented in recent days. I believe that we must all show responsibility, first of all, for parties, groups and colleagues, in relation to what you see our scientists have been analyzing over the past few days and having to do with the precarious situation in the Attica basin. I would remind you that the Attica basin includes half the country's population. Five million people. I would ask you all very much to show self - control and to respect the battle that the doctors, nurses and the rest of our hospital staff are fighting for, but also for the families of those who are mourning victims or who are hospitalized by relatives. We should all try to defend public health if possible. I take the floor, Mr President, on the part of this bill, which I think should be put forward and recognised. Some have said that within the pandemic, the only thing the Ministry of Health and the government does is to deal with the ICUs. We've actually built twice as many ICUs. We've equipped them. We're strengthening them. Others are coming to inaugurate. I would like to stress, thank and say that we are thankful as a Greek society at the Joint Benefits Foundation "Ioannis Latsis" for its donation, of a thousand hundred and ninety-two square meters of the new GLP of the "Genders" Hospital. The General Hospital is an emblematic hospital for the National Health System. Its TPAs, which are key in the on-calls of the entire Lecade, will be upgraded and become the latest technology, with all machines, all buildings, in order to offer health services. It is key, it is important, and I am glad that this is going ahead with our governance. Also, I would like to thank Mrs Marianna Latsi for the kind donation that is cobia for northern Greece. Five hundred and sixty-four square meters are offered at the "Theamenio" Hospital of the "Nikos Kourkoulos" Day Hospital. I want to explain what this is about. Likewise, this unit has been located for a few years at the San Savvas Hospital in a special annex. Our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who have oncological problems have the opportunity and opportunity to receive the appropriate treatments at very high levels of health. That's worth Northern Greece having that too. I am very pleased that with Mrs Latsis' noble donation, we can also have the equivalent daily care unit in northern Greece for thousands of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who have this need. Every day and the news can be another, but it must be emphasized and repeated that together all Greek society, having and having no one, who want and can benefit all the others who benefit from the National Health System, especially people who do not have or cannot, see the National Health System improved day by day and by the means of pandemic. They see our structures being strengthened, they see better services being offered. They see intakes being overcrowded in health. They see that the Greek state horizontally and in its entirety respects the Greek patient, respects our fellow citizens and tries successfully to strengthen the ESS, strengthen the ESS, upgrade the ESS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the President of the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Members of its Party tabled today on 28 January 2021 a proposal for a law: 'Strengthening and protecting higher education institutions'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr Poulas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the problematic procedure for the supply of vaccines by the European Union cannot be an excuse for government failures. The European Commission's attempt to reduce costs and, at the same time, the pressure exerted by the strong countries to obtain greater quantities and faster, we are all very much concerned about it. Finally, who has not fulfilled his contractual obligations? What has the European Commission not been able to predict and is currently blocking the planning of vaccination throughout Europe? On the other hand, the citizens of Europe are anxiously and mistrustful to conduct a negotiating theatre, between the European Commission and the pharmaceutical companies producing the vaccine. In our country the theatre of the information and teleconferencing conferences of the executive state, which proves to be a lot of fuss about nothing. It is a common place that the European Union has failed to ensure the smooth supply of all Member States with vaccines. It failed in its planning. Mostly, it failed to protect the vaccine as a public good through the concession by the companies manufacturing the vaccine either the patent or the production capacities. Already Germany and Denmark are trying to secure vaccines from other sources outside the European Union. At the same time, what do we do? We are adopting communication tactics for the management of failure, putting the ball on the platform, as is the proposal for the vaccination certificate, which will obviously not be implemented because of the reactions of France and Germany. Meanwhile, cases are increasing rather than decreasing, the mutations of the virus are increasingly worrying and, of course, the pressure on the ESS is not expected to fall. Of course, scientific data on imported cases cannot lead to safe conclusions, and the evidence found in urban waste water shows that we are moving in unknown waters, which increases health insecurity. Everything leads to the conclusion that we are close to a third wave of pandemic, unknown fierceness and possible epidemiological explosion. Although we are once again at the borderline of the epidemiological alarm, what you need to do now is prepare the health system to withstand and give the world the message that we can and must be able to do it. So your government must do what it has not done so far. What's he gonna do? Strengthen the National Health System by staff and funding and modernise its building infrastructure and renew medical equipment. To create a strong pro-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo-noo. Ensure resources and organisational capabilities, so that the EGE and the EEAS are respected in their institutional role. To ensure as many tests as possible. Ensure the country's adequacy of medicine and innovative medicines. To fund medical research and exploit the scientific staff of the country. And all of this under a coherent, comprehensive and functional design. Instead of such a prospect, which would give your citizens hope and your social policy, we see in every draft law by the Ministry of Health that you are committed and fully oriented to implementing your election agenda, which does not include any of the above. And in this draft law, then, it seems that you are attempting to earn time without bringing about any substantial change in public health. You're making small dispensations, fragmentary moves and cuffs, which in nothing change the landscape. Your only concern is the communication management of the pandemic, in order to convince public opinion that you supposedly do something good. So what is the reality? With regard to donations, while they could become institutionally an additional source of public health funding, they have fallen victim to steam and your inability to manage them. So, instead of setting up a permanent, impeccable and transparent mechanism to make use of the balanced and horizontal, where the ESS suffers more, as we have proposed several times as a Change Movement, you are using them as a communication firework in order to maintain your supposedly social personality, which artificially creates you with the violin media. As far as the medicine is concerned, you have done the amazing thing: to have left them all unpleasant, and the pharmaceutical companies and the private diagnostic centres, and also the citizens, who continue to pay a lot of the medical expenses from their pocket and require cheap, good and effective medicine. We recall that in the decades of the memorandum 48% of the pharmaceutical expenditure control measures were borne by the pharmaceutical industry through clawback and 30% by increasing their participation in the pharmaceutical expenditure. The participation of the insurance funds was limited to 12% and the state to 3%, while in 2009 the state had taken 78% of the pharmaceutical expenditure. Unfortunately, even today, there has not been a class in the anarchy that prevails in the field of medicine. The EEAS has failed to develop those mechanisms that will provide institutional and long-term funding for the pharmaceutical expenditure, so that the clawback institution becomes sustainable and functional and not rocky in the neck of pharmaceutical companies and an open wound to the revenues of the EEAS. So, instead of discussing today the redistribution of clawback, we should be discussing the Ministry of Health initiatives to control and limit clawback through the tools it already has, such as prescribing control, the application of therapeutic protocols, the application of patients' registers and more. Of course, the level of pharmaceutical expenditure is also inextricably linked to the increased health needs of an elderly population. However, rational management cannot be done unless the actual revenue of the EEAS is controlled and no increase is made. It is also obvious that there is a chaos in terms of the administration, operation and data of the EEAS, which means that you have not brought any substantial results in this area. And all this is done on the taxpayers' back, as not all the pharmaceutical companies pay the clawback, nor do we have any savings in the cost of the medicine. But instead of running and organising the EEAS effectively and dynamically as a huge monopsy that dominates the Greek market, you are looking to find chairs for posters you appoint. Thus, every year you seek millions to cover the overrun in the medical expenditure, with an increasing amount of deviation each year. Even today we do not know what hospitals are spending on drugs, we do not know which pharmaceutical companies systematically pay the amount of clawback that they receive and what they owe. How many of them are owed and owed? The pharmaceutical companies have conducted clinical studies? Have they benefited from these studies of the discount that we introduced in the first health bill brought by your Government? You keep the percentage of the state budget corresponding to the drug stranded, while the needs are increasing, and innovative medicines do not enter the market. At the same time, the negotiating committee tends to remain decorative, even though it could have a substantial role in the retention of drug prices. You have been satisfied with the suspension of the budget targets due to COVID -19 and the suspension of the discharge of our country's budgetary obligations by 2022. But then what are you gonna do? If you do not take care to regulate the drug sector in which billions of euros are spent every year, then it will be the Greek taxpayer again. As far as the private sector is concerned, you systematically reserve an unjustly favourable attitude to private clinics, not only with urban facilities and increasing daily compensation for IF beds, but also with the provocative choice to keep them out of the management of the pandemic. Even when the public hospitals had "critical" in Macedonia you decided to check just two private clinics for the CIVID hospital and only after popular outcry and probably for the eyes of the world. And while you were seeing the number of serious incidents growing, you continued the heartless negotiation with the clinical chiefs by losing valuable time and allowing your oligopoly to be lost human lives outside the ICU. But you had the answer ready. In difficult circumstances, it is always the other people, whether they are the health workers or the careless citizens. The government has never taken the blame for it. Faced with the governmental hypocrisy in front of the people of the NSH who were ill and some of them ended up, the Change Movement insists that their reward should be immediate and specific: a Christmas gift, incorporation into heavy and unhealthy, introduction of duty free of newspapers and a convergence of wages with those in the rest of Europe and, of course, a speeding up of recruitments, as already the people who manage public hospitals with record hours are on duty in on-call movements and distractions, health centers, vaccination centres, at the cost of mental and physical. Now, with a provision in this bill you also have qualified doctors to meet needs in the vaccination centres. I don't understand, everybody for everything? The interns are for other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u73	What things? The whole of Europe is doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u74	There are private doctors, there are military doctors. There are, there are, there are. Use them. At last, do something that makes sense!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u75	Keep an eye on when you come and talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u76	Regarding transplants, you regulate matters regarding organ transplantation, such as the emotional donor, the organisation of donor centres by the National Transplant Organisation, the attraction of candidate volunteers, as well as the National Register of Candidates for Cooperatives. I would expect a more comprehensive bill on the issue of transplantation. This is an extremely important issue for the medical community in which our country is moving slowly. We still have prejudices and hesitation to gain a transplant culture and increase donors throughout the entire transplant range. Our country has one of the lowest donor rates and I see nothing to change this situation. As far as health regions are concerned, increasing the regions to thirteen and their spatial match with administrative regions is a debate in 2011. Electoral Prime Minister, on 20-5-2018, at the development conference held in Corfu, spoke of thirteen healthcare regions, one per region of the country. If I am not mistaken, your programme mentions what you have brought us today. However, two years after your administration you have not dared. Why? Apart from the awkward management of the pandemic by your state of staff, such as when you open schools and retailing, but not the courts, you give the impression that you have a picture of inflated risk that is not controlled if it results from scientific evidence to create a fait accompli in society. For example, restricting meetings has caused intense reactions. What's the matter with both of you? Is the virus transmitted to the squares and streets rather than to shops and shopping centers? With your relics you give space to conspiracy theories and disobedience. Don't you understand? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, we urge you to be vigilant in the face of a third pandemic wave. The situation is marginal. I don't want to believe that you've lost your initiative of moves and gone to blind, unscrupulous, cowardly and scared. Now is the time to discuss, plan the future of public health. It is time to overcome party ideas, achieve wider consensus and alliances to change the area of public health by looking into the future. We are waiting for a concrete and targeted plan for where European funds will be channelled. We do not want to see another missed opportunity for our country, especially for public health, because of either political disarmament or poor priority for needs. That is why we are waiting for you to have a reform plan that meets the expectations of the citizens, which is worthy of the circumstances and which inspires citizens trust, social solidarity and humanism. In principle - and I conclude with this, Mr President - we will vote on the bill despite our individual objections to certain articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u77	Me too, Mr. Poula. The speech has now become a special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr George Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, students, teachers, parents, workers today in Athens and other cities in Greece are making the real needs of education, schools and schools to work safely in pandemic conditions, while condemning the whole of anti-education policy, calling for the withdrawal of the new draft law of the Ministry of Education. But they also give a response to the escalating authoritarianism and suppression of the government, which is the permanent component of its policy, in order to pass its anti-popular policy through fire and iron. She's deeply deceived by the government that this way she has her hands broken to do whatever she wants. He's taking on huge responsibilities. Our people, students, students, teachers, workers won't back off. And I come to the bill, Mr President, which contains articles on a number of issues which regulate, facilitate, but which, in their entirety, reflect the continuation of the classic anti-linguistic policy implemented by the current government, especially at this time in terms of the unprecedented and critical situations of the pandemic experienced by our people. So, on the one hand, the Government does not promote measures required in the exceptional circumstances experienced by our country, as it has done all the previous period, on the other hand, taking advantage of the exceptional circumstances of the period as an opportunity to promote reactionary changes, but also to support the demands of the large groups, such as those of the pharmaceutical industry. Regarding the first convention on the modernisation, upgrading of the TPAs of the General State Hospital of Athens "GEORGIOS GENNAMAS", as we said in committee, we have nothing to notice. We stressed, however, that the corresponding needs for interventions, such as equipment, the improvement in the operation of TDIs, are faced with many hospitals on the ground. What about this? Will they wait for any donation when and whenever it comes? Immediately from the state - something that had to be done beforehand - it would have to undertake to implement all these necessary interventions needed to operate the TGVs decently. As far as the second contract concerning the establishment of the Day Hospital at the “The Watchtower” Hospital of Thessaloniki is concerned, however, the need for its creation arises because of the current problem, namely the huge number of cancer patients attending the hospital. But why is that? In time, it is due to the subsistence and shortages in regional hospitals of corresponding specialties and infrastructure, and therefore patients are suffering as they are forced to move and to be subjected to costs. We note that in the existing hostel the accommodation of guest patients and escorts is not free, as we believe it should be. Thus, some patients pay through EPPY, and escorts pay 20 euros a day. In committee we have, of course, raised a number of questions and concerns and we have waited, but we have not had an answer. Firstly, the area of creation of the new unit is granted by means of a loan to the “Gaveline”. We have been asked by the Minister to inform us of this contract, to give it to us, so that we can get to know each other. Nothing! Secondly, the grant of the loan is for 15 years. Then what's predicted? There is provision for the renewal of the donation between the Greek Anticancer Society and the “Theagenio” Hospital. For non-renewal, however, the Greek Anticancer Society is obliged to contract with another hospital. Why can't concession be done for more years? We have also told the committee that it should also be done in the inter-industry. But what is on this basis, in our view? The development and operation of the plant will depend on a private body, which is largely financed by the State. In other words, a private body will regulate public health issues, which may be the precursor, opens the way, if you like, for public-private partnerships that it fits, gambles with the policy of commercialisation and business operation of public health structures promoted by the current government. Thirdly, we have put it and put it from this Step, and it is a series of prerequisites that go into the contract, with more important, if you like, the question of the operation of the daily care unit. The staffing, how's it going to be? It will be carried out by transferring staff, not by staffing new recruits, young workers, health and all necessary resources. Fourthly, could it not, for example, be possible for the construction of the unit, in the context of the donation, to take place in a place to be granted by the State? Considering the second Convention as a priority and on the basis of what we have said, we will vote against Article 1. In fact, in the provision for the extension of the ex-subscribing CSR from participation in the pharmacy expenditure, it is the well-known popular proverb "To make you my Yiannis burn, to grind you oil". Indeed, galantomy - mockery - is such that it is also seen as a compensatory measure, as is also mentioned in this article. In fact, how compensatory are the EUR 20 million to be granted to the EEAS from the state budget to cover this expenditure, in front of or against, if you like, in the billions stolen from the beneficiaries of the EAEC on the one hand, and from all pensioners on the other? Why shouldn't it? We have proposed that in committee, we say that here too. Why should the measure not apply to all low-pensions and no expiry date? Do it. However, here there are pensioners who are lower than those who took the NSRF, and that is why you have all of course taken care of - successively all governments - by reinsurance laws. But instead of the drug being free for the people, with your policies, all the governments have made the medicament "drug" for the people, expelling payments from the people. And you come once again, the government, like the previous government, and you give another gift to the pharmaceuticals through the compulsory refunds, clawback. That is why you also receive their thanks and, as has been said in committee, their complaints. They demand greater reductions in order to increase their profitability. All for the profit! On the one hand, the strengthening and improvement of the functioning of the committees - Article 12 - on the other, on the other, dealing with so-called pharmaceutical insurance, that is, the mechanism to strengthen the payments of medicinal products by patients. And from the closest we have new regulations in Articles 13 and 14 in favour of the development of private health entrepreneurs, committees that will make the wheelchairman in the operation of private clinics, arrangements in the private sector for the alleged requisition made, but also arrangements for strengthening the body responsible for costing health services, on the basis of strengthening the business operation of public health establishments, such as TLGS, etc. And rather, by wanting to get some of the glamorous anti-educational policy promoted by the Ministry of Education - the government - you establish in Article 16 the establishment and operation of a university clinic in a practically private therapist, such as the "Greek", and you also contribute to the opening of the door to the deeper interconnection of the educational process with the private sector. We also heard the Minister earlier, but also throughout the past period the political leadership, the government. So you are trying to support your political choices, which continue to have tragic consequences for our people, and you are presenting a virtual reality which cannot hide any shortcomings or the fact that the public health system has turned into a system of disease, with what this means to the overall health needs. This is because your criteria for the management of the pandemic are not the needs of the people, but business, economic and political criteria. Because, for example, the regulations of this bill are not the only shielding of the public health system, even in front of the vaccination period that began. And all the measures you had to take in the health sector weren't doing, you don't, but you won't, because it's a purely conscious choice for you, since protecting the health of the people you consider it to be cost and the cost of protection threatens great capitalist profitability. This blocks the immunity of the health system and not the inability or lack of planning, as SYRIZA or other parties testify to you. That is why you are going to patches, for example by hiring unskilled doctors with part-time employment for four months. Why don't you hire all those who are on hold, based on the specialty they want to acquire? Proceed to individual modifications to shorten candidate procedures for recruitment. However, why do you not immediately hire all those who have the qualifications and without any conditions? Similarly, why do you not recruit all the general doctors of the 2019 notice, which the process has frozen, since the situation in primary health care is tragic? Why do you not permanently, here and now, all ancillary staff, the contract staff through OAEDs of any body, who too are unable to meet the enormous needs and gaps in secondary and primary health care? Even to strengthen the PPPY, you are seconding staff from other bodies, based on the establishment of organic positions, doctors of physical and medical rehabilitation. Another thing is intake in empty organic positions and another thing about recruiting staff. In the first you are capable of both New Democracy and SYRIZA. But in the second, you're both short of it. However, at the same time, radiation physics positions are formed by conversion of organic positions of other specialties. Appropriately for the EEA, subsidiarity is established in recruitments, applying precisely the policy of malleable labour relations with expiry date, when the needs - obviously not only in the EEA - are huge and stable. Even for the vaccination centres, instead of recruiting doctors who are necessary in the cracked and degraded primary health care, with the responsibility of all governments over time, what are you doing? Move qualified doctors from hospitals to health centers for a certain period of time, but taking staff away from health establishments, that is, hospitals, which already operate and are invited, along with the third wave of pandemic and chronic patients - but which are excluded due to the fact that hospitals have been converted into hospitals of a disease - to respond to the vaccination of the population. Thus, instead of mass recruitment in primary health care and hospitals, you regularly recycle existing personnel. Really, will the residents be responsible for the vaccination process, not specialist doctors, as they must be, and as you know very well? What will be done with the conditions of fusion and co-mortemment of the healthy population coming for vaccination, with the patients who will come to hospitals to find health services? How will the necessary monitoring of vaccinees be ensured for any side effects? Because, in the implementation of your policy, you also need allies, with Article 17, you promote and strengthen the role and responsibilities of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association as a state institution in the service of the respective bourgeois government and its contribution to the processing and implementation of anti-grassroots health policy, as well as the measures directed against the interests of most of the employees and self-employed doctors. With the regulation you bring about transplants, such an important and at the same time sensitive sector, you objectively facilitate the development of the transaction in order to find a graft, after you remove part of the objective criteria in the priority series, by strengthening the inequality in this very serious issue. Is this how the reduced transplant activity is treated? At the same time, there is nothing to say and, above all, you are doing nothing toward the continuing level of transplantation that creates enormous health shortages in the ICUs, which are the first link in the transplant chain, the shortcomings of other scientific expertise, psychologists, etc., the lack of corresponding specific support centres within the public hospitals to promote organ donation, the absence of a necessary organised information campaign among the Greeks to overcome fears, prejudices, opinions, hooks, etc., regarding organ donation. Accordingly, there is no function of modern public transplant centres, fully staffed with permanent staff and modern medical equipment On the basis of developments around vaccines, the delays in vaccine delivery, the contours on contract terms, which remain a seven-sealed secret, and the obstacles the European Union puts in search of vaccines from other sources show that competition, the hunting of profit, geopolitical contradictions and what other characterizes the capitalist system deprives of any armour against the coronary. Thus, on the one hand, the production of vaccines on the basis of profit brakes production capacities and, on the other, undermines generalised vaccination, and the policy of support for capitalist profitability by governments and states "swaps" even further public health systems. This is because in one month the government's unexplained promises of two million vaccinations per month have succeeded in confronting delays in the delivery of vaccines, as the European Union's famous solidarity and parity, as well as the exemplary cooperation of the pharmaceutical industries, as you have been pro-raising, have been crushed in the minds of competition for greater profitability. On the ground of these developments, we confirm the need to strengthen the fight for all the necessary measures that the health workers, trade unions, other mass bodies, namely the strengthening of the public health system, mass free and regular tests at large workplaces, together with other measures such as the decongestion of public transport, the armoring of schools and others. Thus, the dead-ends experienced by the people by the political management of the pandemic on the basis of winnings are growing day after day. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] No one can feel safe as long as health and medicine is a source of profit for monopolies, and today there are all the conditions for providing high standards and free health services to all based on the achievements of science, the high levels of productivity, the size of the wealth produced. Right there must be the struggle of the people, bringing their modern needs to the fore. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Madam President, I'm closing. But let me make a brief reference. The Group of the Party of European Socialists tabled an amendment providing for the possibility of converting full-time work into full-time working for Otta workers, but also for legal persons governed by public law. We expect the ministers to take a position on our amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Athanasios has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to comment on the multiplier plan, I would like to make some points. The horn pandemic is undoubtedly the incentive for all modern states in the world to modernise their public health system and the concept of "humanism" to become a priority for every citizen, to have a clear anthropocentric orientation. It is time to set a long-term policy to ensure public health, focusing solely on the value of human life. Instead of putting public health as a crown of the priorities of your Government, you are resorting to bias, serving party interests and political purposes. The support of the National Health System has only been a pre-formal one for almost a year now, as far as health care is concerned and the modernisation of infrastructures is concerned. The only thing you're interested in is the exercise of communication policy. Instead of funding health, you are dependent on the good intentions of individuals, as is the case with the adoption of the two current conventions. The culmination of government incompetence is the lack of reaction to the inability of pharmaceutical companies to follow the timetable for the provision of vaccines, which the government itself had set up at a national level. At the time when the Italian Government and the Commission itself demand explanations from pharmaceuticals, the Government of New Democracy is curiously silent. The delays in the delivery of vaccines cause concern, but also anger in the European Union, which requires the pharmaceutical industry to comply with the agreements. The reduction in deliveries during the first quarter, according to the international press leaks, is 60%, only thirty million doses instead of eighty million expected. Germany is in consultation with Russia on any production of the Sputnik vaccine in its country. Why don't we make a bilateral agreement, since we have every right? On the first part of this draft law, namely the donation of the Latsis Foundation, to highlight the following. The Greek State, due to the weaknesses of the "Genemas" Hospital, requested financial support - donation from the donor for the upgrading - renovation of the emergency department. This Convention shall be donated. Furthermore, it is foreseen that the donor fully undertakes the financing of the project. There is an explicit prediction that the donor will select the contractor or body to undertake the project. It should be noted that provision is made for the possibility of selecting a foreign body. Incomprehensible things! So, if the institution chooses Turkish interests, what happens? There is no provision of competence in paragraph 6 of the Convention, so that the State cannot even object. Of course, this is a donation with which some improvements will be made to the Emergency Unit of the “General Ecstasy” Hospital, and from this point of view, welcome is the donation. But here, we have a contract in which the Greek State has absolutely no reason. Whoever finances has the right of opinion alone. That's what happens when you're bankrupt and unscrupulous. Where's your social policy? The State is primarily responsible for the financing of all hospital facilities, which must not be left to well-being. If so, whenever a hospital has problems, to address individuals and those hospitals do not have the necessary acquaintances, to leave to God’s mercy, because the state does not have the political will to stand by a charity next to them. As far as the second donation is concerned, the same applies above - down. The selection of a contractor shall be defined as such in the previous agreement, i.e. upon selection of the donor and shall be indicated as being selected from abroad for the performance of the project. Furthermore, it is foreseen that materials and machines imported from the alien will be exempted from any general or specific tax. In addition, how will the Greek Anticancer Company assume obligations regarding the transportation of Thessaloniki and other issues that go beyond its capabilities, such as waste management? These are issues that the Greek government or the region had to take on. Respectable and absolutely necessary are donations that strengthen our country's health sector, as the public interest is met. However, project assignments to foreign bodies require particular attention. We need to stimulate our national economy and any materials that are necessarily purchased from the domestic market. This is how the cycle of the economy moves, especially in such difficult times. We should consider the amount of money available to carry out the projects. It would be advisable to take advantage of Greek operators and companies and not foreign companies. With regard to the other articles of the draft law, I would like to stress the following: In Article 2, as the Greek Pharmaceutical Business Association says in this regard, the clawback applies to fifteen countries of the European Union. It's nothing new. The problem and distortion in our country are that the amount is unthinkable and therefore any change in the way it is calculated creates major problems for companies that will bear the additional burden. In particular, the proposed change calculates a transfer of at least EUR 50 million on an annual basis from many companies to the detriment of a few companies with prototype medicines. This is how the state and the Ministry of Health once again passes a false message to the international industry about how these medicines and new medicines are handled in general. The Ministry of Health has committed itself and must limit clawback and remove distortions as identified by the European Commission and the enhanced surveillance reports. According to the European Commission, there is a business and moral risk due to the amount of clawback and the distorting policies applied to the drug. In fact, clawback acts as a stimulus for any action on the part of the state. The Ministry of Health must check and limit it by prescribing or registering patients. This provision does not offer any benefit to the State and no positive impact on the budget. On the other hand, it is expected to increase the level of overrun due to the method of compensation for medicinal products proposed to be excluded. In Article 4, the government operates over time. It asks for extensions over and over from the board of directors. When will you learn to be consistent in your programming? In Article 5 it is clear that with the present regulations and the recruitment of staff you are trying to fill the gaps and needs of the pandemic. In Article 6, we disagree with the level of compensation for private clinics. The requisition refers to elementary compensation rather than to an indirect remuneration for the provision of services. Are you so pleased by his contribution to public health, and in particular by intercepting the pandemic that you are helping them so much in expanding their buildings, at the same time that the allowance to health is inexistent? How far will your stifling arrive? Article 8 states that, by decision of the Board of Directors, high-cost medicinal products are excluded from the pre-authorisation process, which could be classified as being dangerous to public health. Also days ago, the pharmaceutical company in the name of "VERTEX" announced that it would be a distributor of a medicinal product in Greece, with the result that the orders given to IFET were cancelled, in order to obtain a new code. However, last week, "VERTEX" with its simple announcement to IFET said that the agreement on the distribution of the above drugs, namely Orkambi and Caftrio of cystic fibrosis, would not be reached, so that a new order code would be needed and patients would therefore expect medications for about a month and a half. IFET replied that he does not receive the necessary financial support to order medicines for all the patients who deserve it. Minister, you need to be placed on this problem. In Article 11, we are talking about substantial sums of money which must not be treated with such a handfulness. The redistribution of commissions by decision of the Board of Directors of the EEAS is a hot issue, which we disagree on. Articles 13 and 14 shall constitute photographic provisions. In fact, more profit margins are given to private clinics by stacking patients. These are regulations which clearly seek to promote the development of private health entrepreneurs. You don't even have the pretexts! Article 19 addresses a very sensitive issue of these transplants, with reference to compliance with the necessary procedures for the protection of personal data, facilitating the transfer of grafts, facilitating the transplantation process. It is, however, important to bear in mind the serious comments made by the ESDC concerning the need to withdraw paragraph 6 of Article 19, which makes it difficult for the national recipients' registers to function. The essence is that when there is a graft available, it should move earth and heaven in order to receive it by a patient who has deposited all his hopes there. Imagine finding a graft, the patient meets the conditions and does not inform a hospital at that time! Gentlemen, on Saturday it became for man, and not for the man for Saturday, as our Christ said, in consolidating the hypocrisy of modern Pharisees. All strangles derived from procedures and malfunctions must be treated positively, effectively for the benefit of patients. On the contrary, paragraph 7 covers the proper functioning of the applicant’s register and it is sufficient to do so. Article 30 provides that the anonymous non-profit-making company called ‘Centre for Documentation and Costaging Hospital Services S.A.’ may collect electronically through a specific application and processing all financial and medical data from the administrative and medical records of hospitals in order to meet the objectives of the Centre listed in that Article. However, all necessary and available safeguards should be taken to protect sensitive personal data processed from this electronic platform. Particular attention should be paid to the regular update of the methods for the protection of personal data listed in the case; in particular to the methods for recording the user data entering the system, as well as the use of anonymisation, narcoticisation and encryption of personal data made available to certified users and the centre. And I come to Article 33 on the movement of qualified doctors to meet needs under the national vaccination programme. Application of this provision may be potentially dangerous to public health as you allow the movement of specialists into vaccination centres and their exclusion from the hospital newspaper programme where they carry out their specialty. Really, how many skilled do you have left if you move the categories of skilled people you report or do you intend to produce their help from the unskilled doctors referred to in Article 24? Especially in this article, your lack of prediction and programming is apparent. Please tell us which doctors unskilled will be able to cope with emergencies that may occur in a newspaper. So what do you want? To transfer the countryside service status to our public hospitals? Do you envision such health upgrades? A lot of doctors without specialty. At the same time, many organic posts of qualified doctors remain empty. We cannot, during a pandemic period and while our public hospitals have such a lack of staff, choose which colleagues will not be recruited. 'Presentation' has also been mentioned by the President of the GDR. On the other hand, you are due to urgent procedures to recruit all doctors who have applied for the positions that have arisen. On the substance, such measures despair the ESS. They weaken its proper functioning and make it potentially dangerous to citizens. Recruitment of permanently qualified staff in hospitals. Gentlemen, this bill comes to prove that you are simply squatting the problems and not giving substantial help to the health system. If you wanted the substance, your design would include not only the vaccine but also medications, with approved FDA preparations, for example, to effectively deal with the initial symptoms, so that the patients do not reach our hospitals. However, this would presuppose the immediate upgrade of primary health care, which in fact seemed not to belong to your intentions, much more to your immediate priorities. That is why, gentlemen, you have only confined yourself to the vaccine, which is not the only effective solution. You have fled to the destructive lockdown. You let the ESS decay and you rely on donations from institutions. Is that the proper management of the pandemic? The good of public health takes precedence over everyone. It is supreme and unnegotiable. Without public health, neither the economy exists nor production can be maintained nor banks of course survive. Our health system is being dramatically lacking in relation to other European countries, and this is especially what we see in the pandemic era. The Government is obliged to salvage the good of public health by aid to hospitals, recruitment of medical staff, and to require the European Union to provide the necessary financial cover. National health systems must be strong and staffed with all those necessary resources, human and material, which characterise a modern state. Health problems in our country are many and unfortunately the pandemic has worsened even further. Unfortunately, as it turns out, you are unable to cope with an integrated national health system that will serve above all people and not economic interests. Instead of taking an example from the organisation of the national health system in other countries, which have been tested very hard by the pandemic, but have made sure that they organise, at the same time, their national systems, you are still resorting to panic movements, such as direct recruitment of doctors without specialty - really, what exactly specific needs can they meet? - distractions, extensions, interim measures and temporary solutions until we see what will take us dawn. Regrettably, however, instead of acting with vision, program and not to inactivate, but to take advantage of the fact that during the first ten months of the first century of COVID -19 the fatigue of the National Health System has been avoided, on the contrary, you have failed, you have neglected to act with spiritual material, to obtain suitable equipment, to organise and manage resources effectively. You act as if you weren't expecting the second and possibly, if you continue with the same amateurism, and the third heavier wave. You act with the logic of dealing with unforeseen and exceptional situations, in a way that is surprising, as if you were not able to predict, nor the time for taking appropriate and effective measures to strengthen public health satisfactorily and to satisfy your constitutional obligation towards the Greek people to safeguard their public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, my colleague. The floor now is given by the Special Rapporteur of Mera25, Mrs. Apatzides. Come on, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have repeatedly reiterated the standing position of Mera25 regarding the donations of private individuals to meet needs, which the Constitution has to cover. A state that depends on private donations for the performance of its constitutional duties is a weak state. A government that turns to private donors to fulfil its obligations is a weak government. This reality cannot be hidden behind the welcome works of the two donation contracts included in the current draft law of the Ministry of Health. More specifically, the draft law before us today we are called upon to vote in plenary concerns the ratification of two donations contracts in its first part and a number of other provisions of the Ministry of Health in the second part. Finally, the third part concerns the repealed provisions and the entry into force of this Agreement. The first part consists of a single article on penalties for two donation agreements, the Latsis Foundation and Mrs Latsis respectively. In particular, the first is the donation of the Joint Benefit Foundation "Yiannis Latsis" to restructure, renovate and upgrade the Emergency Department of the General Hospital of Athens "GEORGIOS GENNAMAS". The second is Ms Anna - Maria - Louise Latsis to rebuild a section of the existing building of the Hellenic Anticancer Society in Pylia, in order to relocate the Daily Hospital Unit of the Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki "TheAGENEI". Merra25's permanent position is that every donation to the state always and under specific conditions and conditions is clearly welcome, as is the need for each donation to be met. This position is firmly directed at us not to vote against in such cases, but also to a positive one. We are therefore geared to'residents' for the reasons I am going to make. Ladies and gentlemen, donations are useful in the public health system. After all, the ongoing ten-year economic pandemic of the memoranda, which preceded the COVID -19 pandemic, has led to weakening, abandoning and depreciating the ERC. In this context, donations can only be welcome, however, in this particular case, given the fact that the Emergency Department of the “General Ecstasy” Hospital has been in operation since 1960 and the multitude of cases it receives every day. Respectively, the Thessaloniki Anticancer Hospital is one of the four special anticancer hospitals in the country, with particularly increased needs for patients, which are estimated at sixty thousand annually. However, we must be concerned that the Greek State admits the acceptance of these donations for the inability to meet needs, which are a constitutional obligation and a mission. Anything due to the generosity of private donors cannot be counted as a success of the state and government. On the contrary. It must be understood as a confession of failure to fulfil its constitutional obligations. On this point the ideological obsession of the New Democracy is very clear. The pandemic of the coronary is used as an excuse and an excuse for further hugging with the private sector. In this context, the role of either the business demon or the generosity of the private donor is being worked. If the first part of the bill reveals the ideological priorities, purposes and obsessions of the Government, the second part shows its inability and inadequacy. The second part of the bill is distributed by the familiar pot of other provisions. Most of them concern issues of micro-regulation, prolongation and patches, which gives a crystallised picture of the instability and oligability with which the government faces the unprecedented state of the country in the midst of a pandemic crisis and of course reveals a total lack of plan and vision from the government for the National Health System. During the economic crisis of the last decade, Giannis Varoufakis frequently described the European Union's policy towards the existential debt problem as "expansion and falsification". What does that mean? A timely extension of the problem in the future rather than its resolution now and pretend that this does not really exist. Sadly, a similar political tactic is found in the management of the public health system in the midst of the coronary crisis, a health system kept alive by day-to-day first-line heroes, i.e. doctors and nurses. These heroes have overcome human resistance, struggling every day against pandemic with all their powers for almost a year. Their reward is just applause and fictional promises, a constant deterioration of their working conditions and a complete government indifference to the resolution of the public hospital. Instead of large, single and brave legislative initiatives, we are faced with a truly incredible number of legislation relating to micro-regulations and patches. And we are literally talking about hundreds of provisions in the pandemic year. This colegislative culture is the continuation of the logic of 'expansion and frustration', but by other means: extension in the form of prolongation of the death of public health and pretending that there is no problem. The Prime Minister was personally committed to building a new ERC. In words. Because in practice, what we see from the government of Mr Mitsotakis is the continuation and acceleration of the weakening of the state's prosperous and social character after ten years of monumental destruction, involving both the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the former PASOK. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the lesson we have learned in dealing with the pandemic? It is that we need a strong public health system, with more resources, better organisation and quality services to meet new needs. And what is the government's attitude? It is the gradual transformation of the ESS into an almost exclusive coronary system, resulting in a deterioration in the operation of surgery, cardiological units and external medical systems. We have pointed out for months the risk of a gradual transformation of the public health system into an almost exclusive system for combating COVID -19, but the government was deaf. The result of the government choices was to reduce the medical care of patients suffering from other causes and to exalt citizens for almost any other medical problem in the private sector. That is to say, citizens suffering from other diseases are gradually facing a dilemma: 'Do I pay or die?' Every day that passes, we lose people. Every day the sanitary people feel more and more left behind by the state. The situation in public hospitals has reached the unprecedented, because the government and the Prime Minister themselves have not kept their word. Mr Mitsotakis was committed not only to a new National Health System but also to more than a thousand vaccination centres. However, neither the new ESS nor the vaccination centres, which are constantly being prepared, have been seen. The Government is attempting to complete the vaccination plan at no cost. In the first wave of the pandemic we had reference hospitals that hospitalized new coronary cases. In the second wave in all major hospitals, clinically suspected cases and clinical management of the disease have been established. The hospitals are now undertaking and the vaccinations, which, in our view, hospitals should be prevented from vaccinating the general population, which should be entrusted to primary health care structures with the necessary recruitment of personnel. And, of course, it goes without saying that vaccination does not remedy the urgent need to strengthen the ERC. It is a major means of getting out of the pandemic, but it must work complementaryly - as the World Health Organisation has repeatedly pointed out - with other important measures, such as strengthening the public health system, which the government is ideologically extorted, the existence of an extensive universal primary care and the creation of a climate of mutual trust between a state, a scientific community and a citizen. We, as a PARTA25, have been talking for months about a network of mass testing centres that would be converted into vaccination centres and then the dowry of primary health care. Ladies and gentlemen, the coronary pandemic is accompanied by unprecedented crises. The extent, depth and consequences of this have not yet been fully understood. Health systems, economic structures and social cohesion are under enormous pressure. As a country we have a serious triple crisis, health, social and economic crisis. This bill, like the previous ones before it, unfortunately, do not constitute an integrated intervention to address the health aspect of this three-fold crisis that plagues the country, otherwise. If something reveals the predictions contained in this draft law, it is that the New Democracy Government, despite the tension and the duration of the pandemic crisis, has not succeeded in overcoming its ideas. He avoids to deal with the strengthening and immunization of the National Health System. It is not negligence, but it is an option to delay the necessary measures to strengthen the public health system with the necessary recruitment and to ensure the necessary logistical infrastructure. However, the National Health System needs reinforcement and funding, not charity. Of course, such a choice and attitude that focuses on private charity is not the exclusiveity of the New Democracy. She agrees with both SYRIZA and the Change Movement. On the opposite side of the memorial parties, we as PART25 claim that the state should not be dependent on private donors to fulfil its constitutional obligations. The public health system should be financed by the State budget and managed by permanent full-time personnel. The tragic deficiencies which exist both in health and in infrastructure are the subject of action which the Government of New Democracy had to prioritise over the past few months. The relaunch of the necro-liberal and indebted economy, which the government claims is possible without the restructuring of public debt, should be accompanied by the reconstruction of the public health system and the modernisation of its services. However, instead of a comprehensive strategy of exiting from this policy, health, economic and social crisis that agitates our country, what we are experiencing is almost criminal management of the pandemic, which leaves its victims behind in both health and economic sectors. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by pointing out the following: the Hellenic Republic must clearly accept every donation with gratitude and satisfaction. At the same time, however, it should be pointed out that it is criminal negligence that it has not already taken care of the needs of which it is a constitutional obligation. The constitutional duties of the state towards citizens cannot and must not be based on private donations. Public health needs to be strengthened and funded by the state. The recourse to private charity in exceptional or non-existent circumstances is not a solution. The aim must be a strong and better organised public health system with more resources and quality services in order to meet the new needs. The political ethos of Mera25 and the serious reasons I described in my speech do not allow us to vote in favour. As MERA25, we are voting'representations' in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u83	Thank you too, my colleague. And we are now passing on to the list of speakers and the first speaker is Mr Ljupi from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today and we are holding two donations with the Greek State. The first one from the Latsis Foundation relates to the renovation and upgrading of the GLP, the Emergency Department of the “Generally” Hospital. It is one of the largest hospitals in Attica with continuous operation for over sixty years. This is a major project of total expenditure of EUR 2 million. The project is scheduled to be completed within one year. Thanks to the work that will take place the hospital will acquire a new more spacious waiting room, a new patient selection area, exam areas and offices. The second donation aims to renovate the building of the Hellenic Anticancer Society, to transfer the Daily Hospital Unit of Thessaloniki. "Theatre" we all know it's a very large anticancer hospital, where about six thousand chemos take place per year. The daily care department is expected to serve about thirty-five thousand patients a year, thus creating a need for more available spaces. The construction, reconstruction and equipment of this site will cost 2 million euros and will be carried out thanks to the donation of Ms. Latsis. The other provisions of the bill regulate several matters of the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. The extra-homogeneous expenditure on generic medicinal products and medicinal products for which their period of protection has expired shall be excluded from the allocation of the refund amount from the overrun of the monthly pharmaceutical cost. By the end of 2021 the full discharge of the pharmaceutical expenditure for former beneficiaries of the CSCE is extended in accordance with the commitment of our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The use of the electronic pre-authorisation system for medicinal products not available in Greece, for high-cost medicines to cover the insured of all funds and not just the EEAS. The problem with long-term ECOFO procurement tenders is dealt with with with multi-annual contracts of over EUR 100,000. The board now. the EEAS may conditionally approve the redistribution of the contractual price per year, allowing the Agency to move faster and simpler procedures. Following the arrangements we have already introduced to improve the transplant system, there is now another intervention. A real and serious gap is covered. In the case of the emotional donor, there was no prediction of what would happen, if the transplant was incompatible with the recipient. Under the new provision, the institution may be assigned to another proposed recipient, while initially intended to be classified in the national register. Key changes are made to the functioning of the national recipient register. The criteria for inclusion in the national register shall be laid down by a decision of the Board. The EOM and the recommendation of a special scientific committee were to date determined by the Minister on the basis of a recommendation from the EOM. This change is aimed at continuously following new scientific data for the optimum functioning of the transplant system. Geographical or calendar information of transplant units shall be provided to allow a shorter time deviation between receiving the transplant and transplantation to the recipient. These arrangements along with the others in previous bills, with the increase of the beds of the ICUs, with the placement of regional transplant coordinators, help a great deal not to lose grafts and increase transplants. As is reasonable, the debate is almost unilateral with the issue of vaccines and the vaccination system. The Ministry's programme has so far been implemented accurately and consistently, adapted, of course, to the number of vaccines available to us, with care always being taken to ensure the second dose of all of us - as is not done in all the other states, even in Europe - and of course, with care that no dose is lost. Finally, a restoration of injustice and, at the same time, a movement of support for research staff is the provision that equates the HR members and doctors in terms of incomes obtained from research programmes. The limit of the remuneration of ERC doctors shall cease to take into account their remuneration by research programmes. Research in Greece is constantly delivering results thanks to the high-level scientific staff we have. Just a few days ago, we were informed of another success of a Greek research team. Our country was a pioneer in the examination of colchicin as a medicine that could have the effect of fighting the coronary. And indeed, the Greek clinical study "GRECCO -19" was the first published randomised study, which opened the way for further research at a global level. This is a huge success of Greek scientists, after Greek rapid tests and Greek monoclonal antibodies against the coron. It is the most tangible proof that, despite the great fleeing of scientists abroad, Greece still has excellent young scientists and it is researching a path towards Brain Gain. I am closing with the coronary again, Mr President, because a lot of them have heard from this party in the past few days. A medicine that cures viral infections does not exist. There are constant drugs that reduce the viral load, reduce the large inflammatory reaction, such as the coronary, or bind part of the viral load, as the monoclonal antibodies do. They may reduce the severity of illness, perhaps nursing, may reduce the introduction of ICUs, even mortality, but they do not prevent them. The only solution to the viruses was and remains the vaccine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u85	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Paulakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, today I am going to make a speech different from the others, and the reason is this. They are the data of the National Statistical Office with deaths per year in Greece. In recent years, from 2015 to 2019, deaths in our country for whatever reason were at a height of eighteen thousand to a hundred twenty - three - one hundred twenty - four thousand. A little over and down, but in that range it was. Last year, in 2020, deaths in the country from a hundred and twenty - four thousand, one of the highest in the past five years, reached thirty - five thousand four hundred seventy - two. It's ten thousand more. The five thousand are from the coronary, now we've exceeded five and a half thousand, but four and a half thousand were from the coronary. The other five thousand why did it happen? The other five thousand, unfortunately, have happened because our hospitals and the first phase of the pandemic, and in the second phase there have been monothematics and too many other health needs, needs for treatments, have not been or have been delayed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u87	Last year?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u88	Yes, I'm talking about 2020, Minister. It's obvious. If you talk to people in hospitals - you are speaking - you know very well how long they are taking surgery for malignancies, how long they are delaying some other treatments, how much more a world with all this terrorisation that exists is not directed to hospitals and that's why this recording is. Well, I disagree with the logic of dealing with pandemic, especially in the second phase, because we now have examples and experience of one year. We didn't know Flevari - no one knew - and that's why we backed you up. In the second phase, we are not putting you back, because you have made a mistake, a serious mistake, a scientific mistake, a political mistake, which is of course explained. Because we have now had examples of countries that have dealt with pandemic much better than we have in the first and second phases. You chose the treatment - not only you did it, but other countries did it and they were wrong - which said: 'Aman, the virus. To deal with him, we need a strong health system. We do not have the political choice to do so, many countries do not have the political option. So what do we do? Social distance, lockdown and vaccines and secondary tests which some countries have fought with this - and drugs. We have countries which, with an aggressive policy of tracing and isolating cases by mass tests in the population, seem to have ended. There are also mutations, etc. You bet - I told you another time - all the money on the vaccine issue, and we are now living in these ridiculous situations, for the Commissioner to come out and ask the companies to show good will to send vaccines. After they grabbed them with the contracts and tied their donkey, now they're playing us 'how much we'll get and where we'll send them'. Well, listen, people are dying now, though. I, in December - and in November - officially, this is where I came out and said that, children, the vaccine is a process that we could do today at 60% of our population - and the repeated dose - we would have results of immunity after two months. Until then what do we do? They're gonna die a hundred nobles a day? Now they're dying again. And I'm afraid it's not a third wave, but it's the second wave in southern Greece, where the cold is catching now. That's why this is happening in Athens and it's probably going to happen in the Peloponnese, etc., and see what we're going to do. What are we gonna play with? I'm a perception of wanting a powerful health system. I want after dealing with the pandemic to stay a dowry for the next generations, which is not now left with what you have done. Secondly, I would like to address an aggressive policy of virus detection and isolation, as you were told by a number of scientists from the Committee on Infectiouss - not all - by a letter you buried, which told you that this was what we had to do at the time when it seemed to be over, so that we could deal with the second wave and did not do so. Now you've bet all the money on the vaccine again. I said to you: children, there are a number of treatments." There are now treatments. We're not in the phase of February and March. The pathophysiology of the virus and the way it causes infection and severe infection has been analysed. Analyzed why some people go very hard and why others don't go. And we've got a lot of guns for various categories of patients. Why don't you use them? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I need two minutes, Madam President. I've been telling you all this time, "Get the antibodies" and it was like I was talking to the deaf door. Yesterday the German Minister for Health came out and said the same words that I used here in the House on 13 December, which said that we have the possibility of giving the antibodies to treatment, and so we are reducing - and this is evidenced by the phase III studies carried out by both companies and 'LILY' and 'REGENERON' - by 70% the possibility of the vulnerable population being seriously ill. We won't put the antibodies in the tomato salad. We're going to give it to that category of population that has the greatest chance of getting a severe illness. Because in the hundreds of patients who are hospitalized in the ICU, that is, they have a bad development of their disease, ninety - five - seven are from this group. He'll be directed to them. Another study comes out now that says that the administration of antibodies to structures, to nursing homes, etc. again reduces by 70% -80% the possibility of one of these patients being severely ill and therefore does not have the bad progression. There are other treatments that now come out. Here there is a delay and second thoughts from a part of the scientific community. Mr. Stefanade, since when do you know the results of colchikin? I'm not telling you this as dead, because your team was the one who first studied colchican internationally. Did you have the results from the beginning? Why did Mr. Chiodras and the others bury it? Why did they request another three months of extension for the second major study in Canada, published now and on the basis of it, entered the treatment protocol? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I know a lot of patients. Fortunately, many colleagues - because the news is spreading - gave it colchicin, which, with its anti-inflammatory action, blocks the systematic inflammatory response to a large proportion of patients. There are corresponding studies of ivermectin. It's not in the collicine phase yet, but there's that. Why don't we see that? There is the combination of varicitinib and remdecir for the severely ill. There is an excellent work done in the "Salvation" by Mr.Yamarelos and Mrs.Poulakos on the medicine Anakinra, which blocks interleukin 1b, which is the only path from which it moves to the inflammatory reaction. There's lizumab blocking the interleukin 6 pathway. Because, through some paths of transponders, this development is taking place in a percentage of patients. So, Minister, I've been saying this for a long time, but I'm barring the door deaf - to use all the means to save people's lives. Because I say it like that, and I say it with the full awareness of what I say. We had five and a half thousand deaths. A very large percentage of them died outside the ICU.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u89	But you have to close down, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u90	I do not have time to say what I have to say now, because it is fantastic to see what you are saying. Let's have used these treatments and not bet all the money on the vaccine that we're going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u91	You have to close down, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u92	Because with what you have announced, we will be inoculated by the end of March with one in the two - the first dose - or the three hundred if all the orders come. That's where he's coming out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u94	I'm done. We'd have saved the two and a half thousand of the five thousand deaths. And I don't throw it as an opposition like that. I've been very busy with the heavy suffering in my life. I am well aware of the enormous work that my colleague in Patras is doing with the High Flow devices. He wants a quick deal. Do you know what our difference is?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Comrade, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u96	I propose that. You, because at the back of your mind you don't want to stay after the pandemic and be the law of a powerful public health system, you did some things in the system and you bet all the money on the vaccine that companies now don't produce the required quantities. But while that happens, people will die.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Comrade, please. Why are you embarrassing me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u98	I'm closing up with another information. There are other scientific developments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u99	Does the cigarette protect us from the coronary?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u100	That is what I shall say, Mr Hatzidakis. There is a large study, which started in France.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u102	Will you allow me to say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u103	You could have said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u104	They haven't heard of the Step of the House before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u105	You're absolutely right, but I have to run too. It's been ten and a half minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u106	All right, Mrs. Sacorafa. You know, it's a series of things we talked about three months ago, some find out inside and some scientists yesterday. Meanwhile, we have mourned the dead.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u107	I have no doubt about what you are saying, Mr President, and that what you are saying is serious. But...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u108	Since they are not heard from the media, let them at least be heard from here. Yes, there is a large study in France, which has begun in nursing and medical staff, for the possible protection role of nicotine in the development of the systemic inflammatory response. Yeah, there's that. It's one of three paths. There's this. It'll work in four to five months. It is in the study of the three routes from which the virus triggers a severely inflammatory response to too many. We're waiting for the results.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u109	Let's go get a cigarette then!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u111	Madam President, I do not usually reply to colleagues. Once for the bills brought by the government and the Ministry of Health, but it is interesting, because Mr Paulakis has been a former Deputy Minister of Health for five and a half years, so it is a record of what the SYRIZA Government, Mr Xanthos, has done for the past five and a half years. But it has an interest. We should put things in a very brief order. I do not understand: are there two SYRIZA policies? One policy supports vaccination, which all international scientific bodies have, throughout the world, proposed and heard from my colleague from Magnesia, as the only real solution and the beginning of the end of the pandemic? All scientific communities, bodies, etc. They admit to this day that medicine offers healing for what it has to do with COVID -19 does not exist. Does everyone accept this, or does Mr. Paulakis have a different policy from the other part of SYRIZA, expressed through his sectoral, Mr. Xanthos, who supports vaccination? This is a matter and it needs to be clarified. The second issue. Let's go talk about the medications that have been in the international community and the literature all these months. If you remember, ladies and gentlemen, the first part of the pandemic was published by a French colleague, Professor, the part concerning chlorocin. Has the government speeded up, Minister, to bring five tons of the first substance from Egypt before flights to Greece are banned for free in order to produce this election medicine for everyone? The studies you refer to are experimental clinical studies, which are approved in accordance with the emergency and early access procedure, to see how and how they can affect and improve individual aggravating factors in COVID.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u112	The vaccine...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u113	I didn't interrupt you. So, if there is an over-inflammatory reaction to the lungs, is there any such medicine that can affect the degree of this reaction, so that it cannot produce such a serious effect and not a fellow citizen of ours at that level? Finally, it was shown that chloroquine did not have these required or anticipated therapeutic properties. We went further than that. There have been publications on other medicines. It's remdescivir. There was a great deal of talk about remdessir in Greece. I would remind you that in this committee, Minister, they are all the top colleagues, most horizontally, who are involved in infections, epidemiological data, etc., some of them I repeat the previous political leadership advisers and all of them are very well placed in them. Some have said that this will be the medicine that will give absolute solutions, etc. Other studies have shown that they are not at this level. It's an election medicine, of course, it helps, but that's as far as it goes. Let's go down. First of all, I find it difficult to believe that there are bad private companies and good companies, since they are the same companies carrying vaccines and medicines. So, Minister, it cannot be the bad guys, the blood vessels and those who suck the blood of peoples who bring the vaccines and the same companies that bring the drugs together. You have to decide. Either they're all bad or they're all good. We are talking about a legislative framework, control by the European Commission and regulation for all, for the benefit of the Greek patient, the European patient. Let's go down. Remdesib, therefore, finally, it proved that it did not have the action that the original studies were saying. Why? Because there is clinical stage I, clinical stage II, clinical stage III, and then the scientific community has come to say that a medicine can be an election medicine or not and indeed have its conclusions. By way of emergency, for reasons of overriding public interest and the signature of the doctor in exceptional circumstances, such as a pandemic, medicine was given by the world community. Let's go to the monoclonals. I've heard a lot of talk about the monoclonals. I respect the companies that import them. At the moment, however, Coreper, the European Pharmacopoeia Agency, has the dossier and will decide whether monoclonals can be imported for use by European countries or not. When he decides, we will also take our decision as Greek Government. I would remind you, however, Mr President, that there is a crisis in the FDA third-stage study on this medicine, which says it may not work. Some other studies say it looks like it works. The U.S. government assigns two hundred thousand units of the drug for eighty million people. If we take it proportionally, we should take two thousand pills. Have they been used? Oh, no. They took them and wait for Coreper's approval. So, Minister, he wants very much attention when someone tries to create impressions - and I am not saying that you are doing so - the way he is placed. I think that you have done so in good faith to me. You have called me and you have told me "heard, Minister, these can be election medicines". You do it publicly, too. But I say to you that I prefer that there should be the safety of the Greek patient above all, that there should be clinical studies, which should be thoroughly structured and then move on to everything else. You mentioned Mr. Stefanides. Mr. Professor and his team conducted an excellent study of colchicin. This study came in second year by others. We honor Greek scientists. The second study that has come has not yet been published. How do you know her results? I say again that the study you claim to be the one that led us to use colchicin as an election medicine has not yet been published. That's the reality. You can see, if you like, the way in which well-known Greek scientists and other bodies have been placed on the subject. But why did you choose, Minister, by the Committee on Emulsifiers - epidemiologists - to approve the use of this medicine? Be careful: With a specific prescription, for certain patients. It is contraindicated in renal patients, is contraindicated in specific antibiotics and is used with caution through the SPC, the Electronic Pre-authorisation System. How different is this, a reasoned and organized use with scientific criteria of a cheap drug, a medicine that has been used for other diseases for a long time and we will try it out from what you say? In fact, you also made a verbal and mental, if you like, exaggerated. You said that there would be two and a half thousand of the five thousand lost. First of all, what is the other country that has taken any other methodology or strategy from us and has better results? I saw all of Europe on the map, Minister, that it is red in all of Europe. It is at war right now with COVID and that Greece is at the best possible phase from all over Europe. Nevertheless, we have had the country in a partial lockdown for two and a half months in the interests of public health and human life. Very carefully our scientists are studying epidemiological evidence every day and if we need to intervene in Attica and anywhere, we will. I would therefore say, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a correlation between what you say here and what is out there in the Greek society. I see that intermodal and horizontally, the Greek society respects the effort made by doctors, nurses, other staff, the organised state, the government, the officials, the hospital governors and it contributes to this. And while some of our North European friends were telling us that we are 'negatives' - in introductory terms the word - and those who act with common sense and measure and move forward, I see that the European societies of the North find it difficult to adapt to the measures of pandemic and to collaps with their governments. A bad loser becomes right and left. Aw, riots. They burn up vaccination centres in the Netherlands, problems in other major countries. Some people have passed hundreds of thousands of dead. We have a thousand five hundred dead a day in large north European countries. Our fellow citizens here are fine. We're all on our way together. I reject what I have heard about the class perspective of dealing with pandemic. Mercy! This is done with the contribution of a significant piece of Officerial Response and the rest of the parties. There are our colleagues in Parliament who contribute to this. They help to get across together as a society this huge pandemic. If some of you want, even good faith, to create impressions about another way of dealing with them, they should come to speak with what country he has dealt with the pandemic in a better way, taking what initiatives and how they have come up with. Madam President, I'm sorry I'm late. I'll finish the tests. The country, when the pandemic began, was able to do five hundred, six hundred, seven hundred tests a day. We have arrived to be able to do thirty - five thousand diagnostic tests and this number is growing permanently. At first, if you remember, Mr Colleague, you told us why we are not taking tests of a particular country of origin, which are cheap, etc. It came to be shown that these tests destroyed Spain that took them and reached COVID to God. People are mourning. And the NHS in England was destroyed also by these tests. So the Committee on the Infectious - Epidemiologists has set high standards for the tests that we have received and which have led us to well-measurable results. We were the first European country to bring the rapid test with WHO standards: Recognition and sensitivity over 90% -95%. We used them in Moria - in the crisis that emerged - and then across Greece. Let's go see if we could test the whole world, as you say, and prescribe it and give other results. The Czech Republic did it if I'm not mistaken. He once managed to do it. Then he did it fine. Then, if you remember, the second wave collapsed. He never tried like this again. Our English friends did it, too. They said that because thirteen thousand of their fellow citizens a day are tested, they will reach it in 100 thousand tests a day. They did, if you remember, for one day a hundred thousand tests and then the number collapsed and they had backlog for fifteen days, of Christmas, if you remember. Their NHS was telling them there's no test option for two weeks. Imagine here in Greece what you would say if for two weeks we did not test our fellow citizens for COVID! I conclude by apologising for getting enough of your time. From now on, I would ask you very much, because of the current state of affairs, with possible rallying and, in general, from now on, as we will be doing, emphasizing and confronting COVID: Seriousness, self-content, solidarity and feeling that we can all do much better than we can together. I have said so from the outset, we will continue to support it as a Greek state. All together, obviously, we can do much better. Proved that. The Greek society is with us in this effort. The important thing above all is to save human lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, too, Minister. The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, Mr Claus Gregoriadis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u115	Do you allow on-call?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u116	I think he didn't say anything on personal grounds. Answer what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u117	Yeah, but Mr. Stefanides said some things and he needs to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u118	Okay. But we cannot open up such a debate. Your parliamentary representative will tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u119	Mr Stefanades will answer whether the study has been published.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u120	Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, the speaker has come to the forefront.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u121	I have the floor, I guess. Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, starting with my speech, I would like to wish for a rapid recovery to Mr Kyritsopoulos, who is an officer of the Parliament's Guard, who was diagnosed a few days ago positive to COVID -19. I also want to wish the Chief of Officer's Response will make his son well. I want to wish you, too, Minister, to enjoy the child you have just acquired. There is no doubt about anyone, I imagine, in this world regarding morality that charity is generally a good thing. There is no doubt that tip is a good thing too. Even charity is a good thing. But be careful. For who? For their own body. For the man who is a philanthropist, for the man who is merciful, for the man who is a philanthropist. When we talk about a state - let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen - which in its Constitution, in particular in Article 21, guarantees and imposes the responsibility of the State for public health care, and when we here, in the last eighteen months that New Democracy has come to pass, we have voted and I cannot remember how many charity contracts, then I think - logically - that there is a very serious gap. In short, we say in Mera25, ladies and gentlemen, that the state does not do its job properly, that it is inactive. You cannot - unfortunately for you - tell us, in Mera25, in the Greek Solution, in the Communist Party of Greece: 'You made it worse', because, as you know very well, we did not have the opportunity to govern. So you know that I'm telling you this not to take our tail off, but to tell you that the Greek people who listens to us on television or where they might leave him ice creamly indifferent to how wrong or distorted the previous or the previous government did things. You've been running for almost two years and looking at how you're doing. And you're doing it in the pandemic sector - I'm sorry to say it this way raw - very bad, except for the first quarter that you've done quite well. You had aid, you had the neighboring Italy lose 200 people a day in February last year, and you have therefore reasonably closed earlier than the rest of Europe. And we congratulate you so far. In the same way, we directly accuse you of all these relics that seem like, ladies and gentlemen, to have no end anymore. I do not really know - I look into the eyes of you all, the ministers, the MPs - what to remember first. I really don't know what to first remember. At the time when it did not fit in the factories, where people worked together with each other and in the public transport that took them to factories or other jobs, at that time when they did not fit in the ships of shipowners, who did not fit in the world aircraft, at the same time only five or fifteen or thirty - fifteen years olds who were on a square because they could not withstand the closure. And to tell you something, Minister, what you said is true. He almost burned Amsterdam. But there is also a different reading of the incident than the one you do. Look, we as a society have tolerated everything and we are proud of it all, and you and us all together. It seems that the rest of Europe, Northern Europe, which is remarkably ahead of us in many areas, is not so tolerant of democracy. They just went to close our Dutch friends in their homes. Nothing else did, what we have been doing for a year, with breaks, which you supposedly open to us to relive tourism that is never alive again, supposedly to relive the retail trade, which is not alive at all. With these breaks, we're closed. As soon as they went to the Netherlands, it was burned in Amsterdam. There is therefore this reading of who is right and who is wrong. You know, there are people who don't play with their democratic rights. They say, "Let me tell you something, you won't shut me up at home. Find a way to do me well, but you're not gonna shut me down at home. We're not in jail." And I now come to join with what I say with another topic: When will you stop being covered as a political leadership of this country - and I mean in particular the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, and secondly his Minister or his State Secretary - behind a health committee of infectious and epidemiologists? These people are experts, we respect them, I imagine, everyone here without any doubt, and we hear what they say. But let it not be laughed and let it not be deceived, but the people who listen to us. Political decisions are not taken by Mr Tsiodras, because Mr Tsiodras is not heretic, he is not elected by the Greek people to make political decisions. Mr. Chiodras and all these very important scientists are recommending. And it's impossible - I inform you in advance - to convince me that suddenly they were itchy at Christmas and they couldn't sleep because they wanted to save and well open the retail trade. People understand that if we die more than famine, so that after ten years of intergroup memoirs, it will be as bad as dying of the coroner. In no case, however, I imagine they didn't spend their Christmas and holidays with the terrible agony if they'll reopen the retail trade. I believe that their scientific opinion would certainly be the best for the control of the pandemic not to reopen the retail trade. In what way did the retail trade open, another republican? With billions of Greeks - it's obviously a figure, we're all ten million - conspiring on the Hermos Street. If you believe that the revenues that have come these three days from Ermos Street can be compared to the costs that will be created in our National Health System, I will inform you again in advance that you fall out. Stop - especially the Prime Minister - for God's sake, cover behind a health committee! It has no political responsibility, does not make political decisions. It suggests and we are in a position to know that you are repeatedly ignoring it. As a Member referred earlier to our appeal to the Council of State for the unconstitutionality of proclamation of concentrations of illegality, I should therefore like to tell you that the Council of State was forced to give us part of the practices of the Committee of Infectious Substances and we have learned that this committee has never said that concentrations are particularly dangerous for the spread of the disease. We know it out of the record. The Committee on Infectious Substances is not mentioned anywhere at any concentration. And I'm doing a nice bridge to talk to you about today's gathering, which will start here within a few minutes. This is our great youth. They are our scientists tomorrow. It's about the cream of our youth. These are the people who have appealed to take it further, to be cultivated to learn, to become scientists and researchers. This is the most golden part of our society in other words. You know, instead of slandering them and saying that they play with the health of the Greek people, what should you do? What you didn't do yesterday. The government should sit down and discuss with them. You know - I'm sorry to say this - but it's terrible what the Ministry of Education did yesterday. He told the people who had gone to talk before it was done, that he can't see them because he has an emergency teleconferencing conference that will end at two o'clock and so until then he can't see them and then he'll close from about what I understand. He invited them to go to talk today. That's not an invitation. That's a deception. He tried to cancel a concentration that way. So you should listen to them. And you should listen to them, because if you listened to them, you would have heard what they want. Do you know what their first issue is? To open up again - to listen to this - their schools, continue to form. That's their number one request. And their number two requests do you know what they are? Of course, the provision on university police should be withdrawn. I'm not commenting on you. Listen to it, the ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, listen to yourself. Most, if not all, you've finished one and two and three universities, you've done postgraduate and doctoral. You are extremely, highly cultivated people. So how does the 'university police' sound to you? It doesn't seem to you that it's an acid-shaped shape on its own. I'm talking to cultivated people. And all of a sudden a letter from all the butterflies yesterday what does it say? It says very simply the proposal that a year ago, when your first concern was to abolish university asylum, Mr Varoufakis made that these agencies should protect themselves with groups of people who will certainly not arm themselves and who have earned respect for students and all the people involved with the university, as they will come from their inner ears. When you put a platoon of the MATs or a platoon of other police officers into the universities, you'll actually light the fuse that will bring the disaster. So you don’t listen to them, you don’t talk to them. And for their other demands they are absolutely right, such as the eternal student. It is, of course, part of the concept of the academic community that people should be shaped and cultivated in their own way. It is only very democratic that you say "in three years you will learn, because if you do not learn you will have no chance to learn". And I get back with a little bridge - you won't even get away with it this time - on something else. We are, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the Symposium, now - and I look at you all with appreciation for real - months, two, three months after the celebration of the Polytechnic Anniversary and after the anniversary of the masculine and terrible murder of Alexandros Gregopoulou, a young child who was still in high school, I recall, by the Greek police, not all Greek police, from a very thickly disturbed husband, who should not serve in the Greek Police if there were psychometric tests. So we have the experience now, let me say, of all these gatherings that have been devastated, and of course the famous ruling on the Golden Dawn trial. Then you, Mr Plearis, and other colleagues too, Mr Georgiadis, told us that it was about the virus, because we dared to go and say that we want this serial criminal organization to be condemned. It turns out that both of us and the cops you've sent us to check us out, we're not stuck. It turned out itself on November 17th. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I will finish when the time comes, Madam President. The Communist Party took all health measures. Although your Government has broken it down, as it has made the MATs hit the Communist Party and forced it to collide violently, despite the fact that this has taken place, cases have still not increased from anywhere. In short, and in order not to flatter myself on this issue, it is in no way apparent from any of the elements that we now have that the concentrations contribute to the spread of the pandemic. There's no evidence of this from anywhere. So the king is naked. Your argument begins to become comicotragic and even more comicotragic is to dare come here and say it's an opening, that so far only nine people have been. I'm sorry, Mr. Plori, was that nine people you beat? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. On the anniversary of Alexander Gregopoulou's murder, how many were there? They were nine people? We know very well that all the concentrations that have become over the last two months have more than a hundred people. So let's not make fun of ourselves in here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will finish soon, Madam President. The disastrous combination, ladies and gentlemen of the Complex, ten years of terrible monuments, eleven now, of austerity that these memorials have brought along with your neoliberal political ideology to shrink the state has the effect of conserving public hospitals and public health with charity from donations. As long as the thing moves like this, Greece will not enter any normality. I will say one more thing and that will be done, Madam President. One of the most experienced parliamentary people here is, of course, Mr Kaklamanis, the old President and current Vice-President of the House and a very important member of your resignation. I was surprised that by opening the procedure today he said: 'What about Europe? What is this Europe? Where's Ziskar D'Estain? Where's Cirak? Where's Willie Brad? Where are all these people?" And I answer him directly. I'm sorry, I'm answering you. Now do you understand? We've been telling you for 12 years. What has ever existed as the European Union, a European Union that was a union that cares about its members, has gone unreturned if you did not understand it. Do you know what this European Union is doing? It does not distinguish Greek nationals. It does not distinguish southern dirt or pedals or patriots. It doesn't tell anything. It is treated with the same barbarism to the German nationals, with the same barbarism. He doesn't take vaccines, lets them die like a dog, whether they're Dutch or French. The government, supposed to be in charge of the European Union, is being forced to circumvent the procedure and to take its own vaccines. This Europe is not just a Europe that will let us die endlessly from a coronary of all of us and you and the rich and poor of Europe, it is instead a Europe that, with these practices, is rapidly increasing the rapid rise of neo-fascism across our continent, as it has been treating inhumane economics for ten years to all its poor peoples and as it has been inhumanly conceived to all its peoples health at the moment with vaccines doing incredible things. It punishes, for example, the United Kingdom for Brexit, not ordering from the only company that was in a timely position to deliver vaccines, and that is why they have done over seven million in the United Kingdom, it is doing unrealistic things. This Europe is turning with rose petals the way of the scavengered neo-fascism that is coming to eat us. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy Members, you will be historically accountable if you continue to do so, if you continue to pretend that it is a good big sister Europe, and you do not see that the time has come - it has passed, but you can still catch up - the one-sided veto of the claim. Remember what happened with the Eurobond. The Prime Minister once asked you for a Eurobond. He put the tail in his arms in twenty-four hours and said: 'Touch evil, to spend it with the Eurobond, we will get loans'. The loans we receive are for payment are added to our national debt. The ratio of debt to our Gross National Product is now unthinkable. They're gonna need a lot of Greeks to see him. You should sometime discover the danger of our continent's total perfume from neo-fascism and later sit down and think about whether you have played an accomplice to it even in your absentia. Don't let the lawlessness, the unconstitutionality crumble. Don't let anyone who protests. Do not ban legal concentrations of people. The Greek people are working very well, but don't step on him anymore. And, above all, stop colluding with the students. You're going to be beaten by law. Everyone's been defeated. You know why. Because these deserted students are the most capable and brightest part of our society, but mostly because they are your children. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u122	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Mandash from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we must publicly thank the Joint Benefit Foundation "Joannis Latsis" and Ms. Latsis for giving this presence when the country needs their help and help upgrade the health services provided both at the Georgios Gennimatas Hospital in Athens and at the "Theamenios" in Thessaloniki. Allow me on this occasion to thank publicly all the Greek donors who have stood by the needs of our country in recent months. In particular, let me publicly thank the company "KARLIA S.A.", a model company in our country that has the special honor and luck to be based in my place, Messinia, which wants to contribute to the national, extremely difficult effort to deal with the disease has decided to donate to the Ministry of Health 50 ultramodern intensive care units. But I would like to stand by the attitude of counter-population. This bill should reasonably not become a field of political exploitation and confrontation, because it concerns the ratification of donation contracts, but also contains absolutely necessary government regulations to deal with the pandemic. However, once again with responsibility exclusively for Officer Responsibility, the climate is escalating for no reason. And what we did not hear from SYRIZA, who is constantly fishing in blur waters and continues to try to make opposition in the middle of a pandemic both in the last few days in the committee and today by speakers. You are asking, ladies and gentlemen, to constantly learn about the number of free tests carried out in the country, implying that there are few and that there is a strategy behind it, while you know very well that there is no shortage of tests and that thousands of free checks are carried out in several places in many cities throughout the country. You ask the government to prefer limited traceability of cases that go hand in hand with the closure of the economy. And I wonder if you're really saying that seriously? Do you have the anxiety of the private economy as a party and a party? You who cynically confessed to targeting and targeting and destroying the middle-class and private economy, are you now coming to tell us that we are making policies against entrepreneurship and the private economy in the country? Is there a person who can believe this thing? The government has been supporting the economy and work in many ways, in many ways, with many benefits within the framework of its budgetary margin since the beginning of the pandemic and plans other programmes. Already relevant legislation has been submitted for the next period. You are constantly asking to know the exact number of intensive care units in the country when you know very well that they have more than doubled than you left, but especially you know very well that in this unprecedented health crisis we have experienced there has been no fellow citizen in the whole country who has to be hospitalized in an intensive care unit and not to have a home to accommodate him. You keep asking about the exact number of recruitments, and you know that too. You are well aware that the number of recruitments to the National Health System has reached about ten thousand and wherever necessary others will be made. You say that the vaccine should be public good free of profit. Obviously the vaccine against the coronary exceeds the usual cost-benefit logic and therefore the government has made sure that it is available free of charge to all Greeks. Any problems and delays are clearly due to the enormous demand that exists and to the limited potential of pharmaceutical companies. This is obviously a European problem. It is a question that needs to be resolved at European level, and that is where I believe there will be appropriate solutions. You claim that patents should be broken to make the vaccine accessible to everyone. But the truth is that even if the patent broke, no one would be able to produce vaccines in the next few months. The people of the pharmaceutical industry have clearly said that there are no such possibilities as there are no raw materials needed for massive vaccine production in 2021. You call on the European Commission to reject the Prime Minister's proposal on the certificate of vaccination, and the reality is that not only has it not been rejected, but the certificate of vaccination, as the Prime Minister described, will significantly facilitate the opening up of the tourist economy, which is crucial for Greece, and so I hope it will be implemented. The proposal was not rejected, but on the contrary there were many countries which saw it positive. In any case, we are still at the beginning of the vaccinations and we have a long way to go. Your criticism has not stopped on pandemic issues. You are accusing us today that the government is trying to impose an agenda to reduce the rights of citizens. Now take note of the absolute irrationality you have come to! When the government opens the economy, SYRIZA shouts about increasing cases. When the Government restricts economic activity to protect public health, SYRIZA cries to reduce rights. A little serious! The pandemic's still here. The problems are great, and we still have a significant course ahead of us. And within everything, you disperse false news that it is allegedly inappropriate to ban protests, while all Greeks know that this is not a new ban, but to relax the previous decision that was not allowed to meet more than nine people. Ladies and gentlemen, society and the government are fighting an unprecedented battle against pandemic. Everyone agrees that given the conditions we've done quite well so far. The big bet is now on the success of the vaccination programme, but in this area too, the government has shown that there has been intensive and comprehensive preparation in order to ensure that the doses are not lost and that there is good state coordination. We must continue with seriousness and sobriety until we regain our lives, leaving our pandemic behind and finally united in at least one goal. So far, we knew that the coronary necropses developed conspiracy theories. Today we heard theories of conspiracy from people who believe in the coronary, but in order to create a political account, they turn against their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Stefanade has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin my speech unorthodoxly. Mr. Paulakis made a few comments on medicine and medicine. Mr. Paulakis, in addition to an experienced politician, is also an up-to-date doctor, but he needs to know that a study, however positive it may be, into clinical practice, needs cross-checking and confirmation in the community. Indeed, for the first time, the Greek research team published worldwide that colchicin assists significant patients with CIVID -19, hospitals, hospitals. The study was published last summer, but this was certainly not a suitable starting point for the committee - with the responsibility it needs and discernment - and the Ministry will therefore give immediate approval. There is a large Canadian study which makes an announcement of very positive results for extra-medical patients. Of course, yesterday there was also the pre-publishment, confirming these very positive findings of the study. The Greek committee, with its competence and responsibility, immediately convened, approved the medicine and, of course, proceeded with the mandate to prescribe it. That's the way it is. As far as the other drugs are concerned, there will at last be a medicine that will at last relieve, curb, cure, if you want it from the coronary, from COVID -19, but they have given a few positive results, but they have failed. For example, the Minister spoke about chloroquin. He has speeded up the ministry - and he has rightly made - to promote the introduction of a large quantity. It doesn't seem like he's doing anything. This is what the studies showed and history froze. I mean, that doesn't mean there's a delay. Instead, there are fast reflexes, as happened with colchikin, which Greece was the first to approve and followed by Cyprus. The FDA file has been filed to obtain approval in America, perhaps in other countries. That's the reality. And when I talk about drug failure, I'm talking about a lot. The Minister analysed them in depth, who knows the subject as a doctor and as a leading politician. There were attempts, beyond chloroquine, with plasma. There was a well-being, an enthusiasm at first, and it was granted. Announcement came out the day before, from a very serious English study, that it does not seem to offer. I mean, science is something rolling and knowledge comes, passes, confirmed. In conclusion, I should like to say that - I am referring to Mr Polakis - the committee has acted quickly and I think the Ministry has responded immediately. Today's bill, of course, ladies and gentlemen, has a strong social character and follows the personal commitments of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The first part mentions the important donation of the Latsis Foundation to the "Genevas" and the Hellenic Anticancer Society to the "Theatrical Foundation" respectively. It is an important move of benefit to upgrade the structures of Greece. "Nexts" we know it's a central major historical hospital. Since 1960 it has been a key hospital for hospitality, for the health of the Greeks, the old regulator and still is. Of course there are structural and operational needs and I think this donation covers many of them. At the Thessaloniki Anticancer Hospital on the other hand, of the sixty thousand coming patients, forty - five thousand need chemotherapy. This can be done on the basis of daily hospitalisation, and here's the donation, this generous donation, I think, will cover this very much. In the second part there are too many interesting and important regulations aimed at improving malfunctions involving administrative, institutions, needs and wage inequalities. For example, until the end of the year 2021 the full exemption from participation in the Pharmaceutical Expenditure of the ESS provides for the needs of the ERCF with ancillary staff, extends the electronic prescribing system and other very positive articles contained in the draft law. It also provides for the movement, although there were reactions from opposition parties, specialising in vaccination centres to meet needs. Let me point out here that the resident is a doctor. He is neither a nurse nor an assistant staff and can be reliably and responsibly covered in this matter. As far as vaccination is concerned, there is indeed a huge unprecedented attempt to vacate a population of billions in a short time. Greece is at the forefront of this. We see that geometrically the numbers go up over two hundred thousand. We believe that in the next three months, if the supplies allow, we will reach rates which may make the receptive wall an immunity, so that there can be the so-called 'immunion of the herd'. Of course, it is up to the citizens here to support this effort and to close their ears in voices, conspiracies or vaccine-negatives. The vaccines have, for the past two hundred years, saved millions of human lives. I will say something about the health system in general. We have a good health system that covers the Greeks. However, we must bear in mind that in the remote parts of our country, in the country's ferries, in the eastern Aegean, there is a problem. I'll get an example. A person who suffers from an acute myocardial infarction is not receiving the hospitalisation that would happen if he were in Athens or who would happen to the citizen who is lucky to be near the "Hupil" or "Evangelism". I am referring to acute myocardial infarction, because it is a condition that needs a rapid response. Atrocious workshops, Minister, I think you have already decided to create specifically in Samos and in the other islands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I wanted to finish by saying that the government's legislative work in general is important. I will say something that our great poet, Elytis, has written, needs us a legislation that shapes us, like the skin on us, at the time we grow up, so that he can overcome the man without oppressing him. The skin, I mean. One last word. I heard from a chosen colleague of the counterpopulation, Mera25, I think, "the king is naked." I believe, with reference to the government and the Ministry, that the King, not only is he not naked, he is dressed, he is thought to be. And not only that, it also offers society a shield for every disease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Skourletis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Madam President. There is no doubt that, ladies and gentlemen, the great event of the last 24 hours is the debate on access to the patent, it is the Council of Europe's decision, but also the controversy that exists between companies, Europe, the states, which are struggling with the agony of the world, not only in our country, but at a global level. Because this debate highlights the limits to the functioning of the market when it comes to the crucial issue of human life. In this sense, yesterday's decision is very important, because it comes, precisely, to give a signal to insurmountable neoliberalism, which wants to subject everything to the functioning of the market. This proposal was the European Left' s proposal, as you know. It was a proposal tabled by Alexis Tsipras on 8 January at his meeting with the President of the Republic. It was the same proposal that, on the 12th day of the month, a few days after it was publicly filed in our country, Kyriakos Mitsotakis mocked in an interview with "AND1". After all, he told us here in the House, which in a climate of jokes he said: 'What do you want? Administer “PFIZER”.’; The answer was given by those who, although they may also be relatives to some extent in your views, are aware of the great struggles and are not people who simply serve a rigid neoliberal plan, as it appears you are doing throughout the pandemic, not just on the basis of the issues of the vaccine. And what you didn't tell us. That 'Greek cannot be produced', as this proposal only concerned Greek industries, and it was not a proposal that the nineteen European industries that can prove themselves to produce - and produce - vaccines. In this respect, you have, on the other hand, found yourself in the interests of the few, those who put the profits above life. It is therefore a public good for the vaccine and it must all be accessible to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the vaccination, you have cultivated high expectations. I do not know if your forecasts, your targets, for over two million vaccinated people by the end of March, still apply. Are you going to tell me, are you responsible? No, you don't have a responsibility. But you have the responsibility to be honest, not to undermine the credibility of a government that must be systematic, so that it can send the corresponding message to the Greek people to deal with the pandemic. You cannot be photographed with shirts or without shirts, give them all to communication and, in fact, leave people to lie. And now? What's going on? Now you will ask, by beating your eyes, for ‘I'm sorry’ from your SYRIZA, why did you not support this proposal for access to the patent? Even now, will you draw the necessary conclusions? Will you understand that there is no reliable public health system if it is not based on corresponding public expenditure if not all of them have access to it? Welcoming donations, but we must start this debate by saying that they can in addition operate in a public health system. Because what they donate us, you know, they need people to work on them, they don't work on their own. They need recruitment, which you even refuse to do now. Refugee to adopt a holistic plan of more permanent recruitments, not just for the pandemic period. You're trying to get away from reality. It's not a small parentheses. That's what you said about SYRIZA, and it's been four and a half years. So pandemic is not a small parentheses. So we must draw our conclusions as societies, as a modern world. Confused. I saw you this morning when I told you that, in the end, what you are showing greater concern is, not having access to the vaccine patent. You seem to have a familiarity with having access to anti-democratic practices, such as that in the seven-year period, which was anticipated by the student security and, as Mr Syrians said, police departments within the universities. Why are you bothering me? Is this not a profound anti-democratic practice? Isn't it hypocritical to tell us you care about the pandemic? What did you do about buses, about the media? From March to now, what have you done for the media? What's the new clue?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u128	Transport!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u129	That's right. Transport. My colleague, Mr. Paulakis, corrected me. You know, Paul, we've got a lot to count on for the media. What did you do about the schools? What's the new clue? They open or don't open schools. This is now the high school and high school dilemma. Did you even find a new room? So, what's going on? It sticks to a hundred and fifty in the buses, doesn't it? In the halls of twenty-five and twenty-seven and thirty-seven students in the few squares over there, don't you mind? You have not understood anything that has been done in the same as unconscious, unrelenting way you continue to deal with the issues of pandemic. It's evidence of the story of the nursing homes. We have tabled a timely question. We told you that the vulnerable world of the elderly is really homeless. The result was yesterday with what happened at a nursing home in Maroussi. And you told us now that the problem is that the elderly are not allowed to be vaccinated. But is that a convincing answer? We are therefore not in March, but at the beginning of next year. Mutants are a big problem. It seems that you are going to organise the vaccination system in such a way that you still do not want to give up on the public health system something that it will take next day. You are unable to organise a decentralised vaccination system. We are missing now, according to complaints from respective clubs dealing with this issue, helmets. We have a problem with the haematopoietics, which we're sending them to carry out vaccines. We take doctors from the regional hospitals and from the TOMY and send them to the hospitals that are currently in the front line. This is because there is a refusal to have a systematic recruitment plan. As far as the priority is concerned, they are made in the logic of contractors, that is to say, a certain amount of time. It is no coincidence, then, that it is no longer wrong anymore, that you are obsessive, that you are 'allergers' to anything that can be termed public good, because you remain committed to the concept of public and private partnership. And you are coming at the moment and instead of making it a priority that there should be a mental unity between the rulers and the people, and that is guaranteed through a genuine dialogue, through initiatives and measures that do not divide the world, you are putting a systematic anti-social plan forward. What's that? The bill on universities first of all, which sends twenty-thirty-thirty-three thousand candidates outside of higher education, beyond the issues of police rule. Ultimately, this ability of you to be very, very close to the issues of repression, why can't you show it on other issues? In order to participate - it says - in the demonstrations, it should enter the "TAXIS" codes. That's where you've arrived. Universities want to establish a system that will have cameras and record any move to record all e-mails, conferences and talks within universities. What's it after all? Guantanamo and Korydalus are the universities? Is that what you're thinking? And do you think that this world, in fact terrified of the present danger of pandemic, will sit at home and will not come out and hold you to what is being tried by democracy itself? This blackmail will not pass, nor will it be for the workers who are currently preparing to introduce unpaid overtime, and it will not go against those pensioners who are rapidly going to privatise the supplementary pension system. It will not go to the Greek people, where you are attempting in these conditions of economic collapse, to proceed with your programme for the privatisation of the natural monopolies' energy networks. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government and Minister, I think that if you want to show a different sample of writing, you should accept two very critical emblematics, I would say, on two points - in fact I shall refer to two points - which have been tabled by SYRIZA, which concerns workers in the messengers, distributors and those who work in packaging centres relating to electronic commerce. Electronic commerce is not just an emergency solution, and delivery under these conditions has come to stay. So these workers are being tested right now. There is a need for them to be subject to the regime of heavy and unhealthy. You haven't done it for the sanitary. Along with the health workers, then, you should see these categories of workers. It is the least we have to do with these people who are being tested, are at the forefront and obviously have to be treated differently. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying, as I said at the outset, that the history of the pandemic cannot be an opportunity so that, as it is attempted on your part, a climate of fear and non-claiming from the world can be established. If you bet on it, you'll be in a hurry. Instead, choose the path of understanding, choose the self-criticism for what you have done as a mistake, will ultimately be for your benefit and all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Pappas has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the evolution of the first wave of pandemic was judged by natural factors, such as population movements and the readiness of each of the people to respond to travel restrictions. And that's where we did very well. In the second wave, however, the government's response to the needs of the pandemic was judged, and that is where we ran. That's where we're going for a championship. He gave me a negative impression. In fact, I personally had huge questions about the effectiveness of medicines. But what Mr Stefanidis said, I honestly did not understand. You studied Mr Stefanade in the spring, which showed that this medicine has results. Do we understand? And you said this from this step forward that this was not enough, but we were expecting another study by the Canadians. I don't get it. So, what do Greek researchers have?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u132	Are you a pharmacist?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u133	No, I'm not a pharmacist, but Mr. Stefanades is the doctor in charge...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u134	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u135	Smart ones, not me! So I say that Mr. Stefanades, your own MP, was responsible...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u136	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u137	Do not revolt, Mr. Kikilia, be serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u138	You should address the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u139	We're talking to the world, and I'm saying they're being born in question. Why are you uprising?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u140	(Minister for Health): To address this House, Madam President, not to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u141	Are you upset, Mr. Kikilia? Don't interrupt me. If you interrupt me, I will address you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Comrade, wait a minute. Minister, it can be addressed to you and, if you want, then you can answer what it says. Go on, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u143	Madam President, I also apologise to this House, because it has interrupted me, I do not know, but one of what I said has disturbed him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u144	I'll never interrupt you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u145	Well, that's a good start not to interrupt me again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u146	Continue, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Madam President. I repeat that Mr Stefanadis told us that he was doing a study of colchicin and now leave the arguments that some among us are against vaccination. We've battled. First, Mr. Tsipras was vaccinated. We are fighting internationally for patents. More than you are with the vaccination. But are we talking about other solutions? So, what's happened? Was there a Greek study that said that a particular drug could have a positive effect and we expected a study from another country to move on? It is obvious that political decisions have been made. That's what Mr. Stefanidis said. I don't know, Mr. Stefanade, if you want to withdraw, repack, I have listened very carefully. And your statements in the previous days and the time you did the study, that's where they plead. We come here to discuss two sanctions for contracts and you do not miss the opportunity to show us how deliberately inactive you are to strengthen the public health system. They're good, welcome to donations, find the literature of health finances from studies that say they're not enough, let alone when we're in a pandemic situation. So that's what we're counting on you. And, of course, we are also counting on a propaganda which is absolutely incomprehensible with reality. Whole presentations we have seen, the power point ready and the presentations from private companies that we will have a thousand eighteen vaccination centres and that we will inoculate two million fellow citizens in about forty-five days. None of this happened. Our hospitals have become vaccination centres, primary care is not strengthened, and now you are bringing Article 33 to move doctors from hospitals who have been exhausted in primary structures. That's what you're doing. We had developments in the Council of Europe. It's none of your business? Will you do something? Will you do something or will you sit on your eggs? Will you sit on your eggs and enjoy your political crash? In addition to the Tsipras proposal, the Council of Europe also discussed the Mitsotakis proposal on the vaccine - passport and rejected by a huge majority. It was also rejected by members of the Council of Europe who are on the People's Party. You've lost, I think, every chance you can convince and you're left with the tsubukas. The persuasion is over and the "so I like". You've taken a long way. And you know, when the financial hardship comes and is time-conceived with the genuine outbursts of youth, which you think you can starve her into measures that some perverted mind actually imagined, evolution can be a political earthquake. In fact, I have a huge question on my part, because you have been curious about what our Parliamentary representative told you at the beginning of the debate. Is it the first time your mission refers to policies implemented by dictatorships? Do you forget that the term "insurance Pinochet" was introduced by you in the public debate? Your executive said that the reform you want to do in insurance is 'Pinochet insurance'. Another of your operatives here said "Let's not give Metaxas to Golden Dawn". And yesterday we had another one, who plays it liberal, saying that in 1969 he had police stations inside the universities. He didn't. Besides that he didn't have, do you know what we got here? We have a chain of statements that relate to the dictatorships, and that's the big one for your resignation. Some of you, of course, may feel that we are swimming like fish in the water. One is a Parliamentary representative, the other is a Vice-President, the third Minister for the Interior - of course - and none of them have told us before the National Representation or in a television interview which was supported when he was in Mr Karatzafair's party has deported to be in the New Democracy. I haven't heard anything. I haven't heard anything. He says I'm moving politically, bro. I was on the far right, going to a moderate party. So this party has thrown modesty out the window, and I think the Greek people are entitled to see that against this downhill, against this anti-democratic catastrophe, there will be a solid front of progressive and social and political forces, which will put a brake on these negative political developments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u148	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u149	Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u150	Was it personal, Mr. Stefanade?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u151	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u152	If it was personal, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u153	Mr Papapas said there was a blockade on the issue of the approval of cochineal. I would like to say that every year thousands of studies are published in the worldwide medical literature on medicines, positive studies, negative, neutral. The responsible health authorities in each country are not rushing to adopt these. It takes a stranded time, a time test, a confirmation. The fact that many members, by name, of the Coronary Experts' Committee, participated in our study, says that they had responsibility, had the knowledge that colchikin acted positively, but they could not immediately introduce it into the common use in the community. Reflexes were fast, Mr. Pappa. First Greece approved the use of the medicine and then Cyprus came. I would like to say that something similar could be done with other states. The Greek study was published in a very valid international magazine. It was in the knowledge of the international community. A state did not rush it into its arsenal against the coronary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u154	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Kegerglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u155	However, the important development that existed yesterday in Europe is that the Russians submitted the evidence and a request for their vaccine in order to be approved by the European Union. We hope that action will be taken so that China will also submit a request for evaluation in order to increase Europe's potential to strengthen the vaccination programme. That will be answered by the Minister. The pandemic has brought to light the weaknesses of governments, systems and leaderships, but also distortions of development and consumer standards. It highlighted the need for global cooperation to address global poverty and the management of new risks. It highlighted the need for European integration and, in particular, for the redefinition of policies to focus on human beings, needs and the environment, a model of development with full respect for the environment and social justice in product management, a social state. The pandemic hit the bell dramatically. Priority should be given to public health and support for the ESS and, more generally, the social state. It's an undeniable need at the same time. The government, unfortunately, did not follow this path. It proceeded without an operational plan, with carelessness, ballasts, low-efficiency arrangements and more generally policies of "seeing and doing" and "wrapping" which are different from an institutional evaluation and redefinition mechanism. It's not the same thing. He didn't exploit the experience of the first lockdown. She's awake. He did not prepare the country with a safe opening and it became inevitable the second lockdown. Now we're afraid of a third harder wave. Our President recently referred to the House in numerous statements, acts and omissions that prove that the government has lost control of the pandemic. You have, however, used the crisis very well for purposes, exceptionally works and supplies, for attempting to manipulate the information, for arrangements under the table. You made graceful arrangements for hostiles, but in Caucasus many and the weak. Customer relations, abolition of transparency and accountability. Revealed your true face behind the wrapping of supposedly modern and central. The oligopoies, delays and contempts have led hospitals and the ESS to find themselves weak. Here too, the previous government, which had abandoned them to their fate, has a huge responsibility, with the temporaryity of dealing with the problems. The attempt to put the blame on the doctors was unacceptable! It's over. The ESS, hospitals and the primary health network were not substantially supported. There are responsibilities for the shortages of media, beds, doctors during the second wave. If it were true that the thirteen and a half thousand recruits of the previous government were the fourteen and a half thousand you say, the problem would obviously not exist. It's not true. It is recycling and extensions of ancillary health personnel contracts. We need you to change the rota today. Good preparation is needed and a project to launch notices aimed at, in the first instance, ancillary health staff to join permanent staff places where there are shortcomings. That is what the political will seems to be lacking. And you do not have it because you do not even respond to the amendments that we have tabled and which we are tabling today. Amendment first. The integration of public health and the people of the front line into heavy and unhealthy, as is the case for private workers. On the same day the Minister of Health in here told us that the conclusion has not been reached, and after twenty minutes the Minister of Labour, in reply to another Member, said that the conclusion has been reached, the conclusion has been completed. What's the matter with both? Aren't you cooperating with the two ministries? We want an answer today. We ask for a wage to be paid as a symbolic minimum recognition of the titanic work of the first-line people. Second amendment. Characterisation of COVID as an occupational disease in order to qualify for insurance and pension rights all the persons or their heirs, unfortunately, in work or because of it in the private and public sectors. Many have lost their lives already and many have been disabled. Fourth amendment: self-taxation of newspapers. By increasing their newspapers you get them as a tax more than they take as a fee on the newspaper. Self-taxation: Check it out! No request from the Treasury, he told us about this. There are problems in dealing with the pandemic. There are issues, of course, and the European Union's responsibilities and misconduct of states. That is why I told you that Europe must extend its potential to other horizons, not just to America. It is necessary to redesign and prepare at all levels of vaccination, from receipt, distribution and centres - all of the organisation - to save lost time. Appreciate primary care! I will not go into detail the conditions for safe opening, but be careful not to repeat the 'tracks', they come back worse. We are in favour of consolidation - to refer to the bill - a constant flow of private donations, which will complement public health expenditure and not replace it. And that must be a basic principle. The best possible use requires the establishment of a permanent adequacy and trustworthy organisation or mechanism of an independent authority - we have proposed - which will ensure that they are rational, balanced and fair, with priority where the ESA is most suffering. We are voting for the donations for "Theagenion" and "Georgios Gennamatas" and we call for a regeneration plan created by Gennamias, Agernos, PASOK and Andreas Papandreou, a plan for anthropcentric progress with sustainable development and a modern social state. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That's what society needs. That's why he's fighting the Change Movement, without party bumpers and purposes that characterize the government, but also the unreliable Reliable Opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u156	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr Chryssomalis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I sincerely try to understand what your opposition account is, what your opposition criticism is, what your aim is. So far, the only diagnosis I've ever done is that you have allergies to any positive regulation brought the Government of New Democracy and Mr. Mitsotakis to a vote. I cannot explain otherwise your continued refusal to support without objection even provisions that relieve hundreds of thousands of our low-pension citizens of the cost of participation in the market of medicines necessary for their health. They are the same low-pensions that you cut them off by the ESS, since in 2015 you had told them exactly the opposite. We committed ourselves to supporting them and we did so in 2020. Now do you not feel the need and the obligation to support Mr Mitsotakis' commitment that this favourable regime will also apply to 2021? I'm surprised. Even the main body of the bill, the sponsorship of the Latsis Foundation and of Latsis in the hospitals "Generalities" and "Family" of Thessaloniki, you used to criticise whether the government has a plan to fund health and upgrade the country's health infrastructure or not. Of course, you have received a paid response from the Ministry of Health's political leadership that not only is there a plan, but this has already been submitted and includes proposals of EUR 3 billion in the Recovery Fund, with the EUR 660 million being involved in strengthening infrastructure in our hospitals, proposals that improve the maximum picture of the National Health System and remain in the system. Your whole criticism has once again turned around how many intakes of medical staff have been made to deal with the pandemic, how many intensified beds have been opened, how many economic measures have the government taken to strengthen the economy and relieve our affected fellow citizens. Can I ask you something? How many of these billions did you vote for as support measures by the government? I will tell you not a single euro! Keep making such an unscrupulous review! Aren't you tired, ladies and gentlemen, by SYRIZA, of constantly inventing amazing reasons to criticise, at the same time that you stubbornly refuse to admit that the government is taking all possible measures in the field of health and the economy to deal with this global pandemic? Is it unknown to you that you have delivered five hundred sixty IF beds, and they have now reached three hundred? And we'd have opened a lot more if there were specialist intensive specialists. I think, Minister, that now is the time to see the creation of new centres of emergency medical expertise, as well as to meet the needs there are. Is it unknown to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that more than seven thousand ancillary staff have been recruited in the field of health and that the procedures for intensification of intensive workers are almost complete? You arrived to characterize the bill as a patch, because in addition to the two donations it is coming to deal with critical everyday health issues. And I'm going to ask you kindly: Why do you disagree with the discharge from the countryside of anaesthetics, which we need for them right now in intensive care units? Why do you disagree with the possibility of directly taking up duties in public hospitals unskilled doctors who have applied for specialization? Why do you disagree with the inclusion of general doctors from the EEAS in the ESS doctors' sector, so that they can join the newspaper system as well? Do you have any specific reason to disagree with the provisions concerning the Quality Assurance Agency in health, especially now that is absolutely necessary to ensure the health services offered to patients? Why do you disagree? You disagree with the arrangements concerning the needs of vaccination, the extension of electronic prescription to hospitals or the regulation of the issue of grafts given between relatives in case no histocompatibility exists. With what argument? Finally, I do not want to repeat the provision - which you disagree - of the full discharge from the participation of the pharmaceutical expenditure for pensioners who have cut them off. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, on the part of SYRIZA, I would expect health issues in particular to have a more mature opposition, because that is your role, the one who trusted you by the Greek people. You are also judged by your opposition. You've chosen a denial in everything. Personally, it doesn't bother me. For the sake of our fellow citizens, however, from taking it intolerable criticism and suggestions, at least show that any positive measures by this government - and there are too many - are in support of them, precisely in the national interest! You can see - if you want - useful in the place, useful in society, useful in our democracy, because we will also be judged as government and you as Opposition! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u158	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the debate on vaccines and medicines which preceded me, I would like to point out once again the bad impression made by the Prime Minister when he guaranteed here that vaccines will not be mandatory, he asked the European Union to impose an immunisation identity, so that we do not agree with either we or many European states, such as Romania which accused him of being publicly accused of vaccination. Besides, his request has been rejected. As we have repeatedly stressed, we do not agree and are opposed to an immediate or indirect vaccination obligation. We are totally opposed to a direct or indirect vaccination obligation. Now, how long the government will hide the catastrophe that has caused our economy behind COVID is something that causes us great questions. But sooner or later, mismanagement will be seen, among other things, by the continuous and uncomplicated locks it imposes without any programming at all. Today's bill follows, as almost all, the government's known practices. What practices? Simplifiedly, around a flagship issue - today the donation of the Latsis family, covered by an article - is added a range of amendments, for example the addition of staff to the fourth chapter and other provisions. This is about continuing the fragmented co-legislative of COVID-19 measures, noting that from the hundreds of twenty thousand deaths per year in Greece on average, only five thousand are due to the virus. However, according to ELSTAT, deaths were a hundred and twenty thousand four hundred fours in forty-nine weeks of 2020, as we present in the Minutes, i.e. about 4% of older people with underlying illnesses. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As regards the vaccine, the fact that the German President of the Commission negotiated the purchase of six hundred million vaccines on behalf of the German 'BIONTECH' should tell us a lot about this. In particular, with its price at EUR 15 compared to only EUR 3 to EUR 4 of the UK 'ASTRAZENECA' and around EUR 2 of the Russian 'SPUTNIK', the German company together with its US partner, PFIZER's, will increase their turnover by EUR 9 billion. It is a sum and profits that one kills in the present capitalist system. Only as an anecdotes, now, can it be seen as Mrs Bakoyannis' statement that the medications from the vaccines should not be won, let alone since we all know the NOVARTIS scandal or the millions of vaccines that we flew during Mr Avramopoulos' time. It has now been heard that some of the vaccines will be produced by the German "BIONTECH", at the premises of the French "Sanofi", because Germany is always accustomed to giving some crumbs to France so that it does not react, as was recently the case with Greece's armament programme. They are crumbs, since Germany is targeting its sovereignty in the Aegean with its always allies, Turkey, recalling that it always wanted access to energy reserves before World War II. We have, of course, forgotten about the atrocities of war, which have been convinced, manipulated better, that they were responsible for some nazis and not the Germans. The Germans, however, owe us more than EUR 3 000 billion of damages and damages that the nazis refuse to give us and not the nazis. We will not go on talking about the conventions and the amending provisions, since our rapporteur has covered them very well, but in some parts of the donation, noting - so as not to misunderstand - that donation is always a positive action. Therefore, if we had any objections, we would be unaccountable, which would of course be inappropriate. However, having noted to date that several donations have been made which may be a practice that will continue, we wish to make some points about the future. In this context, bills have recently been tabled with donations from the Foundations "Norarch" and "Onassis", which, like today, follow common guidelines. First of all, they are offered by institutions based in Liechtenstein whose tax regime may not officially characterise the state as a tax paradise, but are opaque, as we analysed it in the draft law on money laundering and profit transfer. Furthermore, these donations are made by signing several detailed and binding contracts, through which the State undertakes to respect the good functioning of the donation, provides tax exemptions and gives the beneficiary the right to use his name ads. The example of this contract is two donations worth 2m euros, firstly the renovation and upgrading of the Emergency Department of the General Hospital of Athens "GEORGIOS GENNAMAS" - very good advertising for Mrs Gennimata - and, secondly, the installation of a decentralised daily hospital unit for the tumor patients of the Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki "Theageneio". The first donation contract is part of a wider value of EUR 5 million in total, which the Latsis Foundation offers, as it says, with a deep sense of debt to the victims of the fires of July 23 and 24, 2018 in the eastern Attica. This is the fires in Matty, where a hundred and a hundred of our fellow people died - we know them - many more were injured while several properties were destroyed. The investigation of the case is under way, so we will not be talking about just saying that the compensation claimed, according to publications and estimates of lawyers, is - with all due respect to the suffering of the people concerned and knowing that human life is not measured by money - of the order of EUR 1 million for any death, as we put it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In other words, this is more than EUR 100 million in total in claims, without mentioning the injured, while material damage to houses and infrastructures that have not yet been restored, with only part of them being insured. The funds, therefore, of the 38m euros donations managed by the public-owned company "WHEN" set up for this purpose, will not be enough to cover the losses, as we said in the relevant bill after our own calculations. They will therefore be charged with the budget, so the government must take it into account. We also mention it because it is a tragedy that must not be forgotten so that it does not happen again. The EUR 4 million of the two contracts reasonably complements the amounts for the costs of public hospitals, which, on the basis of the budget, amount to EUR 2.7 billion in 2021 from EUR 2,76 billion in 2020 and EUR 2,6 billion in 2019. Therefore, 2021 will be EUR 60 million less than 2020, although COVID continues and is mutated, and there was no provision in the budget for vaccines. And the reason we mention the expenditure on hospitals is that today's 4 million euros are a drop in the ocean, and without underestimating donations, it would obviously be possible for the public to cover it without the need for so many commitments it makes. However, when, for other donations, for example, the Marinaki-Fraghu - 'ION' - valued EUR 1.5 million for the twelve ICUs at the Nice Hospital - which we have tabled in the Minutes - there were no conventions or commitments. Unless they follow later. They're going to follow the truth? If not, why? What is the difference with institutions? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] More specifically, as regards the donation to the unit of the "Failure" which will be required to be called the "Nikos Kourkoulos" Day Hospital - obviously underneath it will be the name of the Latsis family - we must mention that the promotion of a name costs significant amounts, especially in a unit such as the "Failure" that receives sixty thousand incidents and about sixteen thousand chemos annually. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Therefore, there is a business transaction somewhere, as we have seen in other donations of the Foundations "Narchus" and "Onasis" among other things by posting their names. It is something that, along with the commitments made by the public, must not be underestimated at all. Name advertisements, in other words, cost huge, very large amounts abroad, and it is a big debate today in the United States. One further problem here is that the State has no right to interfere in the project, so it cannot impose, for example, the financing of equipment produced in Greece by Greek enterprises to support the domestic economy. We must note here that the new President of the United States, despite his opposition to the previous President, has adopted and tightened the 'American Market', as far as public procurement is concerned - as we in the Minutes - claiming that it is not protectionism or contrary to the rules of the World Trade Organisation, as the Greek Government has told us, when we have proposed it in the past. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So it is something that we should do, especially in terms of government supplies. As we advertise the vaccine or «We are House», spending huge sums, we could do it for Greek products, with what we produce and generate jobs, GDP and profits in our country, reducing the gangrene of the trade deficit that has been launched again at heights by negatively pressing our GDP, along with the current account balance, which has relaunched its intense upwards, as in 2009. Advertising is obviously forbidden if we wrote "I only buy Greek" from the word "only", but not if we do not include it. It's an easy thing to do and we have to do it to support our economy. I repeat that without economic independence, there is no national independence. In conclusion, we want to emphasise once again that our differences with the New Democracy are too many and large. It is a party that seems to be completely indifferent to the middle-class and literally hates entrepreneurs according to their policy, among other things by increasing the state, such as 2004-2009, which overcrowded the country. The most important difference is perhaps that we believe in a free, proud, dignified and independent Greece that does not bend the heads of the Germans, what all governments have usually done over the last ten years, while we are in favour of a genuinely free market with a social face. We are also in favour of the nation - state and against uncontrolled globalisation that reduces workers' wages among others, deliberately turning societies into multicultural to be easily controlled. We are sure that the rich Greece can do so, that it is able to regain its national sovereignty, which has been handed over to the memorials of all the parties and, in particular, the PSI, without any charity from its stateless elites, those that are literally the source of Greece's suffering, but in no case with this mismanagement, with which Greece has been immersed again at a recession of 10% in 2020, with a deficit of EUR 24.1 billion - that is, the damage to a company - with a public debt of more than EUR 370 billion, equal to about 230 % of its GDP in terms of the central government and with a private debt of EUR 260 billion from EUR 240 billion recently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u160	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Yoyakas from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u161	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is - or at least it must be - self-evident that all parties welcome the two donations of the Lazis Foundation to the public health system and that they recognise their importance. What does not seem to be self-evident is the context and purpose of most of the other provisions of the bill, which have, moreover, been dealt with most of the debate. But the framework is clear. We are in an emergency situation in which human lives are saved. It is important that those who are most seriously ill have access to appropriate hospital care. It's just as important to protect them from the disease as many of our fellow citizens can. It is important that the health system stays upright and maintains its strength. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. The rhetoric of counter-population, the issues it raises in the debate, the position it takes in specific provisions cannot ignore this reality. We have been criticised, because many provisions have - they say - managed logic. But that's what the government does, manages and continues to manage a crisis in progress. And what does he keep doing? It continues to shield the public health system and in the field of incident management and in the field of prevention, with the top of the vaccination programme. This is what it is doing with the inclusion of general doctors from the EEAS in the ESS medical profession to enhance on-call. This is done with the immediate taking up of duties of doctors with a licence to pursue a profession that they have applied for in their hospital qualification. This is what it is doing with the discharge of doctors of anaesthetics from the obligation to serve a countryside. This is what it does with the emergency movement of hospital doctors to primary care to support the extended working hours, in which vaccinations will take place in health centres and in regional medical establishments. At the same time, however, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, we are dealing with issues that improve the daily lives of many thousands of fellow citizens and continue to exempt from participation in the market for low-retirement medicines, former beneficiaries of the CSCE, at the expense of the state budget, as our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the ESS, who - let us recall this - abolished SYRIZA, who also supported poverty through reductions in all kinds of pensions and increases in direct and indirect taxes. They therefore resolve issues by extending access to electronic pre-authorisation for high-cost treatments and medicines, as well as by improving the transplant system, especially in the case of organ donors who wish to help a related or friendly person. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the urgent priorities, the government is intervening and giving solutions with a long term perspective, with interventions that remain. We have listened with satisfaction to the Deputy Minister to inform us of the completion of the procedures for the permanentisation of subsidiary doctors working in intensive care units, the opening of nine hundred forty-one doctors in primary health care, the six hundred million euros of the Recovery Fund proposed to be used to upgrade health structures and infrastructures. I was also pleased to see, thanks to the coordinated efforts of the head of the Ministry of Health and the administration of the 6th Health Region - which I thank from this Step - to cover critical gaps in the only hospital and health centers in Thesprotia by recruiting medical nurses and other personnel. But we were pleased to see the Philatians Hospital running after years, the two - bed unit that has IF specifications. Her ability can be doubled and go to the four beds, if, Minister, a doctor and respirators are available, which I ask you to see with special interest. To equip our units now operating with your leadership directly. He's already in BMI. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, health staff and other public officials who are at the forefront of the management of the pandemic and its impacts, are fighting daily in conditions that are constantly changing. We read and hear that new coronary mutations make him more contagious and more dangerous for our lives. We have two difficult months ahead of us because of peaking and seasonal flu. The road is still long and full of challenges without overlooking the general issues of the public health system. Let us at least agree that in such a crisis we must separate what is essential from what can be expected and what can be done under these exceptional circumstances from what we would like to do. With this in mind, I would like to close by thanking the Latsis Foundation for its donations to the "Georgios Gennamatas" and the "Family" which once again demonstrates that the private initiative can respond to current social needs in a way that makes a difference for thousands of our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Boubas has the floor from Greek Solution and then Mrs Adamopoulou from Mera25
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing something sacred on the basis of the etymology of the word. When we say'support', etymology means 'great' and 'em'. The 'ei' of course can be done and I am 'loved'. This is where he wants to pay attention to donations. And when the "e" becomes "love", it means lack of will. Watch it. The "fashion" may say linguists mean space or hand. I mean, I'm hand-to-hand, I'm giving help, hand-to-hand. But the "e" is very easy to get passive. And that's what we need to be careful about. But it's a system that most wants you to owe it, not spend it. When the man is dead, he's free. And I fear that donations and sponsorships are good, but they open the ferry to privatize within the national body of public health. There are multiple and complex problems. Law 3863/2010 divides nurses into two categories, plenipotentiaries and plenipotentiaries. I've said it in another speech. In other words, those who have been hired after 2010 are involved in heavy and unhealthy. Those who have been hired before 2010 are not integrated. The wage difference comes up to 300 euros. You realize we can't talk about two speed nursing staff. In recent years there has been a series of medical visitors in front of doctors’ offices. There are many doctors here. We did the hospitals "sales" of medical visitors to close deals with doctors, as far as the consumables that hospitals need, while this work is an administrative model, administrative nature. So what did we do? It is not just the medical and nursing staff with whom there is currently a problem with the hospitals in the country. It's the management. We haven't upgraded it. Because good administration will bring results to hospitals. Mr Mitsotakis, a year ago he met with the Greek Shipowners' Association to thank them for the assistance. However, I cannot accept as a taxpayer from a Greek citizen and as to the taxpayers and bio-patients who are listening to me being taken by the shipowner sheets, bed linen and anything else. Not that it's bad help, but the point is, the door opens. Because if a mastograph is donated today, a CT scanner, a palmographer, the service provider is now the sponsor, namely the consumables, we put a service deposit in the next few years that the sponsor will control. Then there is something very important. Will the job be given on the basis of locality criteria to Greeks or foreigners? Let me remind the architect from Genoa who's a renowned architect, Rencho...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u164	Piano.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u165	Rencho Piano - quite rightly - took over the architecture of three hospitals. He's a good architect, but why? There were no Greek architects? In the architetura called Latinos. Why? There's a question coming in. I would also like to remind Mr Kikilia, who is not in the Chamber, that he promised me a question that we made as a Greek Solution here from the Step forward that something will be done with the EMCDDA to staff the potential for people who are in the composition of an ambulance's crew, drivers from health centres, so that the conference can be held. Now look what the oxymom is. Inside the ambulances one rescuer is covered insurance up to 150,000 euros in case of death for his family. It takes over thirty kilometers of travel. On the other hand, the other one is stumbled. She doesn't even get an equipment allowance. Two yards and two weights. Now we're going to Articles 2, 32 and 33. We are opposed, gentlemen, as a Greek solution. You cannot make a vaccine mandatory on the basis of individual constitutional freedom. The body is mine, and I decide. No one else. 'Cause you're going down there and I'm supposed to take what I'm going to say below. It is part of the fact that I have identified other points within it. So, what does the Minister say here? Doctors and qualified people will leave to go to primary health care, early in the morning - afternoon, to become vaccination centres, but the service time of mobile qualified doctors will count in specialty. I mean, if I get a urologist, nephrologist, gastroenter, and they take me to my specialty in vaccination centers, time in vaccination centers counts my specialty. What's the gastroenter or the urologist going to vaccination centers? That's where you inject me! But we are vertically opposed, gentlemen, to this compulsion that you are going to slow down. And I'm presumed to be some kind of statement that the president, Alexandre De Zignak, has made. Who's that? He's the president of IATA. In English, International Air Transport Association. What's he saying? To make Mr Mitsotakis' proposal on a QR-code health certificate - i.e. with information whether both doses were made - that there should be free movement of citizens on the basis of the vaccination certificate. He's the president of the international air carrier worldwide. That is, Illuminato Primo ministro said by the Italians. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Boubas, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Very full of Brain our Prime Minister! He's giving them some ideas. And even De Zinjak wrote Ursula von der Lyen. It says to her: 'Put it in the Com munity'. Note now, this international air carrier is charged with air ticket cartel. Nice air carrier! I mean, put on expensive tickets. And some airlines left IATA for that reason. So the guy who says it's real about the Prime Minister's idea to be released with health certificates is also charged with cartel. We're going crazy! He needs attention, gentlemen. And here you all have to admit that, when the President of the Greek Solution, Kyriakos Velopoulos, from the summer he was shouting for medicine, about other turbulents. We're ending up with medicine. You see what's going on. Be careful about every sponsorship because there are other painful stories. Remember "BIOHALCO"? When he fired workers and had them unpaid, he goes out "HALYBOURGIKI" and donates! Many times donations have a camouflage. On the other hand, we need them. But, first of all, health belongs to the Greeks, it belongs to the bourgeois, who is taxed and we must heal his soul. The word "funding" from ancient Greece is sacred, but we must respect it, but woe and alas if we slid behind private individuals because the budget does not come out. Where's Christmas gift for nurses? Mr. Kontozamanis left it open, gave them hope. Dum spiro spiro! Mr Gerapetititi in statements by the end of November. What's he gonna say? A little applause? To close, let me remind you, through this Parliament, Eleftherios Venizelos 1928 - not 1918, Spanish flu - closes Parliament because it had cases of an epidemic of laundry fever. But what does Eleftherios Venizelos do? He commands Zavitian and Doxiadis, his two ministers, and gives 15 million drachmas to the municipalities for health material, 10 million drachmas to the most deprived and all those whose cafés at that time were closed down. Also Eleftherios Venizelos, who himself was hospitalized in "Evangelism" with forty fever, says to Doxiadis: "He gave two hundred thousand drachmas to the sanitary." No deposit then! It was a donation! Learn from them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u167	I'm closing, Madam President. So we need to be careful about a national health system that needs to be reformed, because the maps with regional hospitals have been ponding and they have been the same for many years. This has to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Aggeliki Adamopoulou has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Madam President. What should be more concerned about today's health ministry bill is what the government's pandemic management policy has achieved so far, or to say it better what the central policy that has not been developed is. The government has unfortunately been engaged in a communication management of the issue, dealing with various issues of topicality, which cause a doro, and then, with very much carelessness, contempt and haste in statements on allegedly proclaiming measures, which, above all, have not taken care to study, compare them and see whether they are applicable. A very characteristic example of what I am saying is the literal hole in the water that the Prime Minister has made with the infamous certificates of vaccination, for which he has indeed made a literal order and followed all the other members of the government unwisely, quite simply, without having studied this very matter. And the twenty-seven leaders of the European Union are coming to virtually empty the Prime Minister, who had proposed that the certificate be travelled, and to reject his proposal, deciding that this certificate will be purely medical. Since March, since the outbreak of the first wave of the pandemic, you have been committed to some measures to strengthen the national health system. What you have finally done is to lock the Greek people in his homes, supposedly to buy time and see how you can improve and correct the situation. And here comes the WTO itself today with a statement of protest to denounce the tragic state of the national health system, which is literally falling apart. Up to now complaints have been made about the managers of hospitals, whom you have appointed, who are making threats to health - doctors and nurses - so that they do not come out to make public statements about the real situation in hospitals. If, of course, they went out and said bi-corruption words about the government, the governors would have no problem. Instead of those who dared to go out and tell the truth, as happened with a doctor at the "Savvas" Hospital, what followed was disciplinary persecution, ESA and criminal persecution. In all the proposals we made as Mera25 and the rest of the opposition to the extraordinary financial support for medical staff, which literally gives their lives every day and which is at the forefront of dealing with the situation, the Minister finally replied that health workers are morally and emotionally rewarded. For the heroes of everyday life eventually what has been proved is that their government has as disposable disposables, limited only to moral and emotional reward, people who have exceeded the limits of their exhaustion. A journalist, who actually proves what he is, is a state of the New Democracy, is making this shameful and provocative statement for doctors in relation to the measures they are asking for, that what they want is to be crippled all day long. And none of the guests came out - between them and the Minister of Development - to disprove him and restore reality. You are even going out and saying that you have made massive recruitments of seven thousand health workers. In order to restore the truth, they are not permanent, as we have been asking for for so long, and we are barely talking about the process of permanentization of the intensifiers for hundreds of people. Is it true, in fact, that these trivial amounts, this very small number of sanitary and even non-permanent, are you expecting that you will face the situation when the National Health System in Northern Greece has specifically collapsed? Why is the National Health System falling apart, Minister, if the measures you have taken and the recruitments you have undertaken so far are sufficient? As far as cheques are concerned, we asked you to check private clinics. What you have done above all is to guarantee, ensure the clinical rulers with huge compensation. You did have the nerve to go out with a minister and say that "no, you don't need intensive care units because most would die, as they already died in ICUs", when 80% of people who have lost their lives are out of intensive care units. The issue of vaccination proved to be a fiasco, a shipwreck. Other numbers, but numbers are here. We see most European countries at the moment, such as Hungary, as is Germany, aware of the failure of the situation following the stifling of companies, who have guaranteed their remuneration, their money, their turning to other alternative treatments, turning to other transnational agreements, such as Russia's agreement on the respective Russian vaccine, and we here have a insistence on depreciation and degradation of alternative treatments, such as drugs - it is characteristic that Germany will also turn into a cocktail of antibodies - by saying that medicines have not yet been approved by the European Medicines Agency, as is the procedure for approving vaccinations, Mr Minister, not to talk about who is hiding behind the funding of the World Health Organisation in order to approve these vaccines, and of course you are telling us that it is at an experimental stage. Why are vaccines not, when it is shown that they do not guarantee any immunity to the population? Not more than two months after the person who did it, but no one will ensure that the virus is transmitted to the surroundings. You did, in fact, make sure that these vaccines are provided with rheology first for your own people, for your executives and for your partners, within that logic of the clientele you have. And only when you ate the great sturgeon and the social outcry came the Prime Minister as a aftermath of Christ Moses to make a pretext supposedly strict message, since evil had already been done, after all the vulnerable groups and health workers had been smuggled. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Also, before it turns out what will be the impact of the opening of municipal schools and when the rate of increase in cases in Attica has reached the point where the end-October cases in Thessaloniki had reached, you are preparing to open secondary education, while the same infectiousists are too cautious in relation to opening up and when there are already fifty-nine cases of British mutant in our country and a large dispersion of the new strain is expected throughout Attica and Crete. Finally, as a crown of your incomplete health planning, the state budget, which provides for a reduction of almost half a billion euros in health expenditure, because you have taken care of the money from the state budget to give it to Rafale, to give it to 'PALANTIR', which has now been replaced by another shadow corporation for the processing of personal data, to give it to the notorious university education, which will cost 30m euros, 34% of the education budget by reducing the budget for EITs, which are subordinated and underfunded. And what is the reason for this university education now, when universities first do not work, but operate with tele-education, when the police can intervene only after committing criminal offences - there is a law providing for it - rather than for disciplinary misconduct and for anti-academic behavior which you invoke in advance for students? [[Athanasios BOURAS (Greens/EFA, B) Report on the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data Doc: ……]] Not to mention the ferry that will be opened, let me be allowed to express, for the donors, for all those who just hand over students because they have ideological disagreements between them. So you are not looking for alternative treatments. You insist on the record of supposedly keeping the timeline that by March 25% of the population will be vaccinated when vaccinated according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control only 1,18% of the population in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u170	Completely, my fellow Member, because you have exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u171	I shall conclude, Mr President. And the health workers are already out today and said that in May the vulnerable groups will have been vaccinated. It's a clear account in relation to the vaccines. So instead of feeling your enormous responsibility for your criminal acts and omissions in the health and health crisis, you live in a parallel universe, in which your own journalists do, the plausible journalists and - what do they do? - look at this situation and present it, as you wish to present it, precisely in the direction of government policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u172	Thank you. I call on the New Democracy MP, Mr Efstratios Simopoulos, for seven minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, I am not usually asking for more time today, because I have the sad privilege of being one of the two Members of this House, who has been treated with COVID. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also lived on this adventure, although for forty days I did not actually leave the house. But I had to run some tests and for two, three days I did these tests, which were clear. And yet, I stuck the virus. The virus is here, it's subtle, it's ruthless. I am very amazed when I hear voices against vaccination, even under the cloak of a hypocritical, I would say, of interest, so that it is not mandatory. He's here, we need to be careful. Regardless of whether we have symptoms or not, once we're positive we have to start treatment. Irrespective of whether for a period of time we don't have a fever, when we get a fever, we have to get into hospitals right away. In addition to my adventure, I had the opportunity to share experiences from people who lost friends and relatives, from people who experienced but stayed at home, from people who entered the ICU, from people who were hospitalized, like me, but didn't have to enter the ICU. In fact, charming, I would say, I've been thinking about having a coronary association, too, but I might also give some ideas to colleagues from SYRIZA. They are able to bring in some amendments calling for the Coronopulators to be given special treatment in the AACC's examinations. I hope you don't. Of course, two things emerged through this procedure. One is that the system has endured through government policies and secondly through the work of medical and nursing personnel. And the logic that the wolf comes to the mansion, a logic of counterpopulation, is actually not true. All Greek citizens who needed the coronary to have the hospitality they had had. But should there be a restructuring of the health system? Yes, I do. Do we have to strengthen it? Yes, I do. Why, though, are you afraid of the private sector? What we all have to fight for is free care. A care that I had as a privileged person, that we all have in a military hospital, in 424, to be for all citizens. It's about having her free, not who's gonna give her. At the same time, however, should health infrastructure be strengthened? Yes, I do. However, do not you see, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, so ideologically speaking. We must all fight for health free and be at a high level for the non-preferential. The state pays, but it can pay for some forms of hospitality and individuals. It's not bad. We must therefore insist on free care. I now come to the issues of Thessaloniki, because this bill also concerns Thessaloniki. We all need to welcome these donations together and not to see, behind donations, an opportunity to make real benefactors in the country - who have found the resources working abroad mainly - opposition to matters that they do not need. In addition to these large benefactors, there are hundreds of smaller ones who help not only the health system, generally the local communities. The strengthening of the health system in Thessaloniki began years ago. I would remind you that in 2012-2014 the construction of new surgery began in “ACHEPA”, the installation of the PET unit in the “Gaveline” went ahead. You then came to your friends, colleagues of SYRIZA and continued the process, for example, to resolve the property regime at the "Saint Paul" Hospital. The Paediatric Hospital in Thessaloniki started on your own governance. We all have to fight together, for example, for the Paediatric Hospital in Thessaloniki, to have appropriate access. The Government and the Minister concerned and the Deputy Minister announced yesterday the most famous Haematological Clinical Clinic in Thessaloniki, a pioneering clinic, a clinic that will be research and will join the Recovery Fund. We have advanced the energy upgrade of the Hippocrates. Other actions are being taken with regard to all major hospitals in Thessaloniki. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I'm going to need some more time, Mr. President. So what I would like to stress is that, in health matters, we must all be sick, continue what the previous governments have started, and of course, when needed, we must also press on with the government. That's what I'm going to do now on two issues. I have said one thing to the committee, and I said it yesterday, and I now say it. External prison guards must be able to hospitalize in military hospitals. We, the MPs or the officials of the National Office, or the officials of the Ministry of Shipping, cannot be armed, hospitalized and hospitalized. They'll all be able to do it together. In this respect, Mr Minister, I will keep bringing it up. There is a need for the Service of Building Infrastructures in Thessaloniki. It's a solid request. Building infrastructure is ready to help in the direction of hospitals as well. We all have to fight together to achieve this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, with two amendments which are very important and which have not received any attention, two amendments which the Ministry has put forward, one which I would like to thank - on the initiative of the State Secretary, Mrs Raptta - for the initiative of the State Secretary. They can now go to hospitals, rather to care services for Alzheimer's, which is "reaping" out, and twenty-five people are hospitalized. It is something that is first and foremost not important, but it is for many people. The second is another amendment concerning pharmacy. It has to do with the people who are united with the son, the pharmacist. These two amendments concern a lot of people and are extremely positive and show the government's willingness, through micromanagement, to provide solutions. I conclude - I finally did it with one - a half and a half more - with this. I will insist on being vaccinated, being all preachers of this effort and isolating the voices that move in another direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr Simopoulos. As you first pointed out, you are also one of those who suffered this adventure that passes through all mankind and indeed, you are cured. I will now invite the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement to the Step, Mr Michael Katrin. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last eleven months Greek society has been living in a fragile balance between health and the economy. On the one hand, the health disorder has dramatic - overwhelming, we could say - consequences on the economy. And we say this, since we are talking today, probably the third wave of the pandemic is ante portas. At the same time, the lack of financial resources undermines the effectiveness of the health system, with the private health sector of course thinking with purely private economic criteria. And this was seen at the peak of the second pandemic wave. Of course, without the support of the private sector and the wave of donations, the health system would not have developed intensive treatment units, the ones it has today, no matter how much the government wants to present it as its own success. In fact, it has delayed too much, so that all donations are not exploited in time, which has affected the overall availability of intensive care units and, of course, has also laid down the final decisions on lockdown which have an impact on the market. I say this because today we are discussing the donation of the Joint Benefit Foundation 'Joannis Latsis'. I, at least, being elected and raised in Elias, will say that we have too many, I will not say thousands, but hundreds of cases that the Ioannis Latsis Foundation has supported Elias Prefecture and several people from the region. The donation is to Georgios Gennimatas Hospital, which is a hospital emblematic. I and Minister Kikilias were lucky and honoured to have a teacher at the School of Public Health, the Deputy Director of the Hospital, Ms. Mina, and we know the consistency, the workability and the morality with which both the Governor, Mr. Boulias and Mrs. Mina are working and will carry out this very important donation of the Foundation "Ioannis Latsis". At the same time, we are also discussing the donation of Ms Marianna Latsis to "Theatre" and the Hellenic Anticancer Society. Donations - and Andreas Poulas said so - are a key pillar of support for the ESS. But you will allow me, Minister, to start a bit in the opposite direction in the health - economic - since you represent the government. I would like your attention to the part of the economy. Professionals, traders and businessmen in the country in the last few days have been living an unprecedented situation and a frustration by the government. There were seven hundred thirty-two thousand applications for a repayable advance in a total of eight hundred thirty thousand active business VAT. In practice, 90% of the companies applied for a repayable advance. Of these, fewer than half have been approved. On the basis of the platform and the government's algorithm, there is no crisis on the market, since one in both companies is not affected, and that is why they will not receive a repayable advance. That is what Mr Mitsotakis' government says in the companies that, in the quarter of September - December 2020, were at least half closed. At the same time, ELSTAT's third quarter figures show that we had a turnover drop of 13 billion with the market open. The due date is 6 billion in 2020 and the revenue shortfall is over 14 billion. I would like to ask you, Mr Contozamani, since you represent the government: do you think that half the country's companies are not affected in the pandemic between September and December? It's the first question, and I'm waiting for an answer. Whatever you do, whatever corrective moves are going to put ten thousand businesses - at the same time that you only borrowed 3.5 billion more yesterday at 0.8% interest rate - you need to make a decision, first, to increase the repayable advance to 5.5 billion in 2021 and finally to set criteria that meet the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, in this situation today, the government of the country cannot tell the commercial world that it regards half as unaffected and will not receive one euro as a repayable advance. This must be changed in a country where private debt exceeds 240 billion, which, based on the Bank of Greece's report, 55.7% of small businesses' loans were red in September. In this we do not put the loans that have gone to the funds. This ejects the percentage so that more than 80% of small businesses' loans are red. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, the government is discussing with the institutions the reopening of auctions after the end of the quarantine. We, as a Change Movement, want to know what banks and funds say - which in these discussions with the government and the institutions are calling for the reopening of auctions - and what the government says. Because the government says nothing. It hides behind the ministerial decisions of Lockdown and the closure of the courts. So what do you say about the management of private debts for households and businesses? That is why we asked for and tabled yesterday - I put it in the Minutes - a letter for a sitting in the House, for the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the Bank of Greece, representatives of banks and funds to come and discuss the issue of red loans and a sustainable solution. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Second question, Mr Kontozamanis, to the Government: Will you bring legislation to suspend first home auctions, yes or no? We've been waiting for three months to answer. We keep putting it to you. You haven't taken a clear position. So, health - economy and how one interacts with each other, on the basis of the latest unfavourable developments, with the reduction of 75% of the ASTRAZENCA vaccines, despite the threat of the European Commission to ban exports, in order to force the company to comply with the terms of the convention on the timetable, it is unknown now that we are talking about what quantities are to be delivered to Greece in the second quarter of 2021 and that is what the government has to answer. At the same time, valid European sites say that 70% of vaccination coverage is an objective that now stands for 2023. PFIZER announced delays at the beginning of a month, then said it would be a week's delays. We have vaccination inhibitors in Madrid, Czech Republic. Of course, it is imperative to avoid nationalisation of vaccines and to implement the European Union's transparency mechanism. We are waiting for him until Friday, to see whether he is effective, despite the fact that two Member States of the European Union have already made private agreements and despite the fact that they have subsequently recovered. The decisions of the Council of Europe are good. I am a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Obviously, it is an institution dealing with human rights. However, I do not know whether they are binding on the European Union's policy, which, unfortunately, shows too weak to ensure the highest good, that of the human life of all the citizens of the Union. With regard to the flow of vaccinations in our country, although it has been said - our rapporteur, Andreas Poulas, and the Commission and plenary - there is a slow flow, indeed, in Europe as a whole. Of course, very high expectations have been cultivated in our country. The end of December-January statements still ring in our ears that by June Greece will have reached 60% -70% of vaccination coverage. Yesterday, Mr Chiodras said that at the end of March, we will have 10% vacant coverage, so I should rather not say the expression "most of all of you talking." Minister, the Change Movement - not to say it's safe - since 10 November - had asked Mr Poulas and asked him to learn your vaccination plan if you have a plan. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You say a thousand eighty-sixteen vaccination centres, four mid-February vaccination centres, involving health centres in vaccination and sixty-five mobile units. On 7 December - I put it in the Minutes - Mrs Gennimata was wondering whether you intend to involve health centres. You announced it and put it into effect fifty days later. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Have you prepared for separation of vaccination lines depending on the type of vaccine? You have been late for the vaccination centres and you have done exactly what you have done in intensive care units. What did you do? Disposal and secondment of existing personnel. And retrospectively, you'd like to have a seat for the centers. Can I ask you something, Minister? Today, which is 28 January, can some new age group book an appointment for vaccination in the country, yes or no? I would like you to note them, please, so that you can answer them today. Fourth question: Not the ones you have announced, but a new vaccination team can call and close a vaccine, yes or no? I know what the answer is. The Prime Minister himself spoke of the number of doses of vaccines that require twenty thousand vaccinations a day. You said to the committee - I believe - that in the last seven days the average is sixteen thousand. But today we have two hundred eighty-eight thousand doses of vaccines, of which - correct me, if I am wrong - ninety-six are committed to the second dose. The right choice, the right choice, because Denmark that did not pay for it. However, this does not respond to the problem if we have vaccines and if the flow of vaccination is to continue and if anyone can make an appointment today, Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President. Proposals for a Change Movement. On 3 September, I tabled a proposal for the regeneration of the ESS - I am tabling it in the Minutes - at the anniversary of the PASOK on 3 September. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Amendment on 18 December - it was the tenth or tenth - comes the eleventh or twelfth in a few minutes - for the integration into the heavy and unhealthy staff of the National Health System and social security institutions and people in the first line. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above amendment, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You have brought four amendments to the House and extended the Behraki procedure. That's great! The Behraki Commission has come to an end. Will you bring any further amendment to extend the consultation of a committee that has now come to the government to bring in and legislate what we - and not just us - have the scientific documentation of the Behraki Committee? Of course, the reflexes of the government will allow me to say that they are not the most satisfying ones. I shall refer to three cases. First case. We read in newspapers that two hundred and fifty-three thousand households of the weakest economic classes will receive EUR 200 for the purchase of computers or teletexts for national resources from the Public Investment Programme. That's right. Of course, this decision is taken ten months after the start of pandemic and teletext, and it is unknown whether it is implemented by the end of this school year. Do you remember, Minister, that president from Pefki, Elias, who brought children to the café, and the Minister of Education and the entire New Democracy fell to blame him for setting up the scene and that there are no problems with children who have no computers or network to enter telephony? Who are those two hundred fifty and three hundred thousand who'll take the voucher to get a computer? Ask training managers to tell you about students' absences and thousands of incidents throughout the country, listed students who do not have either computer or network connections. Fortunately, you see it, even too late. Second case for government reflexes. We read that you have appointed a plan manager to speed up procedures for issuing all old pension applications. Three hundred and fifty thousand outstanding, main and subsidiary, pensions and one-off, three-year waiting. Farmers and farmers, of course, not even temporary pension. A year and a half later, the Mitsotakis Government finds this painful situation. He's bringing an amendment to order computers at the end of December. Of course, the institutions said directly to you yesterday that progress in this area is zero. Mr Brutsis is not here to convince us on the contrary, if there is argument on the contrary, and if he really has the 'costs' to come out and address the thousands of pensioners who live without incomes for three years for how they can do this. Third case. It's about the Ministry of Health. I'll be sorry, Minister. You were expecting Mr. Mitsotakis to announce the lockdown on November 5th and six hours later you had an amendment to hire doctors and nurses to the intensive care units, while the cases were increased and, of course, you had indications from the other countries that the second pandemic is on the rise. What does that show us? It shows us that the government does not believe in the public health system. Despite the commitment of the Prime Minister to permanentize doctors and nurses who participated in the battle against the coronary, made by Mr Mitsotakis himself and by the political leadership of the Ministry of Health in parliamentary control, this is limited to the doctors of intensive care units. The ERC and infrastructure have not been strengthened with permanent staff. Also, the inertia was unprecedented until the second wave of pandemic erupted. In this respect, of course, you also have your own assessment of the private health sector, Mr Minister, who has not only been in the national battle against the coronary pandemic, but also at the critical hour he has made excessive demands to come to an agreement with you - you are taking care of a bill with the bill, an article with the article, to favour him by going through specific provisions. It is right that the provision of the bill for the full discharge of the participation in the medical expenses of those who have been definitively deprived of the provision of the CRP. Of course, let us not forget that the ESS was established in PASOK and was abolished in SYRIZA. Beware of irony: According to the General Accounting Office, this measure, which is right, this right provision for those who took the NSA not to pay for their involvement in medicines costs, Mr Loverdo, EUR 20 million. Do you remember what else is 20 million euros? It is the money of the Pecha List. At least this list, the list of people who will take drugs, having lost the ESS, which costs as much as the "Petsa List", is worth it and must be supported by all the wings of the Parliament. It is a proper decision on the responsibilities of the Panhellenic Medical Association and the Hellenic Dental Federation. I don't know what you're going to do with the $300 compensation. You're taking her. I don't know what your final decisions are. Otherwise, it's a bill in the health ministry. It brings incomplete provisions, procedures with legislative arrangements, amendments with too many articles regulating incoherent issues. He has an amendment to the EEA's Board of Directors. This is the bridge of Arta. In every bill of health service there is a provision for its administrative function. Undo this at some point. Physicians, dentists, chronic dialysis units, psychosocial rehabilitation programs and pharmacy issues. That is all in an amendment. Finally, because we must always be optimistic and say good news, we cannot refer to Professor Deuterium's 'GRECCO-19' research, the first published randomised study to investigate colchicin as a possible response to the coronary. It is a study carried out by Greek scientists - cardiologists, pneumonologists, infectiousists - demonstrating the sterile, truly, potential of our country's scientific community and medical staff. It is a great international distinction for the country. It has already attracted the interest of the global scientific community, and I think that such standards and models should not only emerge and become our object verbal, but should also be supported, in practice, by the head of the Ministry of Health and by the government as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, too. Please prepare the Step in order for SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance, Alexandros Meikopoulou, to speak. I would like to say here that I have asked the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Plearis, and I thank him for accepting it - to be able to schedule their time as well. I therefore say in advance that five Members will speak, namely Mr Meikopoulos, Mr Maravegias, Mr Constantopoulos, Mr Loverdes and Mr Xanthos, and then the parliamentary representative will speak. I'll beg the same thing to do...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u177	If I may, Mr President, I would like to say that Mr Xanthos has changed with Mrs Xenonanakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u178	I don't know that. Then Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou will speak. Apparently, there's been a change. I don't see her in my text. There's no problem. Alas! I said that there would be five Members speaking, and I would like to do that as an encouragement to the Members of Parliament in general, and not just for today, to let Members speak, who, while they stand up and speak, are simply seeing a parliamentary representative. They have obligations for parliamentarians, they have predetermined appointments, and it is important that they also be facilitated in this programming. Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is not, unfortunately, the dear colleague, Mr Simopoulos, who, fortunately, is again close to us unharmed. I owe him an answer, however, to the previous position he has taken and I would say that, if he or his colleagues had taken the initiative to establish a coronary glossary, it is much more likely that they would have been directly recruited as poster officers in the government's Presidency and in the final state rather than the SYRIZA had established special privileges for their recruitment via an APA. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, Minister, Mr Contozamanis, I see one thing: this stubborn reality has been insisting on and sabotaging not only governmental work but also government speech. I do not know if you too have noticed, but I think that the President of the Officers, Mr. Tsipras, has been tempted to take this as an initiative by the European Union. And what didn't you tell him? That he is not aware of procedures, that he has probably called for the statement of the 'ASTRAZENECA' or 'PFIZER' - I do not know which of the two companies - all of this. However, this proposal was adopted by the European Union itself today. So, before you rush to take responsibility for the responsibility of a politician, who also has experience and assume responsibility for his people, let us be very careful next time. To be clear, no one can deny the positive print left by these important donations - and I come to the bill - on the part of strengthening public health structures. But, Mr Contozamanis, there is a paradox here. It cannot be the most important contributions that have been made to the public health system for many months, in the middle of a pandemic, to come exclusively from private initiatives and not from the state. In other words, Mr Contozamani - and I believe you will agree - to base the resistance of the public health system on donations and to baptize this tactic as a successful management of the pandemic by the government. Because I like to speak with examples, I'll take you back to Volos. You know very well of the timely questions we have discussed with you this. The longest time since the first and second lockdowns you know very well that the case of the formation of the public health of Magnesia was much more a matter of the political offices of certain Members of the Co-Police than of the Ministry of Health or of the 5th Health Region. And don't tell me that this criticism is also based on populism or that it's wooden. How many times since the beginning of the pandemic have we not stressed in all ways that there is a need for mass free tests throughout the population? How many times have we not stressed that there is a need to form a regional dimension of the EGE so that we can have clear epidemiological surveillance and not be like today, blindly? How many times have we said that we need to recruit permanent staff in the National Health System immediately, that there is a need for private health structures to join effectively in the fight against COVID. Shall we give you more examples? How many doctors have currently been recruited at the “Achilopoulos” Hospital? How many people, even in the emergency procedure of COVID, are the procedures for filling the positions of doctors much faster? No one so far, Mr. Contozamani. Can I tell you something else? Since September - and indeed, I have asked you a parliamentary question, which has remained unanswered - I had struck the risk bell on the subject of strict monitoring of structures hosting special vulnerability populations. You said then that I am a prophet of evil, a prophet of evil. What's happened today? I'm guessing you heard about what happened at the "Surleigh" Canal Foundation, the nursing home? Thirteen people also got hospitalized and staff. Again in prophecies do we or is it a reality hard, to which at some point you must make your self - judgment? But now, I should also like to come to the arrangements of the bill on the vaccination centres. Since, after a demonstration of unprecedented exaggerated zeal, you have reached the time of operation of the vaccination centres, you are predicting their operation in primary health care structures. But I must inform you, Mr Contozamanis, that in practice what you are legislating is not the case. It also referred to the Standing Committee and the Intergroup Committee on the subject. It was agreed that the eighteen vaccination centres would function in primary health structures exclusively. What, however, is going on in practice? What's going on in everyday life? I will bring you back as an example of Magnesia, an area of two hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants. There are currently vaccination centres in Volos Secondary Hospital, Argalas Health Center and from the day before yesterday, from Monday and the Almyros Health Centre. What is the contribution of other health structures to vaccination planning? Where else exactly do you have a plan to activate such units? Vaccination is an act of primary health care and its natural area is primary health care. However, in order to function properly this plan you have and not to force the public hospitals in the country, which have lifted and continue to lift exclusively the burden of public health care in the middle of a pandemic, the burden of vaccination should be borne right at the moment, and the primary health structures should be incorporated. As we speak, Mr Kontozamanis, at the Argalatis Health Centre - which I have also tabled a parliamentary question, unanswered to date, I am waiting for your answer - there are two shifts in the morning and afternoon. Every day these two shifts try to serve over a hundred people. Of the eleven doctors who have a health centre, four of them are employed in vaccination centres uninterruptedly. The remaining six are called upon to cover all other incidents that occur at the health centre, on-calls and shifts at the regional hospitals administratively owned in the health centre. There are also six nurses employed on two shifts, from eight in the morning to ten in the evening, in order to serve the patient's tumor. Is this the vaccination plan you want to promote? Is that again the health staff, once again, to be on the burn out side? The very same images I describe are currently in the Almyros Health Center. At this point I would like to tell you something else important in relation to vaccination. I want you to reply to me what will happen with the population of severely disabled persons, the denounced and all those who are in practical inability to move from and to vaccination centres. Are there sufficient staffed units of the EGE, mobile health units, social structures of self-government? Is he in a co-operation right now? Is there a design to work? There are people who can't go to a vaccination centre. With the health crisis, Minister, I once again ask you to show the necessary seriousness. Proceed, even now, with greater speed in the population’s vaccination planning. Finally, fortify the public health system, hospitals, primary structures. They're good donations, but they have to work in addition. Today, in 2021, with five and a half thousand dead, we can still talk about the decisive factor in strengthening the public health system is the donations that companies will make. I'm sorry, but that's the reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, too. We continue with Mr Constantine Maraveya, Member of the New Democracy. Magnesia succeeds Magnesia. You have the floor, Mr. Maraveya.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. And destiny wanted me to follow my colleague and abbreviate, Mr. Meikopoulou, to inform him that in 2020 four pathologists, which means first-line doctors as far as pandemic is concerned, were permanent. Mr. Micopulus, don't hurry to answer me. Some were subsidiary doctors and were permanently resident because they were judged by the notice made. Two doctors were added. Not all of them were servants at Volos Hospital. Also, for a few months pediatric surgeon has been assisting Volos Hospital. The rest of the doctors' crises are under way and they're coming to completion. Since today another permanent pathologist has been serving at the Argalas Health Center. I am sorry because I, last Saturday, as a health fighter, was vaccinated at the Argalas Health Center and found that there is, Minister, absolute order and arrhythmia, of course, thanks to a great effort by the staff, which we all praise. From that point on, however, you realise that after a decade of crisis our country has passed, which has only had departures from the National Health System and the recruitment of people really with the dropping point - this is a common admission of all of us, and I think no one will say anything different, not only in this Chamber, but out of here - it is impossible for all these gaps to be covered, knowing how the giant of Greek bureaucracy is within a period of one and a half years and even to be heard by people who have been in the government for the four and a half years, almost five, previous years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u182	You've changed the legal framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u183	Don't interrupt, Mr. Micopulus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u184	Please. We listened carefully, but things heard that do not reflect reality. A few minutes ago you said from this Step that no doctor was permanently resident at Volos Hospital. What you're asking for is permanentization of health in public hospitals in the country. Well, it's done! Within this year, despite what adverse conditions there were that made everyone's lives difficult, therefore also the outcome of the crises, there were simulations of doctors and doctors' additions, and that is why we should all be a little more happy than two years earlier. There is therefore a full utilization of both natural and available vaccines and appointments. That is why the entire primary care plan has not been extended, which must of course raise the heavy burden of vaccination. We know, however, and this is not the responsibility of the Greek Government, that there are no quantities of vaccines which could be spread in a vaccine which has many specific characteristics as regards its preservation and maintenance and distribution. So there are too many particularities that make the primary structures more crowded, more centralised, that vaccinations should be carried out in the way that has been followed so far, so that a single dose of vaccine could not be lost to a fellow citizen. I think we should be proud of Magnesia for not really lost a single dose of vaccine. Nevertheless, it does not mean that we are only confined to vaccines to treat the coronary and to fight the pandemic. Of course, very recently, we also had the battle of Greek universities in exploiting colchicin to mitigate the impact on patients with COVID -19, an active substance of which is now internationally recognized. Nevertheless, in the country, but also here in the Greek Parliament, there are complaints, mainly from the Police Vice-Population Party, for non-existent omissions, but also allegedly intentional ones. I was reading a few days ago a post by Mr Polakis, who threatened, not least, the head of the Ministry of Health that in a few days' time he would not know where to hide. Bypassing in a very good mood, which I could call it the fat, my colleague and former Minister of Government of SYRIZA has been accusing the Government of not making massive imports of expensive and new medicines against the coronary. Previously, the Minister has also given me a scientific response. Of course, we all hope that soon we will have approvals of new, innovative medicines, regardless of their costs, which will be an additional weapon in the patronage against the pandemic. In order to be a little esteemed and heretic, however, I would like to address you with respect for the Civic Opposition and particularly Mr Polakis and remind them that a few years ago you yourself were sending to justice a former Minister of Health, Mr Loverdos, for the approval of new medicines. Assuming that, as has been done on the part of Officerial Response - the New Democracy does not characterise any politicians either to SYRIZA or KINAL - and we follow SYRIZA for a few minutes and say that Mr Paulakis insists on introducing these new drugs for his own reasons, tell us what conclusions we should draw. We would end up becoming, unfortunately, looters of our political opponents. However, since we are never going to become SYRIZA, the New Democracy insists that it stay away from such cases. That's why there's going to be some restraint, because, unfortunately, the fireworks are going back against you. After a long time, ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing a bill from the Ministry of Health, but it also has a longer-term orientation. This is a legislative initiative which focuses not only on solving emergency issues that have arisen from the pandemic, but also on wider issues in the health sector. In this sense, it is a bill different from the total eleven that we have worked out as a committee in recent months, that is, during the pandemic period. This list of the last eleven months one should, when one sees it, exclude legislation relating exclusively to sanctions for contracts and donations of public institutions, such as the "Narchor" and "Onassis" or the draft law on the PPP, which I had last summer and the honour to suggest. Today's eleventh in a series of bills in the 'post-coron' period is closer to these laws and is a combination, a hybrid from one ratification of infrastructure donations, but also provisions concerning the staff of the ERC. Obviously, special rules cannot be missed because of a coronary, which must certainly exist because of the extraordinary treaty in which we live, but certainly this time it is not the heart of this bill. And it is right that the Ministry of Health is gradually shifting its attention to other issues, because the health sector in our country has many different problems, which we must deal with carefully, beyond the COVID pandemic -19. Thus, we have the joy as a Greek state with this draft law to make use of an important donation of the 4m-euro Latsis Foundation for upgrading and equipping two departments of very important hospitals, the "Generalities" and the anti-cancer "Facilities" of Thessaloniki. In both cases it concerns investment in new infrastructures that the ESS needs immediately and will certainly serve for many more years. This long-term planning must therefore be made even more intensive in order to proceed with the complete modernisation of health units. Minister, in any case - I think - it is self-evident to all of us that structures on their own are not enough for this reason for the staff of the ESS - not only medical or nursing, but also scientific or helpful - it needs to be strengthened in every way, because we need people in the ESS, not only to operate the ESS, but also to take it a step further ahead. Therefore, you are right in the second part of the bill to bring in provisions for the support of staff such as Article 21 for the addition of physical medical and rehabilitation posts to health centres and rehabilitation centres and Article 34 for the extension of cleaning, storage and disinfection personnel contracts. Minister, during my recent term as a volunteer at Volos Hospital, I have seen from very close the day-to-day problems that arise in the operation of "Achilopoulos" by subsecution. On this, of course, I can agree...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u185	But finish because I hadn't put time in the first place and you have spoken more. Finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u186	You are right, Mr President, I conclude very quickly. Most importantly, however, I found the stress of the staff leading to all workers at the limits of their strength. And that is why you have a personal view from subscribing, as with other Magnesia colleagues, we asked you a question about the distribution of positions in the 5th Health Region. In conclusion, I would like to welcome the support of the Vice-President - even now - for the need to take measures to protect the low pensioners who have lost the EAS, with a Tsipras government, unfortunately. The current government, acting as a corrigendum, comes to support the most vulnerable part of the work and by personal intervention of the Prime Minister, the former beneficiaries of the CSR are being exempted from their participation in drugs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u187	Close, last sentence!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u188	We won't be in criticism of why the CSCE is gone. The difficult road is, of course, to vote in favour of the entire bill, because it has a number of positive provisions as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u189	I would ask that the Step be prepared in order for the MP of the Change Movement to take the floor, Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos. The word to you, Mr. Constantopoulos!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are before the gates of a third pandemic. We were therefore expecting the Ministry of Health's bill to reflect the vision of the evolution of the ESS, but also of a well-study - I would say - planning to deal with the pandemic. Unfortunately, Minister, we do not see such a bill today being discussed and, although - I would say - several regulations of the bill are necessary, the bill does not reflect an integrated strategy on the part of the Ministry of Health. Ladies and gentlemen, with the first part of the bill two private donations are awarded to the Greek State and we welcome them, that is, donations we welcome and reward them, once again in the pandemic, are shown as a supportive and complementary pillar of the funding of the ESS. That is why the Change-PASOK Movement has repeatedly proposed on the issue of donations, firstly, that a specific framework of incentives be established for donations, secondly, that there should be a mechanism to manage these donations transparently everywhere. So we will highlight their importance and that they are not short-term movements through a pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, the second part of the bill consists of arrangements for a number of issues, such as private clinics, the National Transplant Organisation, the medical staff of the ESS, the administration of health regions, the National Vaccine Programme. Our rapporteur, Mr Poulas, expressed - I would say - our positions in detail on the regulation of the bill. However, I would like to say on three points: first, as regards the implementation of the National Vaccine Programme, we have, ladies and gentlemen, a worthy National Committee on Vaccines. However, ladies and gentlemen, political planning is lacking, I would say that it does not exist. According to yesterday's figures, there have been two hundred thirty-three thousand vaccinations, with a hundred ninety-six thousand fellow citizens having received a dose of vaccine. I mean, what should be pointed out here? That we are now over 2% of the population and I would say exactly on the European Union's average. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we see? That the vaccination program in our country is going slower than the government has assured us. Secondly, a joint statement, ladies and gentlemen, is the irresponsible ERC. There are serious issues relating to the planning of the vaccination process and we see that there are significant weaknesses. Where? Administering vaccination centres, adequacy of vaccine doses, vaccination in the most affected areas, especially in island Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the elderly are invited to move from one island to another and in many areas - I would say - long distances. So, here, what does it show up? The government's incomplete political planning is indicated. At the same time, it should be stressed that there are major deficiencies in medical, nursing, administrative and logistical infrastructures. What is seen is, I would say, conservative pluralism followed by the government, and it should be corrected. In fact, not all of this results from the availability of vaccines and from the European market. It also emerges from the fact that the government has not taken care to support the ESS when it has to with resources and human resources. We have proposed to you since the beginning of the pandemic, Minister, the development of a first-line network with a pillar of primary health care and mobile workshops. You didn't hear. We suggested that mass tests be carried out on the population and the prescribing of the EEAS and their justification. You didn't hear us. We have proposed the increase of the ICMs and the integration of the people of the ERM, the people of the first line of battle, the heavy and unhealthy and the granting to them and the gift of Christmas. You didn't hear. We have tabled three amendments today. Make them acceptable. And, of course, as a minimum recognition for these people of primary care and health care in the hospitals. In fact, for the heavy and unhealthy people on the ESS, we have brought you here on several occasions in Parliament and we have tabled an amendment to you. You did not accept it, you never brought it to reality. What do we see? Unfortunately, the government often chooses to hide behind the scientists. We see ballasts, manoeuvres and microdismands, but the problems, ladies and gentlemen, are here. We've submitted a lot of these to you. I would also like to say that we understand that, at the moment, the European environment is not what must be done because the profits of large pharmaceutical companies are being promoted against citizens. The European Commission's discussions with 'ASTRAZENCA' are concerned. Citizens are being watched with anguish and pharmaceuticals are proposing profit, as I said. However, the European Union had to ensure that vaccines were adequacy. At the same time, however, the planning chosen by the government, Minister, leads with mathematical accuracy to a summer of deep recession in tourism, focusing on transport. And even they are under enormous pressure for another year, those who lifted the burden in the summer of 2020. Today, contagiousists are talking about thirty to fifty thousand active cases in the country, but we hear that the operation of retail trade will be reviewed. Here, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible for the market to open up as a physarmonica. Now it works with two hours, your conclusions. But let us not hide behind our fingers, things are very difficult for that and we must prevent demagogy and populism. No one, of course, can ostracize. But it is up to the government here to speak with its small and large sectors honestly and to reach a common solution. Because other possibilities of the multinational and other border stores, border stores that are also the backbone of the Greek economy and need our support. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to stress that the regulations of the EOPY draft law do not bring any significant improvements. Here there is a blurred landscape, specifically with expenditure on medicines, hospitals, diagnostic centers, how much it costs physico-therapies, which medications pay for clawback. What are we asking? Transparency and clarity everywhere. Minister, you do not bring any regulation so that we are aware of the distribution of resources in the system. There's a mess I'd say in command and operation with the EPPY data. Also for transplants - and I close - we expect a specialised bill to break prejudices and to form a culture of conscientiousness in organ and blood donation. Unfortunately, our country has one of the lowest donor rates, and that is what we believe should be concerned about and giving us solidarity in the common direction by resolving this problem. Finally, I would say positively that it is the recommendation for qualified doctors, but the ESS, Minister, must be shielded with permanent staff, and we expect the notices you have announced to do so. To conclude, one observation: the ESS is tested and has little tolerance. To lift the burden, what does it need? It needs a staff and resources armour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, too. I would ask that the Step be prepared to get the floor for the New Democracy MEP Yannis Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill which is firstly about - rather, first of all - so that my son, who is very strict in these wordings, does not correct me - first of all concerns the ratification of the donations made by the Latsi Foundation, and secondly, the strengthening of the public health system. It is an issue which should be voted on by all the sides of the House. I do not see any objection to that from anyone. As I will also agree with the dear friend, Michael Katrin, the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, who proposed that all the wings of the House vote on the other appropriate measure contained in the bill, which is to provide free medicines to those of our fellow citizens who have been cut off by the ESS, I was referring to the ESS. The ESS hopefully will not be cut to anyone and there will be to help all Greek citizens from now on and more in these conditions of uncertainty and nightmare called COVID -19. However, I come to the point of the ESS to say that my personal view - to strengthen Mr Katrin's argument - is not only to give free medicines to these fellow citizens who have been cut off by the ESS. When things get normal - I hope soon - and when the Greek State is able to have these possibilities, we will have to in some way seek out courses so that this aid called CSR can come back in some form to these fellow citizens who are actually suffering. The other day, I was taken by a lady. He's got 350 euros. How to live a man who gets a pension of 350 euros? Of course, there is the question of pensions, which is too big. I would say that pensions are perhaps the biggest problem faced by this government and still has not solved it. I hope that he will soon be able to resolve it in the right direction because although he inherited it from the previous government and even though he fell into the pandemic it had to be faster. I'll agree with that. We deal with it every day. The awarding of pensions is a huge problem. But I come to the subject of the pandemic. I heard this morning that there was a great debate here in the House, and there were also questions and conflicts between the parties' representatives on the pan-educational rally which was in progress until just now outside the House. Should we go back to self-evident? The virus is stuck everywhere. The virus sticks to the churches, sticks to the shops, sticks to the House, sticks to the rallys, sticks to our homes. The larger the crowding and the less the measures are respected, the greater the spread of the virus. Do we still have to discuss this in this country? I don't get it. Everyone makes the choice of what would prefer to stick more, 'the means of transport', says the other one, 'do not stick'? Of course they stick to the means of transport. When the measures are not respected and they are on each other, of course, they will stick. That is why we are taking steps to limit this problem as much as possible. This self-evidently I fear that everyone presents it as it suits him. But there is no populism and demagogy in dealing with such a serious problem, the biggest problem facing the country and the whole world in the last fifty, sixty, seventy years. Anyone who has not understood it yet and continues to speak with the same logic of the past, I fear, is out of place and time. Are we still trying to find a way to deal with self-evidently? The government is not telling you that it has done everything well in dealing with the pandemic. Of course there have been mistakes. Did anyone know what's right and what's wrong before this nightmare starts? Have we been through it before and had experience of how we should deal with it? Unfortunately, we have been managed, but we accept this great test, we cannot do it differently. We happened to manage the biggest problem facing the country after World War II. And so far, despite the huge problems that exist, despite the six thousand or so dead, my mind never leaves the six thousand dead - despite the fact that too many of our fellow men are fighting and are in intensive care units and others may be reintroduced... If I were Mr. Contozamanis or Mr. Kiklias with what they face every day, I don't know if I would sleep at night. I don't even want to be a flea in the crust of Contozamani. But he's having to get through as much as he can. Why? Why? Because it has no right for the state to refuse hospitality to anyone. It's obligated, because otherwise there's no state. Not to happen what we have seen happen in Italy. Even London, which has the best health system in the world - in Europe, at least - is on its limit. It's falling apart from the pressure she's getting. Can we get to this pressure, too? I hope not. We've kept up all this time, these ten months of the nightmare. I hope that we will then stand. But here's no need for grumbling. It takes a lot of work, a lot of attention and we always need to be ready to deal with adversities, which we do not know in advance what will be. We only have a little more knowledge of this big problem. I would just like to point out two things because I heard them before, and because I have to finish my time, so that the dear President doesn't pull my ear. The first concerns the repayable advance. I heard a speaker say it before. He's got a point. We need the Treasury to see it again with the repayable advance. He called me, before, a man of shopkeeper who was in despair. He lives in Peristeri and has a small shop in the center of Athens. These people are in despair. We need to see it again. The second thing I am going to give is that we are going to avoid over-optimistic statements. No one can appreciate where the pandemic is going. As the Prime Minister has said, we live in uncharted waters. In these unpapered waters, neither over-optimistic nor over-optimistic assessments fit. With prudence, with much work to deal with as best as we can with this nightmare, which is not either New Democracy or SYRIZA or KINAL. It's a nightmare of all Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u193	And we thank Mr. Loverdo. Now is the reason for SYRIZA's MP - a Progressive Alliance, Ms. Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can understand the need for New Democracy Members to support the government. I can understand even trying to find excuses where there are problems. I think, however, that neither of us can distort reality. I would like to begin - because I have heard too much today from colleagues in the Co-Police - on the subject of the free medical coverage of low-pensions and former beneficiaries of the CSCE. In fact, it is the first government of SYRIZA - and Mr Xanthos is here - that guaranteed - as ministers for health and labour, the free medical coverage for the low pensioners of the former CSCE. In fact, second, in 2020 the New Democracy Government, in the middle of a pandemic, gave an extension to this pharmaceutical coverage, which expired on 31 December 2020. In fact, thirdly, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has taken an amendment on December 21st, which we discussed, Mr Secretary of Health you are present, the urgent bill of health, saying too many fellow Members from this Step, that to God you accept our amendment, make the corresponding legislative improvement in the bill, because these people will be left uncovered in the coming months in the middle of a pandemic. The amendment was not accepted. He didn't sweat the ear of any government minister. What was the result? It's been a week and it's been a mess on TV. Because that's how the government is finally mobilising. In the morning shows, people and rightly, retired people came out with anguish, saying they stay uncovered. It had to be headlined in "AGEY", to make statements, to be made by the other opposition parties, to get the prime Prime Minister out on December 28 - one week later - to announce on Twitter, proving the ministers - in the manner that exists, unfortunately, at this time in the New Democracy - and to say: "Oh, the miracle will be covered for another year". Okay, I'll accept it was a failure, a bad plan. There was no corresponding sensitivity and empathy. Well, not trying to make our black white one more time now. And when? When it's been a month. Today it is January 28th and now you are bringing legislation, and it should have been the first regulation once the House opened. So this is to restore the way things are. Welcome even now, and of course we support Article 3. But not go out and have another opposition to opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, the policy of the New Democracy in dealing with the pandemic has three features. The first is the total lack of a plan. Our rapporteur has said so, as our Parliamentary spokesman, all the Members of the broader opposition, repatriations, mistakes, oliguria, a number of problems that unfortunately do not take place. We are constantly seeing the same recurring problems. We have also seen them with regard to the treatment of pandemic, and unfortunately now also in the planning and implementation of the vaccination programme. The second feature is political purposes, because it is political strategy and should not be supported by the National Health System. It's not a failure, it's not a mistake. And I would like to remind Mr Maraveya, who spoke before the New Democracy, that the government of SYRIZA was the first to hire doctors again after the memoranda that had stopped and within the memoranda. I would also like to remind you that with Mr Blonde and Mr Polakis we had scheduled ten thousand recruitments, Minister - we had guaranteed one by one by one - and your government frozen them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u195	With our own...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u196	So the pandemic had to come to begin - supposedly - the medical and nursing staff had to be strengthened again, but unfortunately not with permanent doctors. That's the reality. And we tell you if there is no feasibility, why don't you hire permanent staff to the National Health System? Why was all this frustration all this time? I am continuing to say that political feasibility is not limited to non-supporting the National Health System. We see it in the way you face the economy, the small and medium-sized enterprises, now that you have started the debate on how to reduce support for small and medium-sized enterprises, we see it at the risk of one in two shops and the small and medium-sized enterprises cannot cope with it in six months. We see that you do not support workers. We have heard Mr Mitsotakis go to the Ministry of Labour to announce a counter-working bill that comes to harm the working hours, wages and employee rights in the middle of a pandemic and the change in the insurance system. Mr. Loverdos said about the low-pensioners. I would remind you that the New Democracy has abolished the thirteenth pension and the New Democracy is now coming to bring this insurance bill with the privatisation of subsidiary insurance, which the first victim - because the Pissaridis report is already talking about efficiency problems - will be the low pensioners. That is to speak openly and honestly between us. The third feature - and I will close with it - is that you are constantly investing in communication policy, at the expense of the truth, at the expense of the result and substance. When you do this on health issues, you have another responsibility, Minister. You are creating conditions of complacentness in society. You had invested so much for months in the vaccinations. We all support vaccines, we all support the need for vaccination, but this cannot in any case be an element of reassurance and pretext for not having the necessary controls, prevention measures in the workplace, public transport, the closed structures that we see the problems, so that the National Health System is not supported and much more so that you too will not give the battle with the other forces in Europe for the proposal that our President, Alexis Tsipras, said, so that there will finally be a European-level negotiation on patents, so that it can finally be released and that the European pharmaceutical industry can produce the quantities that are needed and make a fair and rapid distribution of vaccination in all countries. You were laughing at me. You said that all this was a firework, but yesterday the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe came and proved that you were firing the fireworks, such as the ones on the certificate and you are not giving the battle where the critical is. So what is needed today is a plan, is support for the National Health System and, of course, not policies that come to strike the real economy and society itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, too. I would ask that the Step be prepared to take the floor by the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Thanos Ploris. Mrs Kefala from New Democracy will then speak, Mr Xanthos from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mrs Asmakopoulou from the Greek Solution, and then Mr Karathanasopoulos as a Parliamentary spokesman for the JRC - whom I thank him - because they agreed that some fellow Members should be involved in the planning of their work. Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, because this is where we said to start by telling truths, to see what all these truths are. Right now we've been a year since we've actually had the look of pandemic. Somewhere in December it was the subject that it had raised in China. Within one year all the governments of Europe since January have been preparing to face the pandemic. And because the figures are often vague, they must be said, to see what the government has done this year in the three areas that you often mention, but without presenting the evidence. In the health section, in a year about five hundred 50 beds of ITH became almost three hundred beds of meth. I hear some arithmetic alchemys, particularly from Mr Polakis, which says "after we had six hundred crossings with COVID and did not raise the number, it means that we had 100% completeness, but the beds were six hundred." It's like there's no other disease a person can be hospitalized for. A total of three hundred IF beds have become. There wasn't a fellow man who needed a Clinic IF and didn't have a Clin IF. When you handed over five hundred sixty eight IF beds - if I'm not mistaken - we had more than doubled the IF beds. We had a 10% increase in staff, both with permanent recruitment and with subsidiary staff. "Auxiliary or permanent staff..." is a conversation of another kind. Evidently, subsidiary staff also helps the pandemic. You don't have to be permanent, so you can deal with things. It is another subject, although how, we will see, which ones will be permanentized, which ones with legislative intervention are permanent. But it's 10% more personal. Hundreds of thousands of people in the National Health System. We had 25% more expenditure on 2020 on the National Health System. And yes, we're proud of doctors, nurses, but also of the decisions made by the government, which after a year and two waves didn't hold down the system. The system worked. Problem had other large European countries with much better National Health System. Belgium has been doing its homework in Germany. Germany itself had to go to very tough restrictive measures. London was unable to manage the situation. Spain, Italy and the same. And Greece, which was at the lowest European average, managed within one year to give the patient who suffered from COVID the treatment he had. Apparently, there was also a restriction of other scheduled surgery. Because I hear that criticism too. On pandemic, scheduled surgery that wasn't surgery immediately, it wasn't life surgery, they went back. And here comes the whole mistake you're saying. You come here and blame the private sector. SYRIZA's main colleagues, the planning was for the private sector to take a large part - which took - of the non-COVID incidents, precisely to manage the public health system the COVID incidents. So, what's the harm when someone can get the surgery to the private clinic to have an empty bed so that someone suffering from COVID could be in the National Health System? With the private sector there was full co-operation in the IF beds. You're lying to that, too. You reported to us that it was not right to agree to the Ministry's agreement. The point is, however, that all private sector ITH beds have been made available to the National Health System, with a certain amount of money we pay. So the whole conversation about the order is a conversation that's out of order. Because whatever beds the National Health System needs from the private health system takes. Your obsession is why not all of COVID's. But the point is not to manage COVID the public health system. Of course, if you don't need beds and you don't have the public health system to get from the private for COVID, but in the first phase, you'll have the management. At the same time, you are talking about public transport. Of the eight hundred fifty buses in Athens we went to the thousands of two hundred fifty. Of the two hundred thirty-five in Thessaloniki, we went to four hundred thirty. You haven't put a bus anywhere for four years. In terms of education, we had tele-education and managed the country to have tele-educated and operate a whole platform - except for the first week in which there was a problem - and to have education in these circumstances for the Greeks. Throughout this part we had support in the private sector and in the economy and with a bill that's coming now. Twenty-four billion euros in 2020 and 7 billion euros in the first quarter of 2021. In total, the government became an employer of all private employees who were suspended. He became a lender through the repayable advance on all the firms that had a problem and became a quasi-minor, because he pays the rents of all these businesses. So one full coverage, as much as we could with the possibilities that we had, within a year, both the National Health System and the financial support section. Obviously, opposition is to criticise, but what we are discussing did not take place in four years of governance, nor in normal conditions. It's been over in a year. We are now coming to the bill we are discussing. We also heard that on the left for donations. It has been heard that it is the state's obligation to provide these services, so donations show that it is a failure. I mean, excuse me. Since ancient times, they were donating to the state, dying people and leaving their inheritance to the state. Because there's an obligation to provide a state service does it mean that it won't get a donation to make it part of this service? And right and good for the Latsi Foundation that comes here and makes this donation and like all other institutions. I also heard a completely petty criticism that, because they put their name on donations, they also have a profit. Mercy! It was said by Mr. Villardo. So, the institutions that exist and operate, the Union, the 'Narch' Foundation, the Latsis Foundation, are waiting for this? Do all these donations to get a sign? Aren't we insulting those donors themselves? It is a donation that the National Health System is happy to make use of in order for the citizen to have a better service. And usually, what citizen? The one who is in a more difficult position and cannot go to private health. So this bill, in its first leg, has the part of this very useful donation and at the same time has a number of arrangements. Here we come to what the dear Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou said. He started truths and lies, but it didn't start with the first truth. That we are all discussing this because SYRIZA has abolished the ESS. Indeed, PASOK was the party that voted for the ESS and SYRIZA was the party that abolished the ESS. So any discussion from here on the subject is that by your own political decision you abolished the ESS. In fact, you have reached the point of criticising the Ministry of Labour and this is the regulation of the Ministry of Health. Most of the questions you have asked were addressed to Mr Brutsi, and this is a regulation which is right to come from the Ministry of Health and without any problem. As of 28 December, we said that it would continue for next year and the regulation will be adopted. But you are responsible for the fact that we are discussing this - by abolishing the ESS - are now coming to criticise us whether we are voting on it in January if we have voted on your amendment. The fact is that the Mitsotakis Government, which has not abolished the ESS, unlike the SYRIZA Government, comes and gives this possibility to the people who have lost the ESS. Now we're going to another conversation that has been developed, which is probably there you're doing what you don't understand. What was Mr. Tsipras' proposal? Do you remember her? The proposal by Mr Tsipras was that we will in fact have the patents - this issue has not been voted or discussed anywhere, it has only been said that the impurities must be removed so that other plants can be produced - and it was also mentioned in Greece, which, unfortunately - cannot produce vaccine, there is no vaccine production plant in Greece. And Mr. Xanthos will say here that Greece has a chance to produce a vaccine! Mr. Floor of the Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association said so. It takes seven, eight months with conversions to produce. Again, what is Europe talking about? He's talking about something that companies themselves are talking about. Do you think that if ASTRAZENECA or PFIZER can produce the vaccine elsewhere, since this money will get it again, they will be paid for by taking the vaccine - it has not been argued from anywhere that the European Union will come to take the patent to make it its own property and not pay anything, the issue is production and how it will become more - they would not produce? There's an attempt to remove some impurities. No relationship, however, with what Mr Tsipras said. In fact, what Mr Mosialos and Mr Mitsotakis said before they even started, is what Mr Mitsotakis had said. Mr. Tsipras came much later and said something else entirely different to satisfy a left audience. I also heard the SYRIZA's rapporteur say that with Mr von Wogau. 600/2019 abolished the earlier decrees. You didn't remove them. They coexist. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u199	We didn't say otherwise.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u200	You said that he abolished the...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u201	Legislation has been reformed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u202	He's reformed. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Mr President, I shall also take my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u203	However, 235 and 517 remained. And that makes sense. Since these decrees have remained, there are constantly issues on which regime it applies, for example, when it goes to an extension or anything else and such arrangements are that solve the problem because they coexist. I wish you'd complete this reform, Mr. Xanthi, and not have the earlier decrees, we'd have a single one. It would make sense. But that's not what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u204	They're photographic devices.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u205	No cameras or anything. They are provisions that solve problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u206	Photographers! That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u207	Now let's go further. He's been picking up a conversation since this morning. So here comes the irresponsibility of SYRIZA, which we need to discuss. At some point you must be responsible for coming here and saying what restrictive measures we need to take. You can't satisfy everyone. The government has a specific principle: we recognize that any mobility that exists is a mobility that also leads to an increase in cases. So what do we say? We are trying to limit mobility as much as possible and, at the same time, to have measures everywhere. In this sense and in a debate with the Committee on Infectious Substances, measures are being taken and how trade will function and how the citizen will move and how the citizen exercises a number of rights. Because here we can imagine that the only right is the right to assembly, that there are no other rights. To move the citizen, he must send sms. It is a sovereign right to be able to circulate freely on Greek territory. To exercise his religious right, he has closed the congregations with decisions made by this government and has been judged on the other side. Isn't that a constitutional sovereign right? To work, he could have been suspended. Primary constitutional right to work. In order to be able to do any activity in his social life, he has been confined. And you come here and you have taboo the subject of the meeting. How? Say, we want to have ten thousand people because they are above public health. Say what Mr. Gregorydis said doesn't fit. He said the man here said he doesn't fit into meetings. But you don't dare say that. You come here to criticise the government that with its opening it may increase cases. And you applaud that. It's today's website photo. You welcome that. What's that? It's a world that's on each other today. Say and take the political responsibility that: We want this because we believe that in the balance "public health or protest" protest prevails, and therefore, as a political body SYRIZA we accept an increase in cases, we accept people in the ICMs, but we want everyone to protest and meet freely."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u208	This is called extortion against democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u209	So what do we say? As for all rights based on public health, as in commerce, as happened in the freedom of movement of citizens, so is the meetings that had arrived not allowed, we say they can be held with up to 100 people. You broke it. You'll tell me you officially violated the parties on November 17th. You're not counting anything. This one, however, is your creation. And watch something to complete, because you want to live in a lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u210	What about university police? What about the sanitary persecutions? A misinterpretation was your whole placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u211	So we come in a clear way and say - and we will come and discuss them in a few days, in a few weeks, I don't know exactly when the bill will come - what we said, that we want a class at universities. Our programme is being implemented for which the Greek citizens have voted for us. We said there'd be security. We said that there would be no asylum, as we knew and said that Greek universities would operate like European universities. We will not tolerate situations coming and spreading bumps. We will not accept situations for a mayor or any citizen to read a banner telling him "Where is he your father?" These may be tolerated by you, who photographically legislated for Xeros and Koufantina and who are your executives signing texts in favour of them. There are six legislative interventions that you voted for that were six legislative favor interventions of “17 November” in the building of a sentence, abolition of Type III prisons, being able to obtain permissions that they could not take, being able to go to rural prisons, reducing penalties to the director of a terrorist organisation, and a failure to have someone carrying explosive devices, a crime that the one recruits terrorists. Settings we changed them. You had brought regulation to be able to leave prison with only 80% disability if you have multiple life-threatening symposia with ten years of construction, photography of Xeros. So, ladies and gentlemen, we come here and say that within a year this government with the help of the Greek people, but also of all those who are in the National Health System, has done everything possible to ensure that all our fellow citizens have the care they need. He financially supported all the people who came into trouble because of this pandemic. And it's time for the Census to understand that it's not a 3% party that went and closed the eye in groups that were smiling with terrorism. It is a Civic Opposition that must finally take responsibility and tell people that the coronary is stuck everywhere and that is why all rights must be exercised in the light of public health.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u212	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u214	I've seen you, Mr. Villardo, wait a minute. As far as I understand it, you want the floor for a statement that you cannot accept the names of donors and benefactors. If there's any distortion, I'll give you the floor for a minute. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, the distortion is about what my colleague said about a micropolitical criticism. I don't accept it, because I've never done anything for me here, and I'd be ashamed to say it. My colleague simply does not know - I do not think he did so on purpose - what 'naming rights' means, which are very widespread in the United States, pays people. If she reads a little, she will see that she is a kind of financial transaction, of a type of advertising, where a company - or other kind of organisation - buys the right to view her name for a period of three to twenty years usually. It's well known, it's for granted. I just imagine that my colleague doesn't know that, which is why he told me about a minor political criticism. I also said that there are many others who make donations and do not come to the House with a contract that binds the state and who want to put their name on it. I mentioned the example of Mr Marinakis, Mrs Fragou and the company 'ION SA', who donated ITH beds to a Piraeus hospital costing one and a half million and did not bring their name here. And finally, if my colleague doesn't believe it, let him go to a hospital to say he wants to put his name in the hospital and ask how much it costs. They'll tell him, I guess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u216	I'd like to ask you something of personal interest. In other words, you don't argue to be called “NOSEI” Cardiosurgery Center, I imagine. You do not disagree to be called “Stavros Niarchos Foundation”. That's another thing you said about America. This is Greece, it's not America.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u217	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u218	Not even for the Metsovian Polytechnic, I imagine. This country has relied too much on the great donations of great benefactors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u219	Of course, I do not disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u220	Well done, that's what I wanted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u221	Just a minute, let me finish it. I just said it's a transaction. That's what I mentioned about America.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u222	That's not a transaction. Pull the word out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u223	It's a transaction. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u224	You know, you're causing me now because I happened to be the then State Secretary that I ratified by law, i.e. here in Parliament I defended this great donation of this great jewelry for all the Greek people called “Stavros Niarchos Foundation”, with this amazing library and this amazing Lyric scene of the great and small hall. I believe that we must all agree and praise it, so that we can get others who can help our state, which means helping Greek society. I hope we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u226	Mr Gregoriadis, you have the floor to explain what the staff lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u227	It's not personal, Mr. President. I believe that my dear Mr. Ploris has misunderstood my words. He obviously didn't understand what I meant. I won't need a minute. Mr President, it is clear that no intelligent man would claim that under certain conditions he is not transmitted and the coronary is not stuck. The coronary in open spaces sticks in the way it sticks in open spaces, i.e. so that we all understand it the same way it sticks to Ermos, when it is one and a half million fellow citizens to shop, in the same way there will be the same risk that it will stick if we gather one and a half million here in front of our Parliament to protest. What I said is that two and a half months after the Polytechnic School, from the anniversary of the murder of Alexander Gregoropoulos and from the announcement of the decision of the Golden Dawn trial, it is clear that despite the tragic mistakes of the leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection, Mr. Chrysochide, who has made hair buckets of our own protesters, the very seven MPs or the protesters of the Communist Party of Greece with the police, we are, however, in a position to know scientifically that neither much of the police have fortunately been infected nor any of the members of the Communist Party, or of the seven MPs, that is, we have become hair buckets with the newly created team of the Greek Police, which Mr Chrysochide sent there. That's what I said, dear colleague. Mr President, that is what I said. I'm talking about rehabilitation now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u228	The clarification was given, I think. Mr Skourletis has the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to remind you that the legacy, the donation of the New Democracy Government to the Greek people and pensioners, was to start dismantling the CSCE slowly. It was a clear commitment which you inherited from us, gentlemen of the New Democracy. If you have a different view, now that we are outside the memorials, why did we take you back, "if we're not working", reinstate the CSCE. Secondly, these about 'the Syrians and the terrorists' were heard in 2012 and before 2015. We have heard the 'catch buildings'. This propaganda is known. This black propaganda food, you can leave it aside. SYRIZA ruled four and a half years and was the most democratic government after '74, with respect for freedoms and the widening of rights. But you are now strangling democracy and the bans you want to introduce with the regulations and the enforcement of the police within the universities, but also with the brutal blackmail that the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has just described. He says: "Look to see, on the one hand, is the terror of pandemic and on the other hand your rights. Choose, choose.’ No, well, it's not like that. You won't strangle the workers' rights, you won't slap a few pieces of money, you won't fire people in the name of the pandemic. We're returning this blackmail to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute. As a parliamentarian, I have a tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u231	Okay, you have a minute, but don't start a dialogue, because they're gonna ask for another minute later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u232	Since they were not personal, I would not speak to Mr. Villardos or Mr. Gregoriadis who spoke to matters personally. I would like to say, however, overall, that we disagree, Mr Villardo, on what you are saying. That's where you tell America about the companies, the companies are actually advertised. This is where we say institutions, which have no benefit. So there's a basic disagreement. Mr Gregoriadis, I understand the explanation you have given, but again I think that as you say it creates an issue, because when you say from the Step of the House that there was no problem there, you are creating a expectation that there will be no. But I accept what you said. I now close, Mr President, by addressing Mr Skourletis because I have heard him. Mr SYRIZA spokesman, I said six reforms that you did and you voted as a government in favour of 17 November. Clearly. Get over here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u233	Aren't you embarrassed? Get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u234	Bring over the then Minister of Justice...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u235	Get Chrysangi Pappa first!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u236	Please, calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u237	You'll go and say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u238	How do you talk like that? What right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u239	Finish it, Mr. Pleari.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u240	He won't let me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u242	Please, Mr. Igoumenides...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u243	It is disgraceful for democracy that you accuse the Civic Opposition in such a way! Get it back!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Skourlet, calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, he can't, he's not here...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, you have a duty to protect the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u247	Mr. Skourletis, if you want later, you'll have the floor. Let him finish, though. As far as you are concerned, Mr Igoumenides, you do not have the opportunity. There is a parliamentary representative and you must not underestimate him. If there's a matter, he'll ask why and he'll take it. And you can tell Mr. Skourletis exactly what you want. Mr. Plori, you have the floor calmly to complete this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u248	Take it easy, all right? Don't confuse the roles. He is no longer Mr Skourletis Secretary of the Central Committee of SYRIZA. He is a parliamentary representative. There's a class in Parliament if he wants to take the floor. I say in particular: abolishing Type III prisons, allowing terrorists to go to rural prisons. The sentence frame that was ten to twenty years for the director of a terrorist organization became five to fifteen. The recruitment of terrorists is a blow. By a felony, there's been a blow to going and recruiting terrorists. I have a problem with the possession of explosive devices and transport. Get someone who knows the law, tell me why you did it. I'm talking to you with laws and you're talking to me with insults!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Skourlet, in peace, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u250	I'm really sorry, because Mr. Ploris is supposed to be a lawman and has given a vow. He's supposed to be legal. It should therefore understand that the rule of law applies...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u251	How do you talk like that? What does "suppose" mean? What right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Pappa, please. You can't interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Pappa, please. Wear your mask first. You have no right to speak. Please, everyone has the responsibility of his words. Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u254	Photographic devices were not available for anyone and none. The rule of law is once condemned for what one has done and from there on is not constantly being tried. The avenger of anyone, depending on how they understand it, is outside the legal culture and I am very sorry that the honourable Member cannot understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u255	Continue after this interruption with tensions. That is what parliamentary democracy is all about, and that is the masterpiece of democracy. We are now continuing with a normal political speech and I call on the New Democracy MP, Mrs Maria - Alexandra Head. Mrs. Head, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law we dominate the donation of the Joint Benefit Foundation "Joannis Latsis" for the reorganisation, renovation and upgrading of the Emergency Department of the General Hospital of Georgios GENMAS". In addition, we dominate the donation of Ms Marianna Latsis to rebuild part of the existing building of the Hellenic Anticancer Society in Pylia, so that the daily hospitalization of the Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki can be carried out, a facility in need of northern Greece. Unfortunately, the previous government, the SYRIZA government, was identified by the stateism, the refusal of private initiative and investment. Under these circumstances and if a private person wanted to do something good for his country, this could not be implemented. Any donations were either going too far or staying on paper. We like these initiatives, we welcome initiatives that we need and which are, in essence, an important asset in the armoring, upgrading and modernising health services to citizens. Hundreds of patients are served daily at the ‘C’ Hospital. Genuine’. Unfortunately, however, weaknesses such as the lack of proper conditions in medical and nursing areas and the failure to operate machinery in the Emergency Department require improvements. The Latsis Foundation, with its assistance, plays an important role in the renovation and upgrading of this section. The "Family" hospital on the other hand takes care of about sixty thousand tumor patients per year. Similarly, with the donation of Ms Latsis and the Hellenic Anticancer Society, the hospital acquires a decentralised daily hospitalisation unit for tumor patients. Thank you for practically supporting the country's health structures. Then, with regard to the rest of today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, we are introducing important regulations reflecting the intensive effort of the government to deal effectively with the coronary pandemic. We extend until 31 December 2021 the full discharge from the participation of the pharmaceutical expenditure of those beneficiaries who have been definitively deprived of the benefit of the Social Solidarity Fund, the EASA, which was abolished by SYRIZA. We cover the costs incurred by the EEA with exceptional aid from the State budget. We thus maintain the favourable status that has been in place and in 2020 for hundreds of thousands of low-pensions people, who will have their medicines for free this year. As late as February, it is possible for public health structures to cover emergency needs by recruiting subsidiary medical staff, making new hospital facilities available and setting up beds. The public hospitals in the country will continue to be supported by medical and other personnel. We allow doctors licensed to pursue a profession, who have submitted up to 15 December 2020 a request for specialisation, to come directly to hospitals for the preference of their specialization applications and to relieve anesthesiologists of the obligation to fulfil a countryside service so that we directly serve all the anaesthetic clinics and the ICUs in our hospitals. We are speeding up selection and placement procedures for ERC doctors to strengthen the public health system with permanent medical staff. We establish the six-day operation of vaccination centres from seven in the morning to ten in the evening for an initial period up to 30 September 2021, in order to ensure the smooth operation of the vaccination programme “LEVEROY” and all our fellow citizens who wish to be vaccinated, to do so with methodicity and design. This is our priority so that we return gradually to normality. Ladies and gentlemen, the ESS day after day is being upgraded, the structures are being strengthened, the services offered are improving, health recruitment is overcrowded and throughout the pandemic, beyond the great effort of the Greek Government and the state, many individuals in practice, in their contribution, have become sick in this whole project. The COVID pandemic -19 is the most important challenge for our country in recent years. Government and citizens have managed this pandemic since the first day together. I must first as a doctor and then as a Member of Parliament point out the important work carried out both by the Ministry of Health and by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, who, strong and united in this difficult historical situation, is doing its utmost to demonstrate reflexively, seriousness and above all ability, but also rapid adaptability to dynamic situations, such as the ones we are experiencing, which are constantly changing. Our primary goal was and remains to get everyone healthy through this battle with the invisible enemy. In no way - but, in any case - we must not relax. The beginning of the end of the pandemic is visible, but until the final end we must show caution and wisdom. Until a significant proportion of the Greek population is vaccinated, we should continue to be careful that the sacrifices we have all made are not in vain. Our great ally in this war is the vaccine. It is a difficult period, but through the difficulties we will get more united, stronger and more committed to the target, and as vaccination will go ahead, we will all find that the vaccine is safe and everyone will realize that this is the only solution. The vaccine is the only way to get life back into our hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u257	Thank you too for keeping time. Mr Xanthos, Member of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u258	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think that in the current phase of this multiple crisis, in fact the recipe is to dynamise the political climate, to have moves of authoritarianism, repression, to reduce democratic rights, to intimidation and terrorism, then you have no idea. The public health crises in their history are dealt with in a social and political consensus and you are doing exactly the opposite. So we will not allow you - and I am ending this debate - to turn a public health crisis into a crisis of democracy! It's over and over! We talked a lot about the bill. In the committees, we have explained the reasoning, the approach, everything. The crucial issue of these days is another issue of democracy, which has emerged globally and pan-Europeanly and which this government diligently avoids even putting it and intellectually. This is the issue of the unequal access of the citizens of our country, Europe and the world to the new safe and effective vaccines that are indeed the key element of the strategy, so that at some point the major threat may be halted. Of course, it's the key, not the only one. There is also the question of controlling the spread, good epidemiological surveillance, targeted prevention, strengthening the health system, access to innovative treatments and so on. But it's critical and catalytic. And on this point, then, the picture is that the market - which you have to say, internationally, both in our country and globally, fails to respond to the increased demand for the period. That's the point. Against this background, the only serious and progressive proposal - an intervention which reduces the inequality which is recorded - only 30% of the world's countries currently have vaccines - is the idea of removing the beneficial measures, restrictions, the advantages created by the patent status, so that production capacity can multiply throughout the world and that the citizens of the whole world have quickly immunization from this great threat. That's the only suggestion. In the face of this, you are defending the sacred and loyal interests of the international system of interests in this field, corporate rights. We have a two-rights conflict. One is the right of people to equality, health care, prevention, prevention from this pandemic, and the other is the right - within the introductory - 'right' of its large multinationals to take advantage of this privileged regime, in order to be over-profited, because their profits have been made. Profit has also been made through public funding in the investigations and through the advance of a large amount of doses and by the rapid approval by international bodies for evaluation and approval of new vaccines. So it is now time to raise this issue and they have already set it up in Europe's institutions. In excess of the left-wing splits - on the right, Members of the European People's Party voted in favour of the proposal by the Eurogroup on the left. Faced with this conflict of rights you need to take a position. What right are you with? That means 'I understand the juncture', i.e. I understand that here we have a huge global crisis that changes the agendas and which obviously also can question patents. So this is the challenge to which you do not respond and come here and try to contaminate, lying down that our proposal is about domestic production. Obviously that is not the case, but we know very well that there are productive potential in Europe and in other countries in the world that have experience and know-how in vaccines and can quickly increase available doses. What does the PFIZER and SANOFI mean mean? That's exactly what it means. Be careful, what PFIZER decides to do with its own business logic, whether it is in its interests and under the conditions it is in it, we say that it is under the umbrella of the European Union and the World Health Organisation, in order to be a guaranteed process rather than a business plan of companies. So that's our difference. And you tell us this is a state-of-the-art statement. You now want to detonate over-preservative reflexes. Mr. Floris triggers extreme right reflexes, anti-communist reflexes. That's what we hear when you start rooting. These are your reflexes, i.e. intimidation, reflexes of past and - hopefully - of unspeakable memory of times. So here is the point of point. And what's the Prime Minister doing? Without having consulted anyone - it has not spoken with the National Committee for Vaccines, it has not spoken with the National Committee for Bioethics, it has spoken with no major scientist on these issues - it adopts a proposal coming from the market, from the airlines, from the tour operators - I do not know where - which is completely in the wrong direction and shows it as a great idea, which it will go to claim in Europe. By the time we've vaccinated 2% of the population, are we going to start talking about the privileges of the vaccinated? Do you not understand that you are initially triggering the questioning and the anti-invasive movement, as you are actually strengthening the argument of indirect compulsoryity? Don't you know that the vaccinated person doesn't transmit and that he can be an asymptomatic agent? Don't you know that? So where and where will this sanitary passport be? Another is to have a digitalised certificate as if you have a health card and it is to be able to have it with you and go anywhere else and this is a sign of discrimination and even double discrimination towards those who are waiting for solidarity in health and vulnerable groups. We cannot let those who wait for them to be vaccinated, tell them that you will be second-class citizens. It is tragicly irresponsible, unscientific and unsocial. Instead of taking advantage of the juncture in order to make the intervention of a substance and to make alliances with other countries, you should consider questioning neoliberal hegemony and idealism - which collapsed - for market competition that solves the problems, all you say is such initiatives, which were 'tracking a door' in Europe among others. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. I conclude by saying this: unfortunately it is once again confirmed that it is indeed an accident for society and the country that manages this major crisis, a neoliberal government that does not just believe, but has intolerance and allergy to the strong public health system, the strong social state, to policies to reduce inequalities and social redistribution. Such an anti-neoliberal plan must also be set up, and we will also take such initiatives in the health sector and in all areas of economic and social life, to reliably claim the country's governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr. Blonde.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, could I take the floor for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u261	Of course, Minister. Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. I'll only need a minute until the Step is ready. Because this debate on patents is taking place, I do not remember last year when the proposal was made by Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Mosilos, SYRIZA, to take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u263	What are you talking about? Do you want me to give you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u264	And you said, Mr. Xanthi, then there was no vaccine. Then we had to act when there was no vaccine. Now we're talking about where there is and all the factories are working in the world? You're confusing the patents with the production capacity of the factories. We all know what's going on now. What did the Prime Minister say? To organise production, because we now know that all factories - which are in the world - have problems with vaccines with production processes and have raw material issues. It's not a patent thing. The Prime Minister said last year: 'Yes, to pick up the patents, to organize production'. Because production had to be organized. And it is a question of a productive process now, I repeat.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u265	But your Members of the European People's Party say!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u266	Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, health services are a very special case of services which focus on the adequacy of facilities, materials and staff, the provision of care and ways of improving its efficiency. These, unfortunately, in Greece of 2021, while they should be a reality, belong to the sphere of imagination. This also means that the private initiative needs to cover even the basics. But citizens, in order to feel safe, have a fair and self-evident demand for the state to cover the basic health infrastructure. But the opposite is true, that is, the infrastructure itself creates a huge problem for public health and care provided and, of course, that is not only that. Where are health services in our hospitals, which should relate to and cover absolutely the immediate provision of services, the suitability, reliability, proper design of facilities, staff adequacy, the use of new technology equipment? Have you recorded how many Greek and Greek doctors were forced to leave our country to work in hospitals abroad? A total of six hundred thousands of our fellow citizens of different professions and directions left abroad during the memorial period. And what do they want? Incentives to get back to our country. Have you wondered how much they need here and the doctors and nurses and professionals of different branches? No one's left over. We referred at the meeting of the committees to the individual elements concerning the two donation contracts, the first for the General Hospital of Athens "GEORGIOS GENNAMAOS", the second for the reconstruction and supply of equipment of the hospital at the Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki "Theagenio". We stressed the fact that the selection of persons to proceed with the project will only be carried out by the borrower in relation to the first contract, but also the paradox of the resignation of the public by any right to require the donor to carry out further work if he considers it necessary. The second convention also sees a large number of tax exemptions, even for those who contribute with it. With regard to the other provisions of the Ministry of Health, again extensions, again photographic provisions. They are extremely friendly to you, bending and coughing practices, we would say. That's how public health doesn't go forward and you know it. But, instead of making drastic moves to change it, you maintain policies that should be clearly political in the past. So, you want to tell us that in the EEA's archiving and file management services, there could be no arrangement earlier, so that they wouldn't have to be extended? Or do you want to convince us that it is necessary for the district manager to appoint a doctor and engineer to the private clinic committees? Let's not be fooled. Striking somewhere has to stop. The same applies to the management of the pandemic. Greek President Kyriakos Velopoulos stressed it yesterday in this Chamber, speaking with details of a serious and thorough nature. We're against the vacancy of the vaccine. I'm stressing it again. We are against the bindingity of the vaccine, whether indirectly or directly. A serious solution is the medicine. Why have you neglected it? In the second article on the monthly pharmaceutical expenditure, which states that the amount of the cost of the vaccines is 'no' by common decision of the Ministers for Finance and Health. In Article 32 for the operation of vaccination centres, by way of derogation from the provisions, we are 'no'. In Article 33 on the movement of qualified doctors to meet the needs of the National Vaccine Programme, again by way of derogation from the other provisions, we are 'no'. Raise beds to private clinics. In essence, you are increasing their profit margins by exceptional procedures. Such actions require study and preparation. We asked, but we did not receive a reply, why the possibility of prescribing special treatments is extended to all certified doctors. The same applies to the remuneration of members of the Committee for the Trading of Medicinal Products, which are also referred to in retroactive terms. How can we expect to see the improvement and development in the health sector when such provisions are being voted on? The major health shortages in Greece are known. Instead of trying to eliminate, maintain and in many cases increase. The tragic gaps have emerged and continue to emerge in the current context in the most dramatic way and the short-sighted policies of logic "to make the week or month" are out of place and time. We in the Greek Solution believe that the achievement of the highest possible level of health is a fundamental and inalienable right for Greek citizens. Respect them, even now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mrs Asmakopoulou, for keeping time. The floor will be taken by the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Karathanasopoulos, and immediately thereafter the two colleagues with a natural presence, i.e. here, the MP of the New Democracy Mr. Blouchos and the MP of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Then we'll go with Webex's teleconferencing system. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u269	Thank you very much, Mr President. The KKE welcomes the great participation of the pan-educational rallys in Athens, Thessaloniki and the other major cities. And they were pan-educational rallys - because Mr Ploris' s poaching must not go unnoticed - from the point of view of students participating, teachers participated, participated in universities, parents and guardians, following invitations from their student clubs and unions. From this point of view - and we have said so from this point of view - this ban will be turned into a rag of paper and they have actually turned it into a piece of paper, with their attitude, into a rag and this ban. The specific question is why they came out on the street. Did they come out of the street? Are they rapists and they like to get out on the streets and fight and mobilize? Or do they have against them a hard, anti-popular policy, which, at a time of pandemic, runs on waves of attacks on the right to education, attacks on labour rights, insurance rights, attacks and non-protection measures to protect public health? That's what they have to deal with. In this case they were faced with and mobilised in front of a bill - an abortion, which the government is preparing to bring to the House on the issues of education, where, in essence, it puts new barriers to university introduction, puts new barriers to the completion of studies, especially for students, for workers who are slandered in the name of 'eternal students' and, at the same time, moves forward in the creation of the university police. It's no accident that he's taking all these measures. It is no coincidence that universities are the only body to have opened up this entire pandemic. The government keeps them on purpose, precisely so that students, workers and teachers cannot express their reaction and opposition to these plans made by the government. From this point of view, the one who mobilizes and mobilizes mobilisations is government policy. Thus, authoritarianism is once again confirmed to be the contributor to each government's anti-popular policy. Didn't we also have with the SYRIZA government, the MATs, towards the pensioners, the MATs, against the workers, those who react to the auctions, the apprenticeships and the agro-industry? It was also the logic of previous governments, of course. What is the essence of this effort by the government, but also of the 'bugs' which support it? What they want to slander is to slander the struggles of youth, workers, popular strata. And they even come to think that collective action and intervention within universities are the victims of crime. Do you think that's how you're gonna keep the challenge that you're making? On the other hand, where they are aiming at the substance of these bans, they are precisely in the consciousness of broader people's strata to challenge in practice the people's right to organise, fight and claim their rights in practice. That's what you want to slander. This is not something that we see only in Greece. We see it in the European Union as a whole, but also in the other capitalist developed economies. So, he is trying to form, to shield such an anti-Salan, anti-Salan structure through this process. From this point of view, we have a escalation of anti-government, authoritarian measures, restrictions on the right to strike, restrictions on the right to trade in work and at universities, restrictions on mergers. And, of course, in order to create this authoritarian structure, all governments have put their hands on it, and we are moving forward. However, neither the current government nor the previous ones have been taught. Those who think they will be able to put on their plaster struggles are deeply unscrupulous. The popular rage is inflated and you will find it in front of you with these measures you are taking. From this point of view, as the current ban has turned into a rag, this will turn into a rag and the measures that you want to impose on universities with your next bill. I come to the specific issues that concern today's bill. Our rapporteur, of course, has referred in detail to what is envisaged. There was a wider and more generalised debate on the public health system and how it responded to the pandemic period. We say this clearly: the government has made a choice to turn the public health system into a system of disease, only to treat the coronary. Is that an exception? Corresponding choices were made in the rest of the developed economies so as not to collapse health systems in all developed capitalist states. And yet they collapsed in too many of them. What is the cause of this situation, which we are seeing at global level, but also in our country, to break down public health systems? Is this the pandemic just? They couldn't deal with her? Oh, no. It's the choice that's been made. So who? The merchandise of health. This is the nucleus under which there are health systems which cannot meet the needs of the time. And this trade in health, of course, confirms that, above all, it is the defence of economic interests, which go above the needs of the people. Thus, we have a deterioration in the infrastructures of the public health system, primary health care, which is on paper just, typically. Secondary, hospitals are degraded daily, continuously. In previous years, we had shut down hospital units from both New Democracy and SYRIZA. We had and we had huge shortages of staff, doctors and nurses. We have the creation of industrial relations - 'tidy', the intensification of workers in hospitals. Of course, on the other hand, we have extremely expensive and degraded benefits, we have a very expensive medicine, because, in essence, the operation of hospitals forms part of the logic of the use of private economic criteria. What's the result? Where have we been? First of all, we have led to workers, self-employed people, professionals, farmers, pensioners three times the contribution in favour of the health sector, being literally disguised as taxpayers and as insured persons, but also as recipients with participation in hospitals and medicines. And at the same time they have these downgraded benefits! In this situation you have all contributed. It is a 'child' of all governments, this image which the public health system presents. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] The reason is that there is no money, that expenditure on health should be adjusted to the requirements of the time. And what are the requirements of the time? To 'congratulations' on the substance, which on the one hand you all think health is a commodity, that the medicine is a commodity and at the same time the logic of budgetary discipline. Both lead to the logic of sub-funding health, the deterioration of health provision structures for the benefit of the health business. From this point of view, this situation of course cannot be dealt with by any donations. And at the bottom of the script, it is not possible that any sponsorship, ladies and gentlemen of the government, as well as of the rest of the parties, raises the historical path of each donor, of each donor. Let's keep this. We therefore say very clearly that we need another policy, which will effectively abolish the private health sector and upgrade the public health system. Today we need massive recruitment of health personnel with permanent employment relationships. This situation cannot be dealt with with with the various patches, with the micro-movements from here and there. You're trying to close a hole, but you're trying to open multiple holes with the movements of health personnel. Of course, the top of the pyramid of this situation, which our people and other people are experiencing, is nothing but what we have seen in recent times, the war on vaccines that basically strips and reveals the rot of the capitalist system, which you all support. We are observing the competition between the pharmaceutical industries for whose vaccine will be better forged, the competition between which states will buy the vaccine first. And at the heart of these competitions, of course, is profit. In this very hunt of profits, states and governments, along with pharmaceuticals, play public health dice. Because there are good wishes which we have heard here, that the vaccine is a social asset, that the patents should be given. But all this is a wish and not only are they not facing the reality, which we are experiencing, but they also cultivate delusional ones. The medicine, the vaccine, is a commodity in capitalism and through this process they make social needs even greater for profit. So the conclusion of this whole situation is one: the most dangerous virus and public health is capitalism, at a time when science, research and technology can also have spectacular effects in the health sector. But that is what another state organisation needs and power has to go through to other hands. And if you want, that's what confirms the enormous supremacy of the socialist system towards capitalism. Because in socialism all scientists and research centres would have entered the service of producing the vaccine together, the medicine that would be faced with this situation, without this unfair competition that actually puts the seal on developments. But the Greek people and the people have not said their last word. And from this point of view, it is clear that the attitude of our party and today's bill towards this effort and disorientation, as well as the support of a deeply anti-popular policy implemented by the government and its disclosure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Constantine Blouchos, Member of the New Democracy from Drama, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Blush, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by ordering the in detail of the period in the field of global health, the bill from its title is an opportunity to reflect on the way in which our State operates and how we treat public health and public education as a State collectively. We are also undermining the way in which we face a financial benefit and its availability for the benefit of the citizens, the Greeks today and tomorrow. Civil society and benefactoryness have been manipulated, the governance of the non-profit sector is being upgraded, but also of some public bodies, a pluralist environment is being created where, with the contribution of all - benefactors and public authorities - the collective demand is being met. These donations cover the needs of the whole, changing the worthwhile orientation of society. Nowadays, the local area is also dynamic - let me speak - be beneficial. Several of these protagonists of the "new spring" of benefactivity in our country have emerged and exist in my area. It is absolutely essential that we ensure this new generation of donors, that we lift strangles and appalling partners, because the influx of resources from bodies outside the system knows that it overturns internal or other balances, that we ensure the targeting, but also the sustainability of the object of benefit and beyond our ideological obsessions, that aid is fast, reduces the distance between political decision and practical outcome, and we need to create a climate of confidence through the cooperation of donors and donors, and to make it easier for the benefactors to count behind the common purpose. It is very touching for those of us who are doctors, most of all not for those of us who studied in the unsubs and we know what the “God” is” Anticancer Hospital and for those who work today with it that this institution is made by a chain of vulnerable people, by a chain of benefactors of the country. It was said uncircumcisedly by voices of counter-population that the state's addiction to philanthropy and philanthropy of individuals is an ideological choice and pursuit of the New Democracy. It is sad, because neither in the painting of Theodoros Vrysakis entitled "Greece was grateful" we cannot agree without ideological peaks and obsessed. Theagenis Haris 1863 on Turkish occupation, Dimitrios Ioannides 1909 in Turkish-populated still Thessaloniki, Nikolaos and Iraklis Moskov with the "meta-parents" of the great Communist thinker Kostis Moskov in 1943 within the Occupation, Marianna Latsis in 2021 in the free modern Greece. I mentioned five faces of benefactors of only one institution who promoted the Greek soul by magnifying and displaying generosity, altruism and philosopheria. And this is not a failure to rule the country in terms of the requirements of the Constitution. This is an act of public life, where the meaning of life lies in the service of the public good and not in the captured unpunishedness and not in the barren complaint. It is a painful picture of public health dialogue in the middle of a pandemic phenomenon: a report of opposition political masturbation, political necrology, obsessive numerology with false or incomplete evidence that the beds of the ICU have not increased, that public health has not been adequately funded, that the required doctors and nurses, fertile number-subjects, and juicy left-hand insecurity for all diseases have not been appointed. Appoint now, perpetuate now! Consistency in the area of deferring vaccination and that the government is unaware of investing unilaterally in vaccination rather than investing in treatment with drugs, innovative treatments, said Mr. Xanthos, thankfully distanced from the Deputy former Minister. With regard to the efforts of the former Deputy Minister of State, Mr Polakis, the scientific community right to protect the collective enjoyment of services, that is to say, all of us, operates on stable, secure scales, with evidence levels of studies, i.e. by scientific companies, by scientific associations, by promoting guiding protocols and directives so that no one can be legitimately evacuated from this regulatory ethics. Science in sensitive fields cannot follow reactionary monoways nor be capitalised and used politically. This refers to anachronistic periods with lisenskoism characteristics. In conclusion, because the scientist does not deal with answering and divising political controversy, it is good that those belonging to the scientific community, some of us, do not remember it and disguise it with any chatter and, of course, politicians respect the scientific community and do not work on it using data that are cut off or using the ethical failure of certain scientists "clouded" by reproducing their deaf populism to the saturation of their deceased populism. In other words, the government, which is striving to defeat a moving sand environment, which the European Union itself is betrayed by the war of the companies' inconsistency, has been accused. I'm sorry, but on a pandemic ground you can't argue with password fireworks. It's pathetic, I think, for the opposition line of the carved SYRIZA. Observes entrepreneurial apnea, and this is due to your peculiar manipulation, to the tolerance and instability of the pathogenesis of the ESS that you express. And all of this is from your illusory understanding of his privileged custody and authentic interpreter of every prose and of course of the ERC. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Resigning from the self-invited custody of any privileged print is something we expect. Probably for you a project is not health, but a demonstration of power. Who's involved in health? We also want a right to protest against enemies of the fantasy. You're trying to be ambushed in logic and self-evident. Challenges of intentions are your right. However, to cancel actions, such as the provisions of these which are necessary and have operational flexibility, is rather a populist acronym. Let us see some of the axes on which we need to move and ensure the livelihood of this multipathic system and break the vicious cycle of its pathogens but not solved by automation. You know that the diversity and a duplication that exists in this system has caused managerial interoperability over the years, which has not changed by automation. A major issue is the management of the demography of health professionals in conjunction with the basic imbalance in the unequal distribution of health potential between centres and region. It doesn't change in a moment with automation. Also, the need to streamline the administration and the funding of our hospitals is something that does not change in a moment with automation. Improving the management of public procurement and, of course, monitoring of pharmaceutical expenditure. And, of course, the organisation of primary health care, because we have a'mosaic' bodies that have been helping in this direction. No one is talking about the post-medical care that does not even exist in all these years in our homeland. After all, SYRIZA spokesman, Mr. Xanthos, stressed that we should not allow, under the government's responsibility, the dilemma 'public health or survival' and even worse 'public health or democracy' to be put into society. A sad revival of oppressed and deadly vengeance! That's how your most dignified voices get carried away! "Door", rather, "done" truthfulness and courage to face the truth, because your own political contract is exhausted in imperialism along with blind justice. The "affiliation" of mass appointings and monasticizations as a cure, staffing and funding under a unique view, dry nonsense and hysterical fanatism have probably taken the ignorance of self-evident and reality. It is a pity that in today's difficult situation citizens' confidence in the state is not shaken, because yes, today under Kyriakos Mitsotakis we have a strong official state. Ladies and gentlemen - I conclude, Mr President, and I apologise - I quote a great text rendered to poet Maria Polydouris. "Let us love with passion the forced fellow and burn in the flame of this love. And when it's time to get out of the spotlight, let's get out of here not of boredom, but of honesty. From the sincerity and honesty that we have truly tried and have not been buried by the lie that the ideological narcissism of some utopia with which we have been abhorred." The ESS exists for the citizens and belongs to our needed fellow citizens. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u272	Be well, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u274	For the amendment you took in your hands? Here, Mr Katrin, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u275	I do not want to talk about the amendment, Mr President, because I have been away for a short time from the Chamber. Mr President, an amendment was tabled, which says: 'Recruitment without approval of the committee for medical and all kinds of staff at the Ministry's Central Office, the Ministry's Ministry of Defence and the Cyts...' and I don't know where else. I haven't been able to read it all. Here you are building an ancillary staff recruitment industry. That's what you're doing, Minister. Now you remembered getting people for the National Vaccine Program. Now you remembered it Thursday afternoon. While you have announced vaccinations since the end of December, you are now saying that you will get out of every process of approval of the Ministerial Council. We'll wait like a Change Movement to tell us what the necessity is, because you have to do all these recruitments now. Tell us. You testified her. Will you support her?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u276	Not now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u277	Mr President, an amendment has been tabled and it is customary for the Minister who submits it to inform the Delegation of the content. I don't know if the State Secretary is just filing it and waiting to read it to answer our questions. But that's how it usually happens. It analyses and explains to colleagues here why it is being submitted with this content too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u278	Thank you. Mr. Bored, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u279	On the occasion of the previous speaker, I would like to say that from the point of view of party poems, it is better to have a true poem at the end. Mr President, because I was going up for the first time in Step after New Year's Eve, I was thinking whether I had to make the wish: 'Happy in 1969'. But, listening to Mr. Plearis, I said not to insist on this wish. Do you know why? In my opinion, there was no case in 1969 for it to be a happy year, at least for us, but I do not know about Mr Ploris. Mr.Pilaris and the New Democracy, which is still called "Democracy" and "New", came here to tell us that they are being cut for the pandemic, are being cut for the doctrine of "law and order" and came to talk about 17 November, even trying to identify it with the Realism. According to Hitler's saying "a great lie is more believed than a small lie". Look, to be serious, if we can incorporate pandemic into the history of human adventure - I quote, "OXFAM" that saw publicity just before the beginning of the Davos Forum. According to this information, the thousand richer people on earth from 18 March to 31 December, in the midst of a pandemic, increased their profits by 4 trillion dollars, when the poorest will take at least ten years to recover. The question is: Is the medicine for this thing the police rule? Because we have reached the point if Mr Chrysochoidis exchanged the Ministry with Mrs Kerameou, no one can understand the difference. In this context, I would like to say that the doctrine of some who are working on everything that New Democracy is faked in the form of propaganda, which tends to take the form of a parallel universe, "give the sons of fear to the coroner more fear to pass through what we want to go through". That's what they say. Here, because I come from the province, from Atalo-Carnania, to tell you: Will the phenomenon continue to arrest elderly women and stay in disciplinary school because - says - they were arrested in the café where the owner says they came to order two coffees and waited, while the police said they were drinking there? Will women continue to stay in disciplinary school? Can I tell you something? Let's just say casinos are also business and have been damaged in the pandemic. But how does a fine in the casino of EUR 36,000 erase within two nights and at the same time in remote villages impose fines of EUR 5,000 and EUR 8,000, a double fine on the man acting as owner, and on the woman who was in the cafeteria? These are not prevention fines, they are extermination fines. They are fines for which the Prime Minister, who had announced from this Stepma that the EUR 300 will go to 500 because this is linked to the rehearsal of the economy. Let's take the 300 euros to 1000 euros to take off the economy. At the same time in the Netherlands, which is much poorer than Greece, the corresponding fine of EUR 300, which would become EUR 500, is EUR 92. You know what's going on? There is a selective application of the fines. Mr. Chrysochoidis and I do not know who else has been responsible for a "Ruvicona" that leads Greece where the Greeks wanted to forget it. This isn't going to pass that way. If they think they will apply exterminated fines selectively, they must forget that this can go through the fear and propaganda of the government. I now come to the point. The donations, of course, are welcome and commendable. But I do not agree with Mr Katrin, for example, who said that he is a pillar of the National Health System.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u280	I said they've backed up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u281	Okay. Donations must be integrated into a more general design, which tends to obtain equipment for hospitals and what is needed to enable them to function effectively. For example, I visited the Health Center in Agrinio yesterday. There's a fridge of medicines missing. That seems very simple, but under these circumstances it is more than necessary. On a larger scale, therefore, we are not afraid of the private sector, nor are we questioning its existence, as Mr Ploris and the New Democracy have said, but we say: well, the private sector has not done any kind of work in the pandemic, so that the government, when it legislates to start from it and with the private sector in its minds and on the second fate of those who have fought the battle on the frontline of the war, is now characterized as unspeakable and beautiful. I say, therefore, that the government, the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible were selling the vaccine on a communiqué long before it was discovered and they had given the impression that the pandemic problem will one day be solved. Turns out that's not the case. At the moment we are talking, the 1.7% of the Greek population has been vaccinated. In Israel, 50% has been vaccinated, but Israel is outside the European Union. I'll finish by saying this. The New Democracy, the Government, comes here and swears in the struggle against pandemic, selling the vaccines before they come and forge a superembol during the pandemic, the election. In other words, it says that the people will generally be late to make the gathering and ask themselves: "Well, they tell me that I face a problem of life and death, and at the same time they exalt plans to take advantage of the pandemic for self-interest purposes." And this is where personal political interest conflicts with the public interest, with the country's own interests. And this conflict hopes not to lead to tragedy. It's too much for Mr. Floris to come here and talk about lies. I told you about the big lie Hitler said was getting more trustworthy than the little one. I say this, if you like, paraphrasing or misinterpreting the songmaker's lyrics: "They throw away the lies, but the truth remains" or at least at some point it will shine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u282	Thank you very much, Mr Barrett. Now we go to the web-speaking circle and first to Mr. Spyridonas Spiritual from New Democracy and the beautiful Evia and prepare Mr. Giannoulis and Mr. Liutas. I would be grateful if you were from web to watch your time, please very much. Mr. Spiritual, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u283	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the ratification of two major donations to the National Health System, concerning the renovation of the Emergency Department of the General Hospital of "General Generations" and the relocation of the daily hospital unit for the tumor patients of the Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki "THAGENEI" in a new, renovated building. With these two donation contracts we will have a substantial upgrade of the level of health services in Athens and Thessaloniki for the benefit of thousands of patients. These are interventions that the ERC really needs and will be completed immediately within one year. In the difficult economic situation that we have experienced over the last decade and over time, we must recognise that the private initiative, through significant donations, has helped and has substantially supported the modernisation of the public health system. Donations clearly and are a crucial tool for health financial support, but it is certain that they are not enough to survive the National Health System. Our country now needs modern, at all levels, health structures. The Government of New Democracy has already submitted a package of proposals to the Recovery Fund for the health sector of EUR 3 billion, of which 660 million concern renovation and upgrading of infrastructure in hospitals. Our aim is a new, stable and effective way of financing public health, which meets the needs of patients, but also the progress of science, the ESS can be self-financed and not just dependent on the state budget. This requires firstly greater independence and self-government of hospitals, with an autonomous budget, which is accountable, will provide a concrete balance sheet and balance sheet and will be judged on the basis of its work in a stable, consistent and consistent manner and not dependent on political changes. It requires the creation of a new health map, including all health facilities, hospitals, health centres, hospitals and, above all, the recording of needs at local level, away from political purposes. Also, we need to find ways of properly rewarding doctors and health staff, in a way that responds to the importance and productivity of their work. In this direction, proper costing and payment of services is required by the EEAS directly to hospitals. It is important that, in this bill by the Ministry of Health, it proceeds with synergies on the new way of costing medical services with so-called DRGs. DRGs, such as the corresponding RVUs in the United States, are not only a method of costing but also a way of assessing the productivity and performance of the system, and indeed on the basis of objective indicators, such as the cost of hospitalisation and complications, etc. This development is important to be linked directly to the logic of creating an evidence based media. What does that mean? The need for any medical action (cost-benefit ratio) will be assessed and will only take place if there are real scientific evidence. The results of scientific and medical operations shall be recorded in registries and, if necessary, amended, leading to optimal and quality health. We are talking about a clear upgrade of the whole way of operation of the health system. In this context, it is also necessary to set up centres of expertise, consisting of groups of specialist doctors of different specialties, who respect the above-mentioned databases will ensure the best possible medical practice, limiting complications and saving resources. Finally, the main ERC support axis is the reform of the procurement system. Chronic problems and delays in this area are well known. The question is to consolidate a flexible, functional and rapid process at the hospital unit level, mainly on the basis of the best price and not the perpetuation of the wave of mass processes, which are fatally offended and of course never complete, so that the state always purchases desecrated and expensive. With the operation of specialized centres of excellence, proper costing and an effective procurement system will be saved resources which will be reinvested in the health system. The result of all these interventions will be accessible and advanced health without a single euro being spent without real reason. That is what we mean when we talk about self-financing. It is obvious that in order to finance the modernisation of the system in a stable and efficient way, state funding is not enough alone. We must be realistic, find new sources of funding and new forms of cooperation, such as the involvement of the private sector, in such a way as to favour competition and to improve the public system for the benefit of patients. Thus, every patient with AMKA, whatever financial surface, will have access to quality health, will feel safe and have the best possible public care. In conclusion, I would like to make a brief reference to the big issue of the days, which is the course of the vaccination operation against COVID -19. Since the beginning of the year we have reached over three times the number of vaccinations a day. We must not forget that this project is truly huge, with complex logistical aspects, mainly due to the sensitivity of the vaccine available. Of course there are some arrhythmias, which is normal under the current data. For example, Minister, many elderly people in northern Evia, due to long distances and bad roads, have had difficulty or even lost their appointment for vaccination. It is with great satisfaction that this draft law regulates this issue to a large extent, with the establishment of health centres as vaccination centres, and new vaccination structures open every day in our country. I would like to ask you, when the network is now in full development, that these people be taken care of in resetting their vaccination dates. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy with today's bill confirms its commitment to supporting its public health system and its people by introducing arrangements to strengthen the ESS against the exceptional pandemic conditions and as a whole for its more effective administration. The conditions are favourable to move on to the necessary changes in health, with vision, strategy and targeting always the best possible for each patient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr Spiritual, for keeping time. As always, gentleman with a cape. Mr Christos Giannoulis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President, and I will try to contribute to time as a sign of understanding and apologies, which I had sadd you a few weeks ago, although your interlocutor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u286	There goes that, I forgot.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u287	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that there is a tension, there is an irritation, because while the power of the majority and the government should be the citizens and the reality, unfortunately, with a strong sense of institutionalism, you are trying to create an image that does not correspond to what is going on outside. In the case of a majority, either we have talks and places identical to each other or we will, at one time, be avoided in a fair manner towards the quality, innovative or original reason. I find myself infinitely sympathetic - and she knows it - to the doctor from Drama, Mr Blucho, but she chose to close with Maria Polydouris and a poetic spirit. He may have missed that Maria Polydouris was his companion, Kostas Karyotakis, who put an end to his life because there were no horizons, because there was no hope and perspective within a hybrid Greek state, then, of indestructibility, where the people who had dreams for their lives were putting their dreams. This, ladies and gentlemen, put it in today's picture, not of the protest of teachers, academics, parents and students, to stick to a coronary, but to claim their dreams, to claim what "Michael Chrysochoidis and the Minister for Civil Protection Niki Kerameos", when they set as a project for the education of a thousand policemen and not the funding of research, which would help the National Health System, for which the government majority is late to discuss today, on how to better become universities and how our children and the next generations will be shielded against the current challenges. The horizons have been gone, and I understand the irritation many times, because in the matter we are discussing the National Health System and many more you cannot go through the bar you have put a lot higher than your political boot. And when you're in this dead end, you're resorting to Kufondina solutions, you expect us to tell you about Kalamboka, who murdered Temponer, but he enjoys far more rights than other killers. You go in touch with the debate on issues that can be considered as waiting at the moment because of the situation and pandemic. Why? Because in all the expectations you have made since the beginning of the pandemic in relation to the National Health System you have managed to disprove the demands of the heroes, the protagonists, but also the victims, the patients of this tragedy. Do you want to remember what happened in Thessaloniki? Do you have any questions? Just a few weeks ago Mr. Kontozamanis, in reply to a question by Socrates Famelos, of the SYRIZA MP, was almost shattered, whispered after the storm of the revelations, which are condensed in a title: Thessaloniki is the result of a personal political choice of Mr. Mitsotakis against suggestions, against appreciations, against evidence, against reality. He has once again chosen the vote and not the responsibility, as he did in the agreement on northern Macedonia, in the Prespecies Agreement, and as the leader of the opposition, he has also expressed himself as the governor today and Prime Minister, who is effectively controlled by his shadow Prime Minister, Mr Samaras. I don't know if he'll let you sign the agreements for northern Macedonia next week or when they're coming. I do not know whether Mr Samaras will allow you, the majority Members, to sign them. We're waiting. The National Health System, however, cannot wait. It can't wait for measures, when, after you're swaying, you're ironing and deceiving those who made proposals, you're exploiting a communication, artificial and well-paid communication superpower, in order to silence proposals, which have been made, swept away and followed literally after a few months. Do you want examples? Only the proposal for the monoclonal antibodies of Polakis, which has been smoking again, is that it has been formulated since 13 December, and all you have done was to salvage the former Deputy Minister of Health, because you have also invented a communication trick of targeting this particular minister. But, in essence, can you answer me manually to the heart as parliamentarians, not only as members of the New Democracy, if this proposal had been accepted, if even one person would have been saved? If there were more practical and substantial interventions in the National Health System, such as with sophisticated respirators, which would help prevent intubation - in order not to make the scientists and experts - two human lives would have been saved? The head of the "Papanikolaou" Intensive Unit, Mr. Kapravelos admitted - and should haunt you this in view - that, if we had prepared in time for the long lost period of pilgrimage, imprisonment and arrogance that we ended with the virus and we left over in the seas, to advertise the beaches of Crete, we could have saved people who lost their lives unfairly. That's what you know, it's not SYRIZA's opposition. These are now written in history, they are written in history. And you know what else he writes with the National Health System? Today, for example, in this bill, there is the donation for "births". Do you want to talk about another donation to the Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki in Filio, donation of Stavros Niarchus? The people of the institution and also members of your party admitted a few months ago that thankfully there were the suggestions and perseverance of Xanthos and Polakis to create this hospital. And now the only problem there is, do you know what it is? That the Region of Central Macedonia cannot make the infrastructure, so that the hospital can be accessed, when it is done, and that we do not have a “blind” pediatric hospital in Filiro. I would like to close by saying that you left too many people alone and have disproved the expectations of the citizens who could be your true strength and not the popular or communist ward in which you have rested within the walls of the House. You could really see what is going on with the thousands of graduates of the OAS, who have closed the door and led them to unemployment. You could see what has been done with the truly despaired workers and businessmen in the focus. You could see what really is going on, to see how hypocritical your attitude is today at the ESS. I heard before about the amendment, which Mr Katrinis complained about, and very well he complained, that by retrospective patches, after a long distance, you are trying to cover holes and gaps that have been said to you, which have been formulated. Like a thief, you're coming to legislate something you know you've heard of before. But then you were on the laurels and ridden in the arrogance that you defeated the coronary. You would say, not us. The last bluntness and irony was on the subject of the vaccine patent. And the Council of Europe is coming and in fact it offends the Greek Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, for what he has dealt with with a former Prime Minister. And on the issue of vaccines, what is your initiative within the European Community and outside the European Community, as Cyprus did, to overcome the deadlock? It is not the Mitsotakis' fault, but it is the political dogmatism that is very close to Mitsotakis' opinions. You want to hand it all over to the private. Twice that your political gladiatoria was tested in the clinics that were attacked after delay in Thessaloniki, where no single patient went, and were paid!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Giannoulis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u289	I shall conclude, Mr President, by wishing that the next poem, which will not concern us - I hope - will not be called the 'Capemony of this place', after the government decides to rule on reality and not on the dream in its mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr. Yannoulis. And go to Mr. Athanasio Ljuta, the Trikalinus, of the New Democracy, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, good evening. First of all, they must respond to Mr Giannoulis that, if he goes on the sidewalk, he will very well understand what credibility the New Democracy Government has had and what credibility the SYRIZA government has had over the years that he has been ruling on us. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's plenary debate on the Ministry of Health bill once again, the decisive strategy that the Ministry of Health and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis followed and followed for the strengthening of public health. The pandemic coronary crisis undoubtedly raised the situation in the public health sector at the forefront. Initially, our public health sector presented pathogens and structural distortions. Drawbacks that have to be addressed so that the public health system as a whole can face the pandemic crisis. The distortions that need to be addressed so that the public health of our country can go to a new era, at the time of offering quality and upgraded health services for the benefit of the whole of our society, at a time when the public health system will attract our doctors and reverse Brain drain, clearly at a time when the high footprint of everyone's work will not run counter to the shortcomings and distortions. On these objectives, the Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis have been fighters and effective since the first moment. Our government was elected to bring major reforms to the place. Reforms that have brought in, brought in and brought in. With speed, effectiveness and by setting as absolute objectives the strengthening of public health and the defence of human life, we have taken and implemented important and critical decisions. Intensive treatment units and care units increased. At the same time, the strategy of additional staffing of public health units has been carried out and continued. In this battle against pandemic, Greek society showed its most solidarity. The Greek society and our fellow citizens individually enter the race given and assist with every appropriate means. In particular, with this bill, we dominate two donations that were made, the first by the "Latis" Foundation to restructure, renovate and upgrade the Emergency Department of the Athens Hospital "Georgios Gennimatas" and the second by Anna - Maria - Louiza Ioannis Latsis for the reconstruction of a section of the existing building of the Hellenic Anticancer Society in Pylonia Thessaloniki, in order to carry out the relocation of the Daily Hospital of the Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki, the "THEGEI". These two donations should be warmly thanked for the Latsis Foundation and Mrs Latsis. The "Georgios Gennimatas" and the "Theatre" are two hospitals whose work over time is a foundation throughout the attempt to treat patients. They treat many tens of thousands of our fellow citizens every year in immediate need. This makes it our duty to upgrade the quality of services offered. The high quality index on public health services is evidence of a developed state, a state and a state that cares with responsibility, hard work and sensitivity so that citizens receive the best possible care. The great responsibility of the state, as it is reflected in our overall attitude and policy, is of paramount importance. At the same time, the provision of society in this struggle becomes beneficial and evidence that society is sympathetic and offers those in need. Ladies and gentlemen, for almost a year now that we have all been called upon to live and manage the harsh reality of the Coronary, the Ministry of Health in total, the government and the Prime Minister have been responsible for strengthening the public health system, strengthening structures and supporting health and nursing staff and all the workers in it. The fight which has been given and given is a major struggle, a struggle that also brings great results. Our proposal, above all, of the aim of protecting the man against the coronary, has been accompanied by substantial acts of action that have been directed and have direct distortions to be corrected and the health system should be shielded. The same spirit, objective and strategy has this bill. The process of staffing public hospitals continues today. At the same time, the government, and at economic level, supports the public structures as well as the citizens in all this difficult situation. The extension for a year, as provided for in this bill, of the full discharge of the participation in the pharmaceutical expenditure of those beneficiaries who have been definitively deprived of the provision of the CSCE, is only one indication of the overall social strategy that is stifling our Government. In addition to my position, I would also like to focus on the relevant provision, which refers to the National Transplant Organisation, as it bears a large health and social footprint. In particular, arrangements shall be made to allow organ donation and donor to a patient with whom he maintains a personal relationship, whether or not the grafts are contagious. In the case of non-conformity, the patient is to be classified in the relevant national register. In this respect, I would like to say that this is a policy of fundamental importance, as the necessary steps are taken to strengthen culture in the form of a donor. It is the culture of solidarity and aid to save people's lives. Ladies and gentlemen, we have worked and worked hard. In the unprecedented pandemic, our politics was identified with the high size of supply to all. We were elected to offer. Politics meets its highest goal when it establishes society's supply and support. And that's what we're doing. Finally, on the occasion of this important bill which we are discussing today, I should like to express my warmest congratulations on the struggle that our health care professionals, nurses and all staff have made in public hospitals and health centres. It is a titanium struggle, which now also receives a new mission, that of the smooth and effective implementation of the vaccination plan against the coronary. The race that has been given and is growing highlights the important parchment of knowledge, skills and great soul reserve that everyone who serves from every place in our National Health System has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr. Luta. We're going to Kilkis now, to Mr. George Francis from the Change Movement. Mr. Francis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of a donation to the health sector, the Government again brings a piece of legislation which is a stirring-up of health provisions, without the intention of dealing with its basic and chronic problems. It is unable to abandon the logic of management and seize the opportunity to deal with the pathogens and problems of the health system that have come to the surface with the pandemic. We are positive to the bill, especially as regards the donations of the Latsis Foundation and Mrs Latsis. In recent years with the economic crisis and now with the coronary pandemic, donations have played a crucial role in meeting the essential needs of the National Health System. Their contribution to society and the economy is enormous and should therefore be encouraged through incentives. However, their transparency and proper management are prerequisites. We have pointed out in similar cases of bills that a permanent donation mechanism should be created, which will be supervised by the relevant committee of Parliament or by an independent authority. We cannot, for example, know what has become of all these donations made by individuals to the ESS during the pandemic period. There's information that many of them remain untapped in warehouses. As regards the other provisions of the draft law, these are purely management and management. The pandemic has raised problems that already existed in the health system, such as the tragic shortages in medical and nursing staff, but also in medical equipment, inadequate building infrastructure, the lack of organisation of primary health care, which makes it almost nonexistent, when its role in the pandemic should be the capital. The mental health of the Greeks is getting worse day after day. So all this is not dealt with in the bill we are discussing. Minister, the second wave of pandemic found you unprepared, still triumphant about the success of the first phase. You didn't strengthen the ESS and things went out of control, especially in northern Greece, as we did. In a third wave, then, there will be no excuse for your frustration in strengthening the ESS and the reconstruction of public health. And time there is more knowledge there is. In addition, there is funding from European funds. So make good use of them. Welcome and recommend new locations of qualified doctors in the U.S. for primary care and physical and medical care in hospitals. But what about the recruitment of permanent staff you have announced? What phase is it? Will you at last permanent and last make sure that the ancillarys that cover so many years of constant and constant needs are permanent? Moreover, the workers you hired under contract because of COVID, instead of continuously small extensions, would be better off giving them an extension of six months. Then you decide which positions are still necessary and which do not. I would also like to propose that qualified doctors should serve their farm to serve at this time in hospitals. There are at the moment great deficiencies and in specialties that are important for the treatment of patients in COVID. Regarding vaccination, there are surely dystomia emanating from the European Union and pharmaceutical companies. However, it seems that there has not been sufficient planning by the Ministry of Health. The delays are great, as in the vaccination centres, which are far from the eighteen that had been announced, there is no organised structure. But there is also a lack of information among the citizens, so that misinformation and fear prevail. You should also act for vaccination of elderly people in homes and people living in remote areas. We do not agree with the provision providing for the secondment of hospitals to primary health care in order to take advantage of vaccination. This weakens even more the hospitals, which have already been hit by the pandemic and have ended up facing a single disease, while the other incidents are not adequately treated. Primary health care with general doctors, farmers, but also private doctors can undertake the vaccination work. Hospitals and workers in public health establishments have reached their limits, and you, Minister, stubbornly refuse to recognise their work and offer. You refuse to accept the amendments that the Change Movement has often tabled, as today, for their inclusion in heavy and unhealthy, to grant an allowance to those who are on the front line, to recognise COVID as an occupational disease, to self-tax revenue from newspapers. Finally, I would like to ask a question. What, really, is your vision and plan for health, Minister? We haven't figured it out yet. Only arrangements and management have been seen so far in the bills you're downloading. No reform, no upgrading of the health system for the benefit of the country and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr. Francis. We're going to Zakynthos, Mr. Dionysios Vinci from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, given the unprecedented health crisis that our country is going through, I do not think anyone can think that such bills that come to the Greek Parliament and strengthen the national health system are not important. The Latsi Joint Foundation also supports and practically strengthens public health in our country. We must therefore also thank the Latsis Foundation and Mrs Latsis for having 4 million to strengthen the national health system. At this point you will allow me to emphasise the fundamental importance and decisive role that the private initiative has played, of course, always along with the direct reaction of the government and the decisive steps that Greece has taken to ensure that it is still an example in Europe in terms of dealing with coronary disease. As far as the second part of the bill we are discussing is concerned, we must stress that, once again, arrangements are introduced which aim at the proper and effective functioning of the hospitals and the supervised bodies of the Ministry of Health. In this context it is extended for a year, that is, until 31 December 2021, the full discharge from the participation of the pharmaceutical expenditure of those beneficiaries who were deprived of the CSCE, which we all remember who finally cut it: SYRIZA. In other words, the commitment of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to maintain the favourable status of 2020 and concerns hundreds of thousands of low pensioners who will also have their medicine this year without any charge of their own. In addition, I would like to stress that, on the basis of the provisions of the present, in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the vaccination programme, there is a six-day operation of vaccination centres and, at the same time, there is the possibility - which we see positive at the moment, because it is an emergency - that in the case of vaccinations the health regions may carry personnel to support vaccination centres. However, I would like to say a few words about the criticisms made at every level by the Qualified Opposition. The government is strongly criticised for managing the health crisis, the number of cases, the course of vaccinations, the course of the economy, the management of bilateral relations with Turkey and any other issue relating to the policies implemented by that government. However, I would say that there in SYRIZA you should not have realised that it is shouting for anyone who has no good arguments and that is proven every day. I will give one or two examples. You are striving to demonstrate the failure, as you have said, of managing the health crisis by the government, at the same time that even today, when you see it, the maps presented by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control show with official evidence that Greece is one of the few areas in Europe where the epidemiological load is so low that we have areas that are characterised as green. We are the only country that has green areas. I would also like to mention and recall that, on 12-12-2020 in plenary, the former Deputy Minister, Mr Paulakis, said this and, of course, continues to do so today. He said that the country does not have infrastructure to welcome its PFIZER vaccine. The vaccine's here. The infrastructure is there. Transport is excellent. But the dangers were well done then. Then he told us that vaccination may not be necessary in Thessaloniki. He also told us that the medicine was found and that the irreversible government does not bring it and prefers people to die. It doesn't matter, of course, that the drug has not been authorised. That's a little bit of a problem. If it were government, they'd bring it. He told us that he could come to Greece without approval, because he learned that some vaccines have already come in Greece. When? When there were no infrastructure and no approvals for vaccines. Whatever! I say again: Whatever! You'll tell us where they're taking it? What do they want to tell us? They want to tell us that we are supposed to support vaccines - and many times today they have meant it - to serve the interests of pharmaceutical companies and that is why we are not bringing the medicine, which is supposed to be cheaper. And with that reason they want to contribute to the fight against pandemic is supposed to. So they want to tell us and convince us that all the governments of the world have found them with the pharmaceutical companies. But who really can believe you? Actually, you're both in favor of the vaccine and against it. Why are you doing this? But I do not think we should look for any serious explanations: just because otherwise - and this is the right one - the government claims that we will eventually get out of this pandemic and get back to normality through vaccination, you need to be differentiated and tell us, listen to us, that we have also found the medicine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u296	Okay, I'm sorry now. You're saying we're against the vaccines? Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u297	Mr President, I heard Mr. Giannoulis say what he could imagine of human mind...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u298	But you're lying! Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u299	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u300	Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u301	I'm the one who's here, please. Don't lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u302	Mr Giannoulis, I have not interrupted you, and please do not interrupt me. A little respect, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u303	Carry on, Mr. Cape.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u304	And now look at what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u305	Patriot rowers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u306	Greece follows the global scientific community and SYRIZA wants Greece to follow its own path. All the countries of the world, in other words, are following the same path, and here we are going to have to follow the different path. That reminds us of something. It reminds us of what SYRIZA wanted to do in the past few years and we almost got to pay it with catastrophic results. You will shortly tell us that only you can save not only Greece, but the whole of mankind. It is a pity that they have not found you yet to tell them how the rest of the countries can be saved, as it turns out. You're talking about a plan. In a dynamic crisis like pandemic, you want to say that you have a plan - we all know the plan - which in one hour - not one day - the data can have changed. Do you know what each of us thinks? "Think if they ruled, what would happen." The reality is disgusting to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u307	It would save more people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u308	Mr. Giannoulis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u309	Well, your rudeness, Mr. Giannoulis... You do it all the time in the morning shops. But here, it's not a breakfast store. Here, it's Parliament's plenary. Show some respect. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u310	Mr. Cape, go on. You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u311	The reality is disgusting to you. If you continue in this way, and now in plenary, you will find yourself in the lower steps of the public scaffolding. From the beginning of the pandemic you are trying to convince us to use the 37 billion-dollar pillow, what you have created since the overtaxation of the low-retired and middle-class pensioners, the bloody surplus. So we didn't use it. We supported all those affected. And we will have it, as will 70 billion, to relaunch the economy. You must realise that this government, despite the difficulties it has successfully encountered, will continue to implement its reform programme without delay. And you must understand that, because only then may you perhaps stand up to the circumstances and manage to conduct a serious and thorough policy. In conclusion, as a doctor who has spent most of his life serving Greek public health, I should stress that the National Health System has at his disposal excellent scientists and nurses who daily fight to ensure the health of all of us. At the moment, there is no doubt that we have been experiencing the biggest health crisis in the past 100 years. And it is true that the tolerances and limits of the National Health System are tested daily. However, the New Democracy Government has managed to ensure the best possible care conditions for patients and significantly improve the level of medical services in our country. In an effort we could not ignore the remarkable assistance of the public institutions. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u312	Be well, Mr. Cape. Thank you, too. Mr. Emmanuel Thraniotis has the floor from SYRIZA and the beautiful Lasithi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin with a comment on what the previous colleague said in his closure. I would like to agree that we will get away from the memos. The problem is how to get away from the memos. And because there has been a little provocative, I would like to point out that the fact that the fact that it belongs to us has been governed and bankrupt the country. It is true, Mr President, that 11 months after the first lockdown, the government is trying to balance between health and the economy. Unfortunately, neither in the economy nor in health does it. Of the official figures available, some seven hundred thousand companies that have applied for the repayment of about three hundred thousand have been rejected. I'm talking about the National Health System. The proposal, prepared by the SYRIZA Government, has been frozen for ten thousand recruitments to strengthen the public health system. Today, we are called upon to cancel a donation between the Joint Benefit Foundation "Ioannis S. Latsi" and the General Hospital of Athens, as well as the donation between Anna - Maria - Louisa Ioannis Latsis and the Greek State, the 4th Ministry of the Environment and the Hospital of Thessaloniki. Let me make it clear before I move on to welcome the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe which accepted by a overwhelming majority an amendment from the Group of the European Left which it adopted - and adopts - that Alexis Tsipras' proposal to treat vaccines against the coronary as a public good. With regard to free, no doubt this is a significant funding aimed at strengthening the specific public health services structures in infrastructure and technology, especially in a difficult health and economic period due to the pandemic, as well as the corresponding one signed in difficult, also, conditions due to memoranda from the previous SYRIZA government with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, worth $400 million. Are donations capable of strengthening the public health system by themselves, however? Obviously not. In addition to the necessary logistical infrastructure for the operation of health services units, staffing with human resources, medical, nursing and other personnel are essential. The staff who have kept the public health system up, who have lifted up - and lifted up - the weight of the health crisis, which measure losses at the time of duty are those who were applauding when things were going well. When they began to make it difficult and to reach their limits because of increased needs and lack of staff, irony and threats began. From the "we won't keep the market shut because you..." the doctors, that is, "you want to be sure, spooky and handsome", pointed out journalist on a television channel, we got up until the announcement of NOTH Rethymnon that they had pictures of doctors who submitted their resignations and supported the doctor who was summoned to apology. This reminds of something from the worst periods of Greek history. It is clear, however, that there is not only a different approach, but also a conflict of views and policies with regard to the provision of health services to citizens. The different and individual provisions of the Health Act confirm our criticism of the absence of a serious, long-term and coherent national infrastructure upgrading plan of the ESS so that all financial instruments can be used by the State, the Public Investment Programme including donations, the European Funds and, in particular, the Recovery Fund. In this context, it is imperative that there should be a gradual increase in the proportion of gross national product for health from about 5% now in order to reach 7%, which is the average of the countries of the European Union, so as to strengthen the system in staff, infrastructure and strengthen research and new technologies. Primary health care and prevention can contribute to improving the health of the population, providing important medical care and services, while at the same time dismantling the hospital burdens due to the conditions of hospitals. I shall end, Mr President, with a reference to Lassithi. The fact is that until early January, Lassithi County had few or no coronary cases. However, the sudden and abrupt increase in the cases in Palekastro Sitia has caused weaknesses, shortcomings, mismanagement of the operation of the interconnected hospitals, with the reaction of the workers to the administration at the Ierapetra Hospital, the option not to strengthen the Intensive Therapy Unit COVID -19 at the General Hospital of Agios Nikolaos, resulting in the movement of personnel from other departments and the normal sections to remain operational. A characteristic example is the movement of the director of TDIs to the local health unit. There is therefore a lack of emergency even of notices of medical and nursing staff causing concern and concern for the citizens at a time when problems in the prefecture are increasing, while the third wave is expected. The image of the state of staff now takes its true form: mismanagement, lack of design, customer ruptures, threats and bias in favour of the few. Mr President, I would like you to give me some time to support an amendment that we have tabled and which concerns strengthening the allowance for 2020 and only the insured people for the first time. There is this paradox that the Prime Minister has also admitted, who said he will give a solution. In 2020, the allowance will be granted only with fifty days. However, there is also one category of workers, young workers, young women who have become pregnant, young workers who have cancelled their military obligations and cannot have the eighty-digit wages required by the law to pay the fifty-digit allowance. We therefore propose that the amendment we are tabling should be accepted so that these groups of workers in food and tourism can also survive. And I would ask the Minister to accept the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u314	Thank you very much, Mr Thraniotis. Let's leave the beautiful Lasithi and go north in Kosani, Mrs. Friday Brizidou from New Democracy. To prepare Mr Baran, Mr Triantafylides - well, he was born! - and we'll hang up with Mrs. Lykouley. Here, Mrs. Brysidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill ratifys the Latis Foundation's donation agreement to the General Hospital, as well as Anna Latsis's donation agreement at the "Heavenly" Hospital, the anticancer hospital in Thessaloniki. In particular, EUR 2 million and EUR 2 million respectively will be provided, in the case of hospitals for the emergency incidents of the General Hospital, in which they will be renovated, supported and modernised, so that they operate and provide their services to the citizens. Also, the "Geature" Hospital has a building, which is located in Pylea and can be renovated with this budget, so that it can be used for daily hospitals, a very important intervention that is useful to people, who after their immunity and examination will require chemo therapy. The hospital in Thessaloniki, "Theamenio", has recorded about sixty thousand cancer patients annually, of which forty-five thousand need daily hospitalization and chemotherapies. I would also like to mention an important and difficult chapter on cancer patients, given that we are talking about this donation and say that we must also attach importance to this chapter, because the scourge is enormous. There are our fellow citizens who pass this Golgotha. And, as happened in COVID, informing the citizens of what methodology they will take to protect - and indeed citizens have found a solution, since they have chosen it, because they were informed - so there should also be a campaign on cancer so that there can be prevention, early diagnosis, as well as a diet and a route such as to have fewer incidents. Of course, it was badly commented on the information as if the problem was that information was given to some media and was not in itself an important result, because, of course, some Members believe that because we are talking in this House and we are hearing and being informed, every citizen at the most distant point can know exactly what he should notice and especially what he should do in relation to his or her health and life. That is why I think this chapter is very important and we should look at it. I also praise and encourage the movement that is being made to update vaccination, because again the citizens will be responsible when they choose something they know. If they don't know, we're the ones who didn't care to give them adequate knowledge. I would also like to refer to my region, the Kozani Regional Unit, a region with a very long lockdown, where there have been measures to prevent the spread of the virus. Of course, I would like to praise the Ministry of Health for having accepted our suggestions to help and address this problem in our region. We have proposed, in addition to incarceration, that vaccination centres have an increased number of vaccines so that we can prevent the spread of the virus. So for seven days, as in the other hospitals, vaccination is taking place all day, we can have a significant number of people who are protected. We also asked for strict monitoring of dissemination, so that we could know exactly where everyone is going to go before they know that they are weak, as well as a greater number of controls. We also insist that the more tests are carried out, the better the situation can be dealt with. Of course, we have also asked the other ministries, such as the Ministry of Development, and increased financial support for the problem. And now in the second chapter on seven subsections and thirty-three articles, from which I will first distinguish the support of the low-pension and the people who have lost their NSA through life, who, for one year, for 2021, will be able to take their medicines without the same participation. I would also mention that all efforts to strengthen hospitals with staff, nurses and doctors are important. Many subsidiary doctors and nurses have already been hired. Recruitment from these tables continues and other methodologies have been found so that we can have more staff, such as the doctors who have applied to hospitals for their specialty directly, so that they can strengthen the system with more doctors, as well as the radiologists to get rid of the rural obligation so that they too can directly enter hospitals. One important chapter, too, is the issue of transplants. In Greece, we don't have much of a percentage. Of course we know that it is a methodology that helps citizens and saves lives. So there has to be a push. And with this bill, anyone who has an emotional and friendly, not necessarily relative, with a citizen who needs to be able to give him organs to help him save his life and improve the quality of his life. And if it is not compatible, it can do so and will be prioritised in the respective patient waiting register. All these are important chapters, which support health. And now I would like to conclude by making a more general reference to health care and, more generally, to the Government's choices in this pandemic. I think it is hypocrisy and wrong to judge a government which is facing an unprecedented crisis, which states organised, better economic conditions and hospitals very well organised have not been able to deal with. The government has supported every citizen. He took action at the right time. He has organised the ICUs very quickly, so that each patient can find support and assistance. What's been wrong all this time? And of course, in the second wave, with hospitals organized, it pulled daily life and function as far as possible. Because a country clearly cannot be dismantled for huge periods. We hear positions that judge the government for the measures and for the patients, who are many - those who have suffered - or are referring to those who have lost their lives, and at the same time there is displeasure about the people who have been forced to close their shops, such as those of the focus, who have been financially burdened. We can't both agree. We either have to choose one or the other. I therefore think that the world is indignant and is in a difficult situation because of the virus, because this pandemic is tragic, it obviously causes us malfunctions and we feel very bad. The world, however, is not displeased by the government and Mr Mitsotakis, because he has understood that at a time when there were no problems we could have neither doctors nor proper care. Today, with such problems, I think there is safety and adequacy and the citizen feels satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mrs. Brysidou. And we're going to Xanthi, to Mr. Burhan Baran from the Change Movement, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u317	Good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not my intention to tire you out, but to address each of you separately in asking for your attention, since our country today has the need for a strategic plan to prevent and protect our citizens, by addressing the problems caused by the Coronovirus, by the collective effort of all of us, all the political parties, the scientific community and all the stakeholders. We as a Change Movement welcome the specific donations as amidst the huge health crisis and pandemic, which we have been going through, the contribution of the "Joannis Latsis" Foundation and Mrs Latsis is vital to a fragmented health system that has been in our country for many years. With regard to the other provisions relating to the Ministry of Health and which the government is trying to introduce with this bill we have already tabled our views through our rapporteur, Mr Poula, who was quite clear in his positions. As a psychiatrist, I would like once again to smash the alarm over what I see not only myself but my other colleagues. I experience the isolation of my fellow citizens every day, their fear of tomorrow's day and the despair that leads to mental illness. The uncertainty about tomorrow causes huge psychological problems. And all this while once again financing mental health policies is moving very low. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already pointed out since the Step of the House, the need to finance the mental health sectors is immediate because, according to the World Health Organisation, the disastrous impact of the coronary on people's mental health is apparent when the needs are increasing. Unfortunately, the government says that it increased the budget for the financing of mental health to a great extent. Basically it reached 2%, which is the minimum limit proposed by the World Health Organisation. And I take this opportunity at this point to give you another thought of me. The third wave, Mr Minister, is before our gates and we all know it very well. The question, however, is whether you have launched a serious plan to deal with it. What have you done with the hospitals, what about the ICUs, as the increase in cases shows again her threatening face? And at this point I would like you to tell us what you have predicted for vaccinations of elderly people who have no attendant, for those who are in beds and who do not have the opportunity to move from and from hospitals to hospitals and for people with the same difficulty. Take proper advantage of this difficult moment of the 'Help at Home' programme to help transfer people who cannot be transported for vaccination at the appropriate date, of course. Help all these people who need a decent living and health care. They are not appalling, ladies and gentlemen of the government. They could also be members of our family. And at this point I would not be able to refer to the health staff of the ERC, who are all at the moment of the pandemic, on the front line of the race to deal with the coronary. This fact has been recognised many times by the government in words, but in practice we have not seen it. It does not appear willing to recognise it, as it has not taken any decision in the direction of practical support for the health staff of the country's public health structures. We as a Change Movement, fully aware of the need to strengthen and upgrade health workers, have repeatedly tabled amendments to the House concerning the inclusion of public health staff in the heavy and unhealthy health sector, which the government has never accepted. Do you ever intend to go into direct legislation in order to finally introduce these categories of workers into the heavy and unhealthy professions or are you just going to be deaf? I have already mentioned a large proportion of our fellow citizens, people with whom I personally have association in mountainous areas and not just in Xanthi, who have exposed their anxiety and concern to me. But until today, we have not seen any strategic planning on your part. You must act immediately and crucially. On this occasion I would like to say that in addition to all of this, I would also like to refer to the large number of doctors who are waiting for recognition of their diploma by the IATAP and who have been in hostage for so long. These people we could put them in the health system we need. I also wanted to refer to the particularity of our region, in particular the community of Echinos, which in the first wave of pandemic was beaten by the virus, but stood on its feet. Now, however, the good news is that not a single case is in the second wave of pandemic. This is where we scientists can draw a lot of conclusions. And I would say that universities, the health system, have come to conduct scientific studies on the development and duration of this automatic immunity, measuring antibodies at regular intervals. What we need - and we demand - is a national plan to support our country and get out of the crisis in a direct and substantial way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr Baran, and respect for the time. We proceed with Alexandros Triantafylides, MP of Thessaloniki of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening from Thessaloniki. I am speaking from Thessaloniki where the government's security, the government's inability and the government's uselessness have made it a rugged city. It is clear that both the Prime Minister's confession to his trilogy in relation to "In Thessaloniki we fell out", as well as the retrospective confession - apology of the Minister of Development, that they have chosen other priorities for the health of the citizens of Thessaloniki, making it necessary and necessary, at least at this very hour, to show a spirit of response to what needs to be done. Unfortunately, however, they are unrepentant. They are unrepentantly unprepared, unrepentantly clipping, unrepentantly unorganized. Of course, political responsibilities are clear and now the ongoing investigation of justice shows what was to blame - we have sent the relevant evidence - and led us to the hundreds of dead from Thessaloniki and Macedonia. And I say 'Great', because the questions raised by all my fellow Members from Opposition, by all the parties in opposition, were not answered. Mass tests for all citizens free. Where is he? Mass vaccinations for free. Where is he? At the beginning of December, they used to bully us. They kept asking us, "Would you be vaccinated?", "Would you be vaccinated?", "Would you be vaccinated?". And finally, since under the mandates and instructions of the experts - only what the experts, the relevant Committee of the Ministry of Health - said 'Yes, we will be vaccinated', there have been no vaccines for months. Today, the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, said - listen to the gravitational expression - 'Whatever vaccines come from and will be done'. This is where philosophy escapes. We're looking to find endemic and inner thinking. We left the two million vaccines that would come every month, as you told us in December, and we went to the “as many vaccines as are coming”. Gentlemen of government, be serious and rule. You cannot hide behind the wrong negotiations by the European Commission. On 13 December you invited all the representatives of the pharmaceutical companies - and MODERNA - and PFIZER and BIONTECH - where the leaders are, in fact, Greek. What happened to that meeting, which you sold in communications and said you had a direct relationship and contact with the Greeks of origin head? And they're worthy of it. And we are all proud that they have succeeded and are in this position. Will you use this element? For the merchants of Thessaloniki, the professionals of Thessaloniki, the craftsmen of Thessaloniki, the people of the focus of Thessaloniki, every man, every worker in the private sector and also in the public sector, are waiting for this much-conscious immunity of the community. On the basis of the twenty thousand vaccinations you make every day, Mr. Kontozamani, in immunity 60% of the six million Greek citizens will arrive in the beginning of 2022. Is that your target? We're really waiting, we're waiting. And came the strong message of the Council of Europe that adopted Alexis Tsipras' proposal yesterday. And I personally am proud that I signed up as a member of the Greek delegation and of the SYRIZA delegation on the United European Left, at the United European Left, which unanimously adopted Alexis Tsipras' proposal to release the patents - I informed him two days ago, through my question, when representatives of pharmaceutical companies were there - with seventy-seven MPs from the national parliaments forty-seven countries - and from the European People's Party and from the Socialist Democrats and Greens - to vote for the proposal with only sixteen against. And, of course, the abstentions to judge them. I say this to respond to a number of colleagues who say: 'Let's move on together', 'Let's move on together. Yeah, move on together. Clearly. On the forehead of life we're all from here, and the forehead of life is across the coronary. But when you say 'United' you mean behind your own proposals, when you propose them and submit them. When they are proposals from parties in opposition, then you plead abstention. Is that what you mean by 'united'? The other Members of the European People's Party have exceeded any micro-party feasibility or socialists, social democrats and Greens and have voted in favour of the proposal. It was a proposal that, if you would like, by bringing it to the second meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, when I asked the two representatives of pharmaceutical companies, Mr Papadimitriou - I read from the Minutes - said: 'If there is reason and we want it to be discussed, it is to be discussed at European level'. That's what we did. We have brought Alexis Tsipras' proposal at European level. And the encouragement of the plenary of the Council of Europe, the General Assembly, is to the forty-seven Member States, but also of the European Union, to speed up and release - as a mot - and to overcome the obstacles and constraints arising from patents - patents and intellectual property rights in order to ensure the wide production and distribution of vaccines in all European countries and all citizens. It is the 7.1.7 paragraph of document 15202, Amendment 3, which was voted in the European Parliament. And that's all it was? Is the expression of a political perception of the area of democratic, progressive, left-wing, green space just an expression of mood? SANOFI - now we are talking about multinationals, now we are talking about interests - and what did her representative, Olivier Boziyo, say, speaking on a European channel? He said Sanofi would take over the last stages of the vaccine preparation, so that more than a hundred and twenty-five million doses of the vaccine against COVID -19 will be provided in the European Union. And Olivier Boziyo himself notes that production for a competitor is something that is done for the first time. For the first time they perceive the huge, the global dimension, that everyone must rush and contribute. This is the creative, fertilizing proposal put forward at European level by Alexis Tsipras, so that this movement can actually be created. Because we are talking about the Holy Grail of the interests of what we have just mentioned and about the vaccine. The professional, the dealer, the craftsman, the hotel clerk, the catererer who cares to hurry quickly. Take advantage of the possibilities, contacts, contact with the heads of Greek origin of pharmaceutical companies. Participating in European contributors and contracts, but, at the same time, as Greece, look to see how we can do this faster and safer. Is it safer? Mr. Contozamani, how do you hear me now, exactly how do you explain that the eighteenth vaccination centres were finally made in hospitals? You forbid patients from visiting hospitals...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u320	And finish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u321	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your understanding. ...but you're telling the vaccination centers within hospitals to go people eighty and eighty-five years to do the relevant vaccines. Hurry up! Go, go, go, go, go, go! Take advantage of the opportunities available, as well as this creative mood from all opposition parties. Mass tests for free. Where is he? Mass free vaccinations. Where is he? To shield and strengthen the ESS, there are proposals for heavy and unhealthy, as well as for our own, but also for other parties in the counter-population. With regard to overtime, the permanentization of subsidiary and contract doctors, nurses and so on, when are you going to do this? And I shall end, Mr President, with one question. I challenge, in the good sense, Mr. Contozamani. Mr. Kontozamanis, on 8 January 2021 you told ERT a journalist's question about Mr. Mosialos' proposal, which Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself supported in an article with Mr. Mosilos in a German newspaper in April 2020. It was therefore something that found us in agreement. What changed, Mr Kontozamanis and a week later, on 15 January, Mr Mitsotakis, the proposal in question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u322	Thank you very much, Mr Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u323	What phone did some particular people, as I imagine, get into it? But you'll tell us if that's the case, because you're the voice of the government, having made you the Deputy Minister. And I'm not saying all the rest that I've asked you 15 times for Thessaloniki, like opening the "Smooth" and which you didn't open.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u324	Mr. Triantafylide, please, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u325	I also asked you to open up the old 424 General Military Hospital of Education. You didn't open it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Triantafylides, please don't abuse my sympathy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u327	I shall now conclude, Mr President, with one phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Triantafylides, you have already said that three times!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u329	Push and give strength, multiply, deal with the gaps, weaknesses and shortcomings and work against the highest public good, which is the good of health.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u330	Thank you very much. And we will close the curtain of the speakers with Mrs. Evangelia Lykoulis from the Change Movement. Here, Mrs Liikali, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u331	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will take the baton from my colleague and last speaker and say that, as we actually talk, we are not talking online now, I do not think the government is ruling. The government rules, and even governs in its own way, in the way it has chosen. The government rules, just as it began to rule. So he continues to rule, with his logic of "seeing and doing", giving a huge weight to the communication logic of each thing and, of course, legislating many times on his knee and provocatively, if I may say with all the sympathy to your face, Minister. And I say this, because you bring a bill with the logic of 'twins and bricks and woods and horns', i.e. two parts, the second with seven chapters and with a large number of unrelated issues, such as donations from private public institutions, the EEA, the private clinics from the third, the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, the National Transplant Organisation, the medical staff of the HSY, and even for the OTAs, my object, which I think I really should not say anything about the extensions of the deadlines for undeclared squares of the citizens and so on. All this, in a phase of pandemic, which I think is perhaps one of the largest or largest - this will be judged - a crisis of post-population, it is really indicative of the way you think, of the way in which you understand Parliament's work. And I do, after almost two years, still think I have the right to say that Parliament is really unacceptable. But I'm on my way, actually. We are at the heart of a pandemic, where, of course, the bill you bring with all these provisions that I have said is natural that it will be in the shadow of this pandemic, because the coronary crisis has multiple side effects at all levels. It has side effects that require, Mr Minister, an integrated plan. We're talking about a plan that the Change Movement proposed to you, after he asked you and found out you don't. And this plan proposed to you in all areas and with proposals for the ESS, for which, at the bottom of the scripture, we have a reason above, let me say, because the ESS was a huge reform that we brought to the health sector, we founded, inspired, visioned and continued to support. I am talking about this ESS which last year just before the pandemic, early February, I remind you that your Ministry had visited my area, the area of Larissa, so when you said things round, as our Regional Hospital should be a pilot - private hospital. Then you turned it around, because you saw that it wasn't going well in the pandemic. So, what's going on now? It's a conspicuous plan we don't see. What we see is the intangible backwards, which you are accustomed to. But these, my Minister, are fond of the idea of a nationwide effort. And some people are now beginning to ask: 'What do you say we are all together?', 'All together with what exactly?'. So what exactly are we all together? The eighteen vaccination centres you finally didn't make? What were we telling you to put in the primary school and you're deciding to put it now, so long after? For the IDs that we measure, do you count them and don't come out? For the strikers who went out of the hospitals, did they go down banners and show their feet that they're wearing trash bags to deal with clinical COVID? For the forty-five-year-old woman found in complete rigidity hours under the bed in a CIVID clinic and should the universe be raised? These are few of the incidents that are indicative of whether there is really a plan and what you say 'you blame us and what to do, the pandemic, the sudden, etc.'. Yes, of course. And look, you're talking about the Change Movement that at least we've put back on the history of the pandemic. We were the first to come out in the first phase of the pandemic, and we said that the government managed the emergency conditions, they are urgent, they are special, they are specific. But, Minister, until when? And by the time you say it and get it back? There is an invisible fear of death that has erupted and spread everywhere in the world, a fear that is often exploited, because no one can speak when it is with the back of the wall. But further to this very fear, you do absolutely nothing. And you're going to let me say that for all of this you found something to say today, but it didn't break anything to get into any mental health provisions for a psychological background that you should have already worked out. In the midst of this superstition of provisions there was little room for the huge chapter of mental health. And I am talking about the mental health for which the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) assembled on 13 November, and no reply has been received, because I imagine you have no answer to give. And we draw attention to you, because at the moment the situation is'red', Minister, and people cannot stand it. We go back to the streets and we see people in our regions and we bring a message with friendship and not a "population". We bring it to you with friendship to integrate it into your policies, because it is not just the vaccine, which we do not have. There are all the things that the pandemic has brought in and sustains. As far as the vaccine to which I referred and on the 'day', on'seeing and doing' with citizens' vaccinations, I would like to highlight something I always say in my public places. When we talk to the citizens, we should be honest. Why should we all be honest, of course starting first from myself and then from everyone else, about the whole political system? Because politics is education, it trains citizens, it smells to them, and the political system is being called into question or devalued accordingly with what it says and how consistent it is in what it says. So, as far as citizens' vaccinations are concerned, the last issue, this ten-day delayed embolism, is all that has arisen? So, my Minister, would you like to tell us that you have an integrated vaccination plan and the vaccination centres? So if a 50-year-old asks you when it's his turn to be vaccinated, apart from planning, emergency, postponing the vaccines, etc., you can tell him? When a twenty-five-year-old asks when he will be vaccinated, when did you plan it, regardless of whether he'll go later because the vaccines are being delayed, do you have such a plan for the vaccines? You didn't have one. You don't have a plan! As soon as I was in a written question to you yesterday, I raised the matter in the context of parliamentary scrutiny. I raised the question of what this plan is and how this is going on, because in our own system and in my area, in the Larissa Prefecture, we sometimes have closed platforms and sometimes we have hospitals that do not open their surgery and close the door to them, waiting for the third wave of pandemic. What do you have to say about that? Do you, too, have a design on how to deal with it? The problematic process of supplying vaccines from the European Union is at present a reason but also a strong alibi to the government. But it is not an alibi to delay this planning. If tomorrow, in other words, all the doses of the vaccines are actually taken, by hand in the heart, Mr Minister, away from and beyond the question of procurement, you have a plan with which to calculate exactly when each citizen will be vaccinated without an underlying illness, subject to a disease, in the groups that we have proposed and so on.Huh? Listen, there's a huge vaccination issue. You know it, too, we know it. There are large units right now with great dangers, as they are...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u332	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u333	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...healthy units, penitentiaries, migration units, which are necessarily unable to implement individual protection and isolation measures and are actually in the air. Is there a plan for all these people? We asked you a question about the private doctors you hadn't even put them on the platforms, you didn't even have them included in your design. You kept a treatment for these people who we do not think were fair and moral when you said that with the first small symptoms you would go to your family doctor and you would not go to hospitals. And I shall end, Mr President, by saying that at the moment we are discussing donations for which the same thing is actually happening as with vaccination. You have never included them in an integrated national aid plan and the National Health and Criminology of Donations' Profitability, which we should have seen and the political system incorporated it. When these are not done and when there is no national plan for them, then, Minister, fateful what are you doing? You try all of this world - boiling down and getting up slowly and you see it - limiting and closing it and not getting out on the road. But you, Minister, have your own story with your government in this government. But don't forget that the road has its own story. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mrs. Liikali. We're done with the speakers. We'll get to the parliamentary representatives. One of them will speak from two to three minutes. First of all, however, the ministers will speak in order to support the amendments. We'll start from the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr. Stylianos Pechas. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to support two amendments to the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, 723/129, and 732/136. As regards the first of the two, the proposed provision of Article 2 of Amendment 723/129, which was tabled on 26-1-2021 in the draft law of the Ministry of Health which we are debating today, concerns the granting of extensions of time-limits laid down by law. More specifically, I would remind you that Article 51(2) of Law No4647/2019 laid down, inter alia, the deadline for the conclusion of the liquidation by the financial services of the municipality of the declarations of citizens to determine the extent and the use of real estate for the purposes of calculating taxes, fees and contributions to TA I, without the imposition of fines for the debtors, i.e. the deadline for clearing the so-called declarations on undeclared squares. With the opportunity given to the citizens to submit these statements by them, without the risk of imposing fines, our Government has solved a problem of years for the benefit of both municipalities and citizens. The above provision stipulates that the time limit of the municipalities for completing the clearance of declarations and the maximum duration of fixed-term employment contracts concluded for the recruitment of personnel of the ICM or of any specialty for those purposes is to be completed at the end of this month of January 2021, i.e. 31 January 2021. Due to the volume of work to be accomplished by the competent authorities as the citizens embraced this beneficial measure, the economic services of ATO I have not completed the necessary tasks to clear statements. The proposed regulation therefore extends the deadlines for the clearance of declarations by two months, up to 31 March 2021, and enable Otto I to extend existing works contracts at the same time or conclude new contracts of two months' validity for the completion of the necessary liquidation work. What do we do? We are giving an additional extension to correct the relevant statements when we have already offered permanent relief for citizens and a permanent increase in revenue for the municipalities. With regard to the second amendment, Mr President, the proposed provision of Article 9 of Amendment No 732/136 concerns the granting of an extension of legislation to facilitate the implementation of two-year compulsory pre-school education throughout the territory for the benefit of local communities and, in particular, the apprenticeship community. In particular, Article 34(4) of Law No.4704/2020 was suspended until the beginning of the school year 2021-2022 the start of the two-year pre-school education in specific municipalities which constitute the most densely populated municipalities of the territory, i.e. the Municipality of Athens, Painting, Kalithea, Nea Smyrna Attica and Neapolis of Thessaloniki. These large urban TOD I are faced with problems of insurmountable difficulty, taking into account their specificity to find available school accommodation facilities. For this reason, Article 24(1) of Law 2490/2020 stipulates that ATTs may award public procurement contracts for pre-pre-school education, related materials, services and works for their placement, as well as the equipment required for their operation in case C(c)(2) of Article 32 of Law 4412/2016 in order to meet the needs for the necessary rooms for the implementation of two-year pre-school education for the school year, namely 2020-2021. These needs were over-intensive due to the continuation for the school year of the extraordinary conditions experienced by our country because of the coronary pandemic and which prevented the above municipalities from finding measures to implement universally mandatory two-year pre-school education. As the issue is urgent, with this Article we ensure the immediate extension of the implementation of the infrastructure for the implementation of the two-year compulsory pre-school education and for the school year 2021-2022 and allow Otto I to plan and implement the necessary measures to meet the relevant needs in school accommodation. In particular, by virtue of the provisions of Article 9, first, of Article 20 of Law No 4610/2019 concerning the implementation of two-year pre-school education, it is extended from its expiry until 31 December 2021, that is to say, the provision now covers decisions on the award of pre-pre-fabricated school-leaving rooms with the necessary auxiliary facilities to be notified to contractors up to and including 31 December 2021 and, secondly, the validity of Article 24 of Law No 4690/2020 to meet the needs of grade 1 in pre-school school-leaving rooms is extended for the school year 2021-2022. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Minister. Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis has the floor for Amendment No 726/130.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, some legislative improvements to the draft law, which I will table in the Minutes for next year's economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u338	I would also like to say that we are accepting the ministerial amendments with a general and specific number respectively 723/129, 726/130 and 732/136 which are set out in Part II of the bill, Chapter I: 'Other urgent provisions'. Amendments Nos 726 and 732 concerning provisions relating to the Ministry of Health are urgent arrangements for the Ministry of Health, particularly with regard to the management of issues during the koruna season. Among other things, they regulate drug issues, recognition of pre-service years in the management of bodies, reimbursement of costs of military hospitals of the Medieval Military Institute, units and programs of psychosocial rehabilitation that have to do with increasing hospitals, issues of chronic dialysis units, legalisation of costs for the purchase of the active substance remdecvir, minimally necessary tests of rapid molecular tests, well-known rapid tests, recruitment of medical and other personnel to reception and identification centres and pre-registered detention centres, participation of pharmacists in the functioning of the system and management platform of vaccination sessions, and issues related to the management of the National Register of Patients from Coronary COVID -19. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u339	Thank you very much, Mr Contozamanis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u340	Mr President, may I have the floor for the amendment we have tabled?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u341	Yes, of course, Mr. Bright.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr President. It does not concern the amendments supported by the Minister, but it concerns the amendment tabled by the Communist Party, Minister, on the possibility, of converting into full-time employment the rotation of workers not included in the 2016 Act, which was amended in 2017 respectively. It concerns a group of workers at OTAs I and II with intermittent work, i.e. in fact one day a week a week, namely four days a month, where, through the proposed amendment, the relevant municipal council, or the regional board, or the respective board of directors of the legal person of the municipality concerned who are working, can increase their working hours and, of course, their salaries. It is a complement to this, an amendment that comes to add to these workers the opportunity to offer more hours to the municipalities and regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, too, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, can I have the floor for a few minutes only for Mr Kontozamani's amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u345	All right, Mr. Katrin, you have the floor as Parliamentary representative of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u346	I just want to say about the health ministry's amendments, the second essential one, which includes part of Mr Petsas' analysis, that, unfortunately, the Ministry of Health on serious issues - to which we agree, Minister, on substance - you choose to bring them back in time for the third time. I remind you: The first was when on November 5 you brought the recruitments of doctors and nurses to the ICU. The second was on December 22nd, a few minutes before the House closed, when you brought fourteen articles on how to carry out vaccinations, and today, two hours before the meeting ended, you are bringing a procedure to make it self-evident, that is to say, to recruit staff for the vaccination centres, for the General Secretariat of the Primary Council, which will make them available to vaccination centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u347	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u348	Watch out, Mr. Contozamani, what you're doing. On an issue on which there could be broad consensus, and have entered the bill from the beginning, and been voted on, you come into one, in two, and you bring such arrangements. That is why we, while agreeing with the substance, will vote 'at present' for the specific amendments, precisely because we disagree with the methodology. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u349	Thank you very much, Mr Katrin. Mrs. Apajidis has the floor from Mera25. Mrs. Apajidis, you have time, because she has spoken less than everyone, the truth is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have much to add to my initial position, just to highlight the reasons why Mera25 will vote 'present' in principle, such as 'present' we will vote on all three amendments tabled. It goes without saying that we will not vote against specific other provisions which, if they are seen individually and without the wider framework in which they fall within them, constitute fragmentary improvements. It would be a great mistake, however, to take this as a message that we do not see, that we do not understand the broader context. To sum up, this framework consists, firstly, of the work of the pandemic crisis, which is used as an opportunity and an excuse by the government for further orientation in the private sector. In this context, the role of either the business demon or the generosity of the private donor is being worked. Secondly, it consists of the institutional assumption of the state's inability to secure citizens' rights, by fulfilling its constitutional tasks, on such a crucial issue as health and even in the midst of a pandemic crisis. Anything we owe to the generosity of private donors cannot be counted as a success of the state and government. On the contrary, it must be understood as a confession of failure to fulfil constitutional obligations. That's what we think of as Mera25. Thirdly, this framework consists of the governmental choice of delaying the necessary measures to strengthen the public health system, with the necessary recruitment and ensuring the necessary logistical infrastructure, as a result of the political choices of its obsessions and purposes. However, the National Health System needs reinforcement and funding, not charity. Fourthly, it consists of an effort by the government to carry out the vaccination plan at no cost. However, the cost of the Mitsotakis government's vaccination fiasco pays for it in human lives. It goes without saying that vaccination does not deny the urgent need to strengthen the ERC. Fifthly, it consists of a truly incredible number of legislation, concerning micro-regulations and patches. This legislative culture constitutes the continuation of the logic of 'expansion and frustration' by other means, namely extension in the form of prolongation of the death of public health and falsification on the part of the Government that there is no problem. Finally, sixth, it consists of the lack of an integrated strategy of exiting from the triple, health, economic and social crisis, to which I referred extensively in my prototype, and of almost criminal management of the pandemic, which leaves its victims behind in both the economic and health sectors. Of course, the inadequacy and inability of the government to manage the threefold crisis leads to the establishment of the police rulership and the consolidation of the curse of Mr Mitsotakis' government on the path of anti-democratic authoritarianism. It is such that the authoritarian categorization of the government, which does not hesitate to suspend Articles 5(4) and 11 of the Constitution, for the third time energizing the Chrysochide law on the pretext of pandemic. Instead of recruiting doctors and teachers, the government chooses the way to ban public mergers by a decision of the head of ELAS dictated by itself. These practices do not refer to a democratic rule of law, but to an authoritarian regime. The government wants to bury the problems under misinformation and authoritarianism. He won't make it like he didn't make it today. As a member of Mera25 I was next to the struggle of the educational community and the student clubs, against the government planning, which hamper education and strengthen authoritarianism, an authoritarianism that is a pretext for the future of the country. Because the Government of New Democracy is aware that once the wave of the pandemic crisis has resolved, the economic catastrophe, the social ruins that will be left behind by the failed government management of the crisis will clearly appear. Mr Mitsotakis' government gives us a foretaste from the future, a future in which the repression and restriction of rights has a leading role. Considers that with the bans of mergers it will dismantle what the Greek people have built for decades. He's making a huge mistake. Society will stand alongside the youth, the university community and the workers. Mera25 will do the same. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have pointed out, we are not disoriented by any small interventions with an individual positive figure. We are clearly seeing the broader context and the conditions that have been created. And so is the citizens. But there is one problem, which cannot be solved with half the solutions and patches, but there is a need for a comprehensive, democratic and popular solution. And this problem is the governance of the country by New Democracy, which endangers the public health and the general interest of the Greek people, as well as the democratic functioning of the country, a government that ultimately conflicts with the Constitution and the people themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mrs. Apajidis. Mrs Athanasios has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u352	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I speak of the bill, I would like to remind all of us that as of 2008 Archbishop Christodoulos, a sacred guardian of Orthodox faith, a fighter tireless about the righteous of the Greeks, a shepherd who dared, approached and brought so many young people to our Church. For the bill now, for Article 2, which refers to the exclusion of the costs of vaccines from the pharmacological expenditure, the Greek Solution says 'no'. Likewise, for Articles 32 and 33 which derogate from the move of qualified doctors to the vaccination centres we say 'no'. To conclude, I would like to stress that the Greek Solution is contrary to the immediate and indirect mandatoryity of the vaccine. He respects free will in respect of ourselves - our body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mrs. Athanasios. And we go to the Communist Party of Greece, to Mr. George Lambroulis. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr President. I will take as much time as you give me for the denigration of ministerial amendments, in particular the two concerning the Ministry of Health. I shall start with the last amendment you have tabled, in about five, I would say. Look, it repeats the same set. I'm saying, to record, it's because it's happening for a multi-purpose time. We have to say it so that it can be recorded so that they do not bathe after what we are voting on the amendments and, in particular, the ministers. Because, for example, you may be forced to vote 'no' in the amendment, while you agree with some articles, if they were separately, you could vote on them, or while you could vote against some articles. So, in Amendment No 732 and in Amendment No 136, that is to say, in the last ministerial amendment, as regards the first article, if it were an independent article, we would vote against it. We consider it unacceptable to recruit workers as it also introduces subsidiarity through this article and through the General Secretariat of the Health Care. And after all, this type of flexible employment relationship has brought the state of the health system here that has been reached: recruitment, redundancies. And, of course, this is not an emergency measure. Is this an emergency? Why? Are those who are to be recruited as subsidiarys - and indeed, do you allow them to be recruited up to 31-7-2021 -, are these workers, who will be recruited for a year, will they not then be required when the vaccination period is over in primary health care, which is completely dispersed? As far as the second article is concerned, we would vote against it if it were incomplete. In fact, what are you doing here? Auxiliary. Continuing the same story and adding something else, workers with a service document. Of course, there are some articles in the amendment we have reservations about. For example, we agree with what is being done with IFET. If it were alone as an article, we would vote for it, i.e. funding, in order to pay back the remdesir. Also, in the same amendment, in Article 7, which concerns remuneration for AEMY, we would, of course, agree not to ask them to return the money they have received for overtime, beyond working hours, anyway, to work. That is exactly how it went in December and I remember it very well and we stressed it at the time or earlier if I am not mistaken. Correct me. That's not the point, when. It therefore passed such a provision on AEMY. A lot of specs fell, that we voted against. Because we were against, for example, the whole, based on our arguments, of the amendment at the time. So today that we will vote'residences', whatever 'yes' we would say, if the articles were separately, they will be registered as'residents'. But also "in" will be recorded as "substances". So the vote in the articles is mistaken, and of course, with the corresponding political arguments that they have from us and from each parliamentary group. I shall now proceed to the second amendment, Mr President, with a general number of 726 and a special number of 130. And here's the same story. Don't repeat it. There are articles that we would vote against, for example - and we stress this - the first article on the merger of the two positions, that is, the one on which the worker's representative is entitled and the one on which the pensioners' representative is entitled. These two positions are taken as one and you are effectively excluded from one of the two categories. After all, what money is managed by the EEAS? Employees and retired persons. But this is where you put a BSE representative. What is the BSE representative doing? What does a representative have to do either by PIS, by the Dental Association or by the Pharmaceutical Association, etc.Huh? If he wants scientific advisers, for example, who need scientific opinions, let him organise a department, serve it with corresponding scientists and accept any scientific answers to questions, his work in need of assistance. We are also negative in Article 3, for example, because we disagree with what it provides for chronic dialysis units. You corrected the number here. It was left 'forty'. I say it, because you had written in the "fifty" bill and corrected by the legislature. There are still forty cases, forty patients for two nephrologists. But the predominant thing for us here is that you give the possibility where there are nephrologists to take up a position of cardiologists, for example, after a three-month course in nephewology. Where did you hear that? Where did you see it? To cover flaws, he says! And after all, what does this show up with, as with all the health situation in the health system? That there is no central design. Make him! Design on the basis of our country's needs, for example, for nephrologists, so as to meet the needs, which are obviously constantly widening, so as not to get far. So also in this amendment, while a number of articles could be voted on and some to vote against, we will go to 'the present', Mr President. We're explaining, and for them to be recorded, and so that some people don't come out against what we're voting on and say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u355	Thank you very much, Mr. Lambroulis. Does Mr. Igoumenides have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u356	Don't I talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u357	I said one. Mr. Katrinis spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u358	Mr. Katrinis is a parliamentary representative. I'm the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u359	I said: either the parliamentary or the rapporteur. Mr. Katrinis spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u360	He's a rapporteur. The rapporteurs are talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u361	Yeah, I'm sorry. And you're liked to me, too. You know that. Here, Mr. Poula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, thank you. It's a tough time, of course. Mr Minister, I address you because we have tabled four amendments as a Change Movement for several times. The one amendment we have tabled relates to heavy and unhealthy. Unfortunately, so far you have not satisfied us with this amendment. We hope that you will do so now that we present it again and encourage workers, not the Change Movement. We're bringing her in for the workers. Inside this, we also have an allowance for the month of February for the workers in our hospitals. It is a request that - I believe - can find a response. Another amendment concerns the setting of an unhealthy work allowance for the staff of the TOMY and the staff of the AEMY-owned health units, for reasons of equality. They must also receive the allowance for unhealthy work. Of course, we have tabled the other amendment on the self-taxation of medical staff from the National Health System. They are amendments which we are tabling and we are putting them back, because we believe that at the moment the people on the front line, the people who really offer, should at some point be rewarded. And that cannot be done by the Change Movement. You can do it, where you're government. We must now go to the second chapter on the amendments that you have brought us. I'm really talking to you, the next time the Minister calls me for information to the Ministry, I'm not going to go again. Whenever I have taken, he has informed me and the next day I come to Parliament and bring me last minute amendments with staff recruitment, with, with, with, and with, etc. It can't be done at a time. I mean, I'm scared now. Last time he brought here the plan for the vaccination plan. Now you're bringing us the hires. Mr. Secretary, mercy! You don't know, that getting into the vaccination phase, we're gonna have to get people? Haven't you counted on this world where it takes, how many do you need anyway? We're going now and we're taking doctors to the Ministry's central office, to the Ministry's Department? Then we will also bring the other amendment, which puts the issue that Mr Lambroulis mentioned with the nephewists. I'm a nephrologist, too, and I know the subject very well. My colleagues don't see it with a good eye. In other words, the nephrologist in a chronic haemodialysis unit cannot be replaced by a pathologist and cardiologist. The specialities have been established because the object of each is different. We cannot confuse everything and say now that the kidney patients will be treated like this. Yeah, when they're having a heart attack, this will be dealt with by the cardiologist. When they're having a pathological problem, will they be treated by the pathologist, but the kidney problem? So, if a patient makes a hypotensive, will the cardiologist go and fix it? There are some other problems that I do not want to go into now, but that is unthinkable. I think this thing should be seen again. From the conversation today, what came out? It came out that there's a vaccine issue. Unfortunately, Europe has a problem. We must jointly give a solution. What's the solution? The patent break? That's one. New lines in all countries? Finally, let's put a programming and we as a country have to be in the core, plan to see how we can handle this pandemic, because the pandemic came to stay, it didn't come to leave. Unfortunately, he's not going to leave yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u363	Thank you too, Mr Poula, and I apologise again. Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u364	First of all, Mr Minister, we tabled two amendments. The first amendment concerns strengthening the protection framework for workers in the sorting of courier undertakings. In essence, the amendment proposes that the couriers, distributors and warehouse workers should join heavy and unhealthy. As you know, we have also proposed for health workers their inclusion in heavy and unhealthy. So far we have not heard the government's position on this amendment. The second amendment we tabled concerns the conditions for the first grant of unemployment to tourist and food professions. He spoke during the process and Mr Thraniotis spoke about it. What are we actually suggesting? For young workers in tourism who, due to the circumstances and the impact of the pandemic on tourism businesses, were unable to collect the eighty trademarks that were the prerequisite, to regulate the situation so that they could join and take the unemployment benefit with lesser marks. These are the two amendments that we have tabled and we would like your opinion. As far as the amendments made by the government are concerned, if you look at them - because I do not imagine that you will be satisfied with the debate that has taken place now - as you have presented them as titles, obviously these are issues which must be discussed. There's no doubt about that. Mr. Petchas is gone. I would like to say, however, that apart from the articles he has proposed, that is to say, the extensions that are really necessary, of course, and they create a number of questions. You really find me unprepared. I could get body, municipality, teachers' associations announcements, parents' associations and guardians talking about delays and problems in the two-year pre-school education and how the building is moving forward. Now, did you remember, on 28 January, that the arrangement would come as a matter of urgency until 31 January? And I am talking about things and issues that I at least remember from before the economy closes in March 2020. It's not a year since you haven't taken any measures. Secondly, the first article of your amendment, before extensions begin, refers to direct awards of projects outside and beyond the existing provisions. I'll come to the two amendments of the Ministry of Health. Shouldn't the Ministry of Health get personal where it needs to, or the health structures where they need to be? Shouldn't we give a guarantee for the workers who have been compensated for their work by AEMY? Not to give extensions for recruitment, etc.Huh? These are issues we need to see. The only thing that is'sitting', in my opinion, Mr Minister, is that you confirm all the criticism we have made of your bill that we are discussing today. You have brought two amendments from the Ministry of Health, which are greater than the same bill to an extent. I am really covered, at least on the issues that have been raised, by colleagues who have spoken before me. I would like now to focus on the issue of nephrologists. As I said, it confirms the criticism that we made in the bill the same procedure that you are now going on. I just want to remind you that we discussed in the bill the motives for anestheticists. We told you, Minister, to have a more comprehensive debate. Only anesthetics are the specialty that we miss? What others are ‘blessed’ specialties? In fact, when you say we use cardiologists or pathologists, there seems to be another "blessed" specialty. Of course, this is progressing without debate and we do not take the issue of the barren regions at all. I will conclude by saying that you need to take the amendments back and, if you want, even urgently, by means of an urgent procedure, not in my opinion in the House, but in an emergency procedure for the services of your Ministries, an integrated draft law that must be prior to consultation. Here, for example, to go cardiologists and cover the chronic dialysis units I don't know who thought about it. Who did you talk to?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u365	Thank you very much. We will close the circle with the rapporteurs with Mrs Silina Skondra from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Mr President. Reaching to the end of the debate on today's bill, what has been found and for which we are convinced is that the bill we have discussed is in the right direction and there is no doubt at all that it solves problems and does not create any problems. In fact, problems which in this pandemic crisis certainly have to be solved for the benefit of our fellow citizens, and that is what this bill does. It was also found by the Qualified Opposition, but also by other wings of the House, that regrettably the 'hornshall' keeps well, because, if anything, everyone seems to be concerned, I did not question it, but on the other hand there was not a serious proposal, some serious planning, not only today but throughout the process as well. Proof that every time both the government and the Ministry of Health and the Prime Minister himself often and repeatedly in public and in here, proposals are made and these proposals adopted, if they are correct, unfortunately nothing has been heard. Finally, I would like to say that something else that proves the hypocrisy of Officer Opposition, as we have been informed by social media today, is that half the SYRIZA parliamentary group was at the rally. Here to be clear and tell us why, on the one hand, they blame and say that we do not take measures or why we open up one or the other or why schools will open up, but on the other hand they themselves invite the world and go personally to such kinds of rallyings that are only risky. So we are voting for the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, my colleague. The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Signature (a) of the Donation Convention between the Greek State, the Social Benefit Foundation called "John S. Latsis (John S. Latsis Public Benefit Foundation)" and the Ν.D. is closed. under the name ‘Athens General Hospital ‘C. (b) the donation contract between the Greek State of 4th Y.P. of 9.12.2020. Macedonia and Thrace, the Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki "Theagenio", Anna Maria Louise Ioannis Latsis and the Hellenic Anticancer Society and other provisions of the Ministry of Health." We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of thirty-five articles, of three amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u368	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u369	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u370	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Structuring (a) of the Donation Convention between the Greek State, the Joint Benefit Foundation under the name "John S. Latsis Foundation (John S.Latsis Public Benefit Foundation)" and D.D. under the name ‘Athens General Hospital ‘C. (b) the donation contract between the Greek State of 4th Y.P. of 9.12.2020. Macedonia and Thrace, the Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki, "Theagenio", Anna Maria Louise Ioannis Latsis and the Hellenic Anticancer Society and other provisions of the Ministry of Health" were accepted by a majority, in the first instance, of articles and all of them, and it is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u371	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u372	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-28-S1-commons.u373	With the consent of the House at 19.52 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 29 January 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
