ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the topical and urgent debate I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 22 March 2021: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 552/11-32021 by MP Achaias, New Democracy, Christina Alexopoulos, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Strengthening financing of the Armed Forces - National Defence Fund - Defence investment and development". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 541/8-32021 of the SYRIZA Deputy Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Let Henry Dunn" for the decongestion of the National Health System (NSS) from COVID-19 events. 3. The 555/11-3-2021 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Government insufficiency or indifference in order to proceed with the compensation procedures in Crete". 4. The Question No 561/12-32021 by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "The working conditions of the working distributors." 5. The question by No 567/12-32021 of the Greek Parliamentary of State Mr.Villiardos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Management of toll revenues of the Egnatia Road, moving out, involvement of the institutions and TEAD". 6. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, entitled "Exclusion of adults from special treatments". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 553/11-32021 by Mr Anastassios Anastasios (Tasu) Hatzi-Based to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "The need to facilitate working parents and adult caregivers and caregivers to balance between professional and family obligations". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 551/11-32021 topical question of SYRIZA's MP Magnesia - Progressive Alliance Mr. Catherine Papanatziou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Emergent need for the repair work and energy upgrading of the health center's buildings". 3. The Question No 557/12-32021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "When will you finally correct the institutional scandal of Law 4670/2020 with which you have introduced new inequalities into the insurance system?" 4. The Question No 563-12-32021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The redundancies of tourist bus drivers in Crete". 5. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of National Defence, on "Directly release of forest land of the camps of Heidari and concession of 66 acres and of Block 15 to the municipality". 6. The Question No 554/11-32021 by MP B1' North Athens, New Democracy Mr. George Koumoutsakos, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The protection structures of women and advisory centres". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by SYRIZA's MP Achaias - Progressive Alliance Mr. Athanasias (Syria) Readstopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Shrinking of incidents in supermarkets of Patras”. 8. The question raised by Mr Andreas Poulas, Member of the Commission. — (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Pulas, on his excellent report. 9. The Question No 564/12-32021 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnaka, to the Minister for Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "To extend the "FILOXENIA" programme and cancel the evictions of refugees". 10. The Question No 565/12-32021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The problems in Crete, in the process of vaccination for the coronary". 11. The question by No 566/12-32021 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Giannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, entitled "The professional schools of the Labour Force Agency (OAED)". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 3580/26-1-2021, by MP, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Nearly a year after the operation of distance learning, the Ministry of Education fails to provide access for all students to distance learning and has not prepared a study on the results of learning". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "At the third wave of the pandemic, thousands of workers, unemployed and weak remain without support measures." Ladies and gentlemen, the topical questions which will be answered by the same Minister or Minister of State will be discussed after each other. In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs us that the figures will be discussed today. 560/12-3-2021, 543/8-3-2021, 3729/1-2-2021, 547/10-3-2021, 542/8-3-2021, 556/11-3-2021, 545/9-3-2021, 549/11-3-2021, 569/12-3-2021 and 3657/28-1-2021. After that, we enter the debate of the QUESTIONS We will begin with the first with the number 542/8-32021 topical question of the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The need to draw up a comprehensive plan for restoring the damage caused by earthquakes in Thessaly".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, Mr. President, Minister. Thank you. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kokalis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As you know, the earthquake that took place on 3 March left severe wounds in several areas of the Larissa Prefecture, in the Municipality of Tirnavos, Elassona, Larissanes, and also Killere. All these citizens need to be practicable in the state and the state next to them. You yourself visited the affected areas, such as Damasi, and announced exceptional financial assistance of EUR 300,000 in three municipalities. I would first like to note that the municipality of Larissaio is not present. Secondly, this EUR 300,000, Minister, as you can see, has already been exhausted. In other words, it would cover - to use past time - the first living needs, it would cover part or total restoration of the building, it would cover other costs of the affected. With this question, I would like to know about the overall government planning, whether you are going to reinvigorate the municipalities and citizens. Secondly, do you intend to assist the municipalities - because they are gaining a great deal of weight, Mr Minister, and their finances are not well - in terms of feeding, in terms of their credit obligations, on immediate road rehabilitation projects? Many streets in Elassona, Tirnavo, but also in other areas, have been destroyed. Therefore, they are waiting today for you and with me the citizens of Larisa who have been affected, to tell us whether you intend to announce concrete financial aid to the people affected and to the municipalities. Let me mention something paradoxical, Minister. While we hear and know all Greece that Elassona is earthquake-stricken and the rift is only 10 km from the city of Elassona, it was not included in the earthquake-stricken areas. The Elassona Municipal Community, the city of Elassona where checks are currently being carried out in all buildings and where some schools have already damaged, is not considered an earthquake area. They have been judged - well - by other eighteen, twenty and twenty-five kilometres away from the rift and not the city of Elassona. There is such a joint ministerial decision, which I am presenting, which proves it. I think it might be a matter of carelessness. See this again. This is a joint ministerial decision by the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Minister of Development and the Minister of Transport. The Municipality of Elassona, Elassona Municipality is not considered an earthquake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Red. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Stylianos Petsas. Mr. Petsa, you have three minutes to answer Mr. Red.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Beumer, who has given me the opportunity to say once again a great thank you to all those who have contributed since the first time to the regions affected by the earthquake of 3 and 4 March. These include, in addition to the people of civil protection, fire-fighting, army, police, all the authorities in the region and municipalities, of course the volunteers who have been on the spot to provide their help. Thank them once again. As far as the actions we have done, Mr Kokkalis, are concerned, in particular, on economic issues. I will return to them, but first of all, let me say that the first concern was to find the immediate solution to the problem of housing, which was the case with the hotels of the first day. From about 200 people, who were in the beginning, are three hundred and fifty hotels in nearby areas, where they remain from the second day. There were the first needs covered with tents, with the assistance of the army. There were gradually the infrastructure needed to keep people who cannot return home in human conditions. Here at first we had the trailer procedure. At the moment we have sixty-six caravans located in the area and are expected another three days in the next few days. We'll have sixty-nine trailers in total. They're also the housekeepers. When the necessary infrastructure projects were made, the mayors have been informed at the first moment of what they have to do, namely to ensure that electricity, water, is provided, so that there is proper sewerage. So we already have sixty - three settlers located and are expected to be sixty - one additional. I have an indicative breakdown in the various municipalities and communities of the three main municipalities, Elassonas, Tyrnavos and Farcadonas, where the placement has taken place. Apart from that, we have, as you said, moved on to the direct financing of EUR 900,000 in the three affected municipalities for the first social protection expenditure that the Ministry of Interior gives, as you said, of about 600 euros corresponding to each family. In a second phase, with the submission of the relevant technical notes, we will proceed with the rest of the money, which reaches up to EUR 6 000 for restoring the construction of the affected people. We expect the mayors to submit technical notes in the next few days. We've explained them all since the first day. Every day, my colleagues at the Ministry, as well as the competent department of the Ministry of Interior, communicates with the mayors to direct them to any problems they have for recording and correcting in technical bulletins. You referred to the municipality of Larissa. I have to tell you that from the very beginning we have been in contact with the Mayor of Larissa, Mr Kalogannis, and the request has been made. It is 200,000 euros and we will proceed immediately to their administration and the Larissa Municipality. There is also a question with the Municipality of Palama Carditsa, which, as I understand it, is there some individual issues that we will deal with in the next few days. One key issue you have also raised is daily feeding. According to the information I have from all the services and from the District Commissioner, Mr. Agathos, there is no question of feeding. It's morning, noon, night. Also, in the first days, when I visited the area, whatever problem existed in some communities of the municipality of Farcadona, it was dealt with with with the support of the army. So, yes, a lot of action has been taken. Others will be made in the next period either by the payment of money or by the full compensation for the packages. With regard to the infrastructure projects you raise in your question, there are some issues that are very quickly restored by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the region. There are some issues that need longer to be done, such as the bridge in Vlachoyanni, which we have undertaken together with the region to incorporate into the funds of the Ministry of Interior and to restore them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Mr. Red, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u6	Minister, we welcome the assistance to the Municipality of Larissai, who really needs it, because the city of Larissa was also affected by the earthquake. I would like to mention, although it is not your responsibility, that there are many complaints. In fact, yesterday, we had some incidents between auditors and residents. I do not doubt that proper controls are carried out by the region, but there are many complaints that houses which are clearly damaged are not considered inappropriate. Here the state must be responsible and objectively informed of the affected citizens, because it is the most bad thing for someone to feel insecurity about sleeping at home. It is very important and I appeal to these people to explain scientifically why they must and why they must not, and what the procedure is to be followed. I should also like to inform you, Minister, that in Elassona, even though a hundred and twenty containers had been announced, they have only reached twenty. You also said that you would announce support for packages up to 6,000 euros. I think they want more support with projects and the region of Thessaly and the municipalities. They want concrete support with road construction and direct damage recovery projects. In addition, I will pass on a request from the mayors for the benefit of their debt obligations, if possible. I am always referring to the affected municipalities and transferring their request for a favourable treatment of their borrowing obligations towards the Deposit and Loan Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Red. Mr. Petsa, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the issue of houses and controls is concerned, we all know from our previous experience that the relevant workshops of the Ministry of Infrastructure characterize a house as inappropriate to the various markings. In secondary control, however, when the post-Semitism sequence has stopped and one can better assess the damages, many of those that have been classified as inappropriate to the first check are considered appropriate in the second one. I understand that we need better communication on these issues between workshops and residents. But there are too many houses, there are five thousand seventy - nine houses that have been checked. So he needs a little patience. Home, home, household, household to make this right treatment. As far as the issues of municipal support are concerned, we have said and I am in constant contact with the mayors that whatever is necessary, the state will be side by side to help. The first money was what we said, but the next one will follow the technical bulletins. In addition, aid will be granted until the end of March, i.e. next week, to all municipalities for the reduction of revenues and the increased costs incurred by the pandemic. This will therefore be an extraordinary "injection" of funding directly to the municipalities, including, of course, the municipalities affected by the earthquakes. As to the other issues that are generally relevant to how we can deal with natural disasters and ease wounds they cause, I have to tell you that in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Development we have a mechanism established by the 'January' in continuous operation and visit our partners affected, to be more precise in our assessments. You know, so far only since the first quarter of this year will the Ministry of Interior allocate more than EUR 17 million to areas affected by either floods or earthquakes. There is a lot of money, so we intend to have a more institutionalised mechanism, such as this 'January'. That is why in a bill by the Ministry of Finance, which has already been prepared and presented to the Ministerial Council, we will be able to establish these in order to be much quicker in dealing with natural disasters and with more precise compensation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Have a good day to both of you. We move on to the fifth with number 560/12-3-2021 a topical question for the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens Department of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Development and Investment, on the subject: "The practices of the cooperatives in the midst of pandemic are unacceptable". Mrs. Giannakopoulou, good morning, you have two minutes at your disposal. I will also ask the Minister and you, because you are very dynamic, to keep your time and cool.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we have been facing over a year with the pandemic of COVID -19 and it is obvious that, beyond the area of health that is being tested, the market, the economy and society as a whole are also being tested. Both the economic situation and the psychology of the Greek citizens have exceeded their limits, which is unfortunately very reasonable in all these circumstances. Thousands of our fellow citizens, therefore, within this framework, have seen a very significant reduction in their incomes and in many cases a total destruction of their incomes. How many businesses and jobs can be maintained after all this Armageddon, which we experience and how many people can get back into normality. It is obvious that thousands of companies will close down, so thousands of jobs will be lost and research from all the chambers also proves that. So, within this framework, at the same time as all this is happening, this is amazing, Minister. We read it through articles, we see it through announcements from consumer associations and borrowers, but I must confess to you that too many individual cases of citizens from the western sector of Athens have come to me personally and I have reported these facts to you. They therefore accept, in the midst of a pandemic, suffocating pressures, suffocating charges from collector companies, bank funds and legal offices. Receipts of this unacceptable and irreversible attitude towards thousands of households, which are narrow, are even vulnerable social groups, long-term unemployed, retired, disabled. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude very soon, Mr President. You understand that all this insults the Greek citizens at this very difficult time, it insults the fundamental right to free development of a person's personality and not to insult it, as guaranteed by Article 5 of the Constitution, but also by Articles 57 et seq. of the Civil Code. I now come to the question, Mr President. There have been complaints in the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection in your Ministry and have led to a specific fine. In particular, in 2019 there were a hundred and eighty-five complaints and forty-nine administrative sanctions were imposed, while in 2020, in the middle of a pandemic, there were two hundred seventy-four complaints and nineteen penalties were imposed. With simple mathematics, that is, Minister, I wonder how it is explained that in 2019 there were more penalties with fewer complaints, while in 2020 there were more complaints with fewer fines. Minister, is this an accident? Is it inertial to your Ministry's control mechanisms? Or is this a favourable treatment to these companies? Questions are relentless. I, too, must confess to you, Minister, and tell you the truth, I do not believe too much in coincidence. In any case, the question is whether you intend to set up a framework for the operation of the cooperative companies on the basis of the new economic and social data due to the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u11	The question will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis. Mr. Georgiadis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Fellow, your question also shows social sensitivity, but it is useful to clarify some things about what is going on and what is not the case today, mainly because I keep reading on various publications, on websites, on comments on the Internet that "we have been told that the collector companies will not call." Because companies are calling, and there are cases where they are taking too many phones and are making nuisance, as you said, and I will say it then. So, first of all, we have to understand what's going on. In fact, when the pandemic began last March there was a very strong intervention by the Government and my own personal, but also by Mr Staikoras. We held a meeting with the Association of Greek Banks and all the management companies of the various debts, and a joint press release was issued, and ours and theirs, for a moratorium that was then submitted to the process of collecting debts. Then, if you remember, I had come out and said that they could not call and I had also made a public appeal, of course, that those who can pay should not stop paying, because it would be disastrous for the Greek economy to stop the mass set-aside of payments. I want to make it clear here that another thing about how to make it easier for people to pay the debts they had before the pandemic, in the midst of the pandemic and the new economic data it has created and it is a different thing to say to the world 'do not pay your debts'. The debts are to be paid. This is the basic principle of the economic system in which we live. If there is a generalised feeling that debts must not be paid, then there will be a general bankruptcy of everything and the destruction of the economy and job losses and all the other things you have said. The original idea for this moratorium was that it would last three months, because our idea at that time, if you remember, was that when the pandemic came into the summer of 2020, it would end up and slowly - we could return to our old lives. Sadly, however, the pandemic did not retreat. This moratorium has therefore also continued with the authorisation of European banking services and authorities by 31 December 2020. On 31 December 2020, in a pan-European manner, a decision by the European supervisory banking authorities prohibited the moratorium. There is no moratorium anymore in any European Union state and no government can intervene to create it. What's there? There is a recommendation from the European banking authorities to the banks, providers and managers of the loans to try to find with their customers, with debtors the best possible payment solutions, so that people who are incapable because of the coronary can pay what they can, but also banks and other companies that are moving around the collection of debts, do not get destroyed, creating insurmountable losses in the economies of the Member States. In my dentistry, I'm gonna explain how this works. So, I will say the following, so that people know what is happening today: today the collecting companies are legally calling. What can we do as the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection? Check whether they comply with the institutional framework already in force by the 2009 Act, that is, if they call once a day, if they only call working hours and days and not the weekend, if they do not call the workplace, if they do not call relatives and so on. Because there are laws that say, yes, you can call to provoke the debt payment, but this has to be done - and that is our message to collecting companies now - with dignity. Because if there is no respect for human dignity, then the law comes and imposes very strict penalties. We in the General Secretariat of the Consumers' Secretariat have already imposed very strict penalties on several collecting companies in recent months. I want to say something one more time, so people know about it. It is another thing to say that they can call to get a debt payment and another thing to get ten, twenty, thirty times a day to get to the workplace, get to relatives. All of this is strictly forbidden and the complaints in question must be made to immediately address the relevant infringements of the law. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Minister. Ms. Giannakopoulou, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u14	So, Minister, what you are telling us is that, with a European boulder, with a European note, European citizens and Greek citizens are now absolutely at the mercy of the banks, the tax collectors' funds, even if we are in such an unprecedented, unthinkable economic situation. That's what you're telling us. Are you telling us that nothing can be done and that we simply need to monitor this analge, this jungle, this possibility to call in such conditions and often in an insulting way, often without control, often in the workplace, often in completely inappropriate conditions, people who have lost their jobs, who have zero incomes, who are so pressed in every way, but, yes, banks, funds, collecting companies will continue to operate in the same way as if nothing were happening? In other words, the Greek society is sinking, but the banks are doing their job? Where can they find them, Minister, the Greek citizens, who cannot pay their loans, cannot pay PPC, and, in addition, every three and five, have this suffocating and psychological pressure through the phones of the tax collector companies? So what are you doing? The role of the state where it is, Minister? Against your European counterparts, should we not take an initiative? Only the 'good children' of Europe should we be? I urge you to take a European initiative, if you say that this is a European issue, the European Central Bank or I do not know which others, in order to be sensitive to this issue. There needs to be a public concern at the present time in order to put in a more serious regulatory framework and to see that this regulatory framework is being respected. And, yes, until we can get rid of the coronary, continue this moratorium. Yes, the debts are to pay for them, Mr. Georgiadis, but in these circumstances your accreditation sounds more cynical than ever. In these circumstances, then, you must take care to ensure that people who are in an objective weakness over their stress about how to pay and regulate their debts to the state, to banks, to the bodies everywhere, do not have the collector companies to drive them crazy in the morning, at noon, at night on the phones to pay back in situations of objective, global economic weakness.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u15	The Minister has the floor for three minutes to say what he did not say in his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u16	First of all, Madam President, my phrase on debt was in normal economic conditions. I said at the same time - you may not have noticed - that this is the general principle. However - I told you - in the pandemic we had a moratorium. And the moratorium lasted from March to December. Also, to blame the government for having shown no sensitivity to people who have incompetent debts, it is unfair to yourself because you are a responsible politician. Let us remember what measures the government has taken so far, precisely because there are objectively very difficult circumstances. The Ministry of Development and Investment paid for five months all the debts of the information business loans and also did the same for the first quarter of 2021. The Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Development, paid - and they pay - the 'GEYRA' programme for several months for payments of housing interest and debt-sharing of hundreds of thousands of household loans, precisely because we recognise that they cannot pay them. The Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Development, announced the program "GEFYRA II" to pay for the next nine months interest-rate and information and uninformed business loans of hundreds of thousands of businesses. All this, Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou, is it not the practical proof of state care to help people under the exceptional economic conditions that they can pay their debts? And while we're doing all this and we've allocated sums that none of you could imagine we'd find them in the pandemic, you're telling us we're cynical and no matter what? You are - I repeat - a responsible politician, you cannot wear a speech worthy of another party in the Chamber. It is obvious that we are very sensitive. It is obvious that we have made billions available to help people pay their debts. And all these billions have been made available and they are subsidies, it is a gift, it is not a debt to us, precisely because we understand these particular circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u17	You answer another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u18	What I told you is that all this is debt collection. All this is the recognition of the state that we need to help people pay their debts. These are all the instruments of the state that we practically recognise the exceptional economic circumstances. The question you ask is another. These exceptional economic circumstances, should they lead to a general attitude of payments? I answer you, no. Because the generalised payment stop, Mrs. Nadia Giannakopoulou, would lead to a collapse of our financial system, and then hundreds of thousands of people would stay without work. On the contrary - I have heard you say in your protology that you are anxious that people should not lose their jobs, just as we have the same anxiety - you should recognise that the measures taken so far by the Greek Government, as they are recognised by the institutions, markets, the foreign press, were crucial and effective. Greece has had the lowest rise in unemployment throughout the European Union. We managed to have a fall in unemployment for months to come at the end of 2020, in the midst of this pandemic and in the middle of the quarantine. So, obviously, we are interested in people's jobs and obviously the measures we have taken are working and have taken a place. I'm going to the collector's now. Again, what are the main violations that we have already imposed fines for so that people know what their obligation is. To say a pleasant news about the economy. When the moratorium ended, i.e. after 31 December 2020, all collectors phoned all the debtors to see who can pay, etc. One in two goes on and he pays his dose perfectly normally. So, thankfully, the Greek citizens, with much greater wisdom and soundness than I have previously heard, continue to pay, since they can, because they realize that our common interest is not to collapse our economy, which would collapse otherwise. Secondly, what are management companies and banks obliged to do now? What is the recommendation from us and from the European banking authorities? When they call you and say "I don't have to pay", in this case the banks and the administrator is obliged to offer you alternative payment options with a reduced dose, even under 50%, even under 60%, even under 70% of the dose. If it does not offer you - I say it to the people - reduced payment, then the collector and the promoter are illegal and you have to make a complaint with the General Secretariat of Consumers. They are therefore obliged to offer the debtors, when they invoke a weakness of payment, much more favourable payment programmes for the next two to three years, so that we can restore the functioning of the economy and then reinstate the rate of payment to the normal rate that was before the pandemic. So, we haven't left the world unprotected, like you said. On the contrary, I repeat, not for you to hear it, but for the people who see this House or who will see it later. First, companies cannot take you as many times as they want uncontrollable. That's illegal. If it happens to you, you can make a complaint in 1520 to the General Secretariat of Consumers and we will immediately fine. Secondly, they cannot bother you on a telephone number. This is prohibited by law and a fine is imposed. Third, they can't bother you unless it's been ten days since the time the debt was due. We have set a fine for derogating from the sole purpose of the company's intervention, derogation from the orders of the lender, for example, not to offer an alternative form of payment with a lower dose. They have to offer people who are invoked - I say again - inability to pay, because of pandemic, a lower dose. They can't bother you about late debts you've already put in a settlement. That's forbidden. So, not only have we not left the debtor unprotected, but the debtor has many rights that we have guaranteed to him. We're on top and we're watching and we're constantly fined when complaints are made, but neither will we get to the other end and say "Children, don't pay. It is an opportunity for the pandemic not to pay the debts." Because if that happens, then what will happen will be to collapse the financial system and then thousands of jobs will be lost, the Greek economy will be destroyed and again where we were before the first memorandum. No one wants that. We must respect the balance. The government keeps the balance and says: Those who can pay, it is good to pay your debts. This is good for you too, because you pay them off without charging interest, good for the national economy, because it gives them regularity. Those who can't, we've guaranteed you a lot of rights to push the collectors, to have more favourable payment ways, and we've made you a series of tools, if you want, continue to have an economic activity so that you can pay your debts in the next few months, until this pandemic is passed and we're in economic normality. In a good and reasonable way, Mrs Giannakopoulou, everything will go well, as long as populism does not prevail once again in Greece, because populism is the greatest risk to democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Georgiades. Have a good day to both of you. We move on to the next question with number 3729/1-2-2021 on the cycle of petitions - Questions by the Member of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambos (Charis) Mamoulakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Who is the programming of the "EXOCONOMO" programme to support tourism? Mr. Mamulaki, good morning. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, the financial consequences of the arrangements in the context of limiting the expansion of COVID dispersion in our country have also had consequences for the tourist product. From the Institute of Tourism Research and Forecasting, the figures of which were published on January 18, 2021, a month and a half ago, only 60% of the hotels operated in 2020 and the average completeness moved to 23% for the three-month peak, July, August and September. Also, the same investigation shows that the turnover in the industry decreased by 78% compared to 2019, while the decline in liquidity, an important element, taken into account and unsurpassed debt to hotels, reached 84%, 83.3% in fact. As expected, the injury measure from the shrinking of the tourist movement left a serious footprint on both the investment plan and the investment activity of the industry. Furthermore, a survey of ‘ERNT & YOUNG’ presents data that, throughout Europe, the investments in the tourism sector contracted in 2020 close to 56%. As was natural, the financial tools used by your Government in the previous period for 2020- "Returnable Prepayment 1,2,3,4", TPIX I and II, "Support I and II", although they had a clear sign of the very large companies that were bankable and you know it, in any case - they tried to help the already winter businesses, especially large, not the investment re-activation of the industry, which is a key point. In this unprecedented crisis, then, that tourism itself has experienced, a remarkable acceptance was presented by the majority of the collective bodies representing the private sector and scientific bodies. The model of tourism development in our country must be at all costs and soon change, with a change of philosophy that is necessary. After the pandemic, the crucial and politically at issue, Mr. Minister, is that Greek tourism should be able to focus on three main factors: environmental protection, sustainable tourist destinations of smaller concentrations after the COVID era and the shrinking of the environmental footprint of the industry in general. Such a transition, however, requires resources and, above all, political will and proper rational planning. Since September 2020 government actors have been talking about the ongoing design of the Ministry of Tourism, as well as of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, to launch a EUR 600 million programme aimed at saving energy in the tourism sector. So, on the basis of all the above, I would like to ask you this, Mr Minister: firstly, when is the 'exotic' programme for tourism expected to be called? Secondly, according to the design of the Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Tourism, what size will this programme have? What is the financial void, the funding gap, identified by the ministries' services and what part of the country's hotel potential is expected to cover? Thirdly, what will be the eligible costs of the new programme? And, fourthly, who will be the beneficiaries - very critical of this - of the 'XOVO' programme in tourism, and how do you intend to ensure access to the criteria for the eligibility of the new programme often overcompensated small and medium-sized tourists? I particularly welcome the latter, Mr President, because we know the difficulties and difficulties of small and medium-sized enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises in accessing financial instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr Mamulaki. The Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr. Konstantinos Skrekas. Mr. Screka, good morning. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u22	Good morning, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr President, for the question you have tabled, because it gives an opportunity to discuss a very important sector in our country, tourism, which contributes a great deal to the national economy, but also to the Greek society. Even from Trikala, which I am elected, thousands of people in the summer are transferred to tourist areas where they work, work to provide tourism services, focus and thus live their families decently. Of course, we know very well that the participation of the tourism sector in national GDP is too great. It's over 20%. It is the first employer to tourism in Greece and, of course, it has been very badly affected because of the pandemic for good reasons. Of course, this has caused the dramatic decline of visitors, tourists, and this has resulted in adverse economic effects on the industry and on tourist businesses, but also on the food business. From there on, however, the government has taken steps to support them all in the short term until we slowly reintroduce to normality. Of course, all the things that are happening and the attempt to keep the viral load low in the country so that we get out in the spring with as few cases as possible and as little viral as possible will help relaunch tourism. However, we go to the very important question you ask about where tourism is going, where tourism should go, how we should plan it, and what investments should be made. We have climate change. Climate change means global warming, it means increasing global temperatures, what we see, namely weather phenomena, which destroy agricultural crops, which have an impact on average temperature rises. In Greece we are waiting for the next few decades, according to scientific research, and an increase in temperature and a rise in heat days in the country, and of course a fall in rainfall. All of this also affects tourism. Because, on the one hand, we may have a longer period of warm days a year and that would say that one might increase and will probably increase in the next few decades in the good days in the country, so it will increase the summer tourist season. But, on the other hand, this means that, since more tourists come to Greece, we need to have more sources in terms of water because we need to use more water, we need more energy to support them, because we need to cool down the rooms where they live, since the increased temperature means that rooms and spaces should be air-conditioned. It also means greater consumption of sources, transport, larger ports. All this exhausts sources, such as the water I mentioned, produces waste, produces waste. All this, then, needs to be planned in a manner that does not come to a time and we are unprepared if we want to have - as you have quite rightly said - a sustainable tourism product, if we want to have sustainable tourism in the country. So what do we have to do? Firstly, you know that Greece supports Europe's increased environmental ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 and by 2050 Europe to be the first climate-neutral continent. What do we have to do about it? We need to upgrade our building stock. The buildings consume in Greece around 40% of the energy used. You can understand, then, that if we upgrade them energy, we will need to spend less energy to air them in the summer or heat them in winter, which means reduced energy consumption, so reduced carbon dioxide emissions. We need to change the source, where the energy comes from, which we are using precisely for heating, cooling or other services. We are all planning on making use of money from both the NSRF, from the European funds, but also from the Recovery Fund. In particular, for tourism, it has already been announced and planned by June to submit a programme, which concerns the energy upgrading of very small, small and medium-sized hotel and accommodation units in the country. In this way and we will reduce their environmental footprint, but we will also help them to consume less energy, which means that they will have less costs. We therefore achieve two things with one action: lowering costs and reducing the environmental footprint. And ultimately, we provide a tourist product clearly upgraded, once it protects the environment, so we add value and upgrade Greek tourism. Our aim is to promote tourism with a neutral climatic footprint, a green tourism, which is what is needed and which will give value, that is, we will be able to provide value-added services, greater, since they have this extra advantage, that is, they will be environmentally friendly. The rest of the answers I have to say, Mr President, in my denunciation because they are enough to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u23	Sure, why not? Thank you very much. Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is not clear from what you have told us, nor the range of eligible expenditure to be included in the programme, but, above all, the evaluation criteria. And in that I would like a clear answer from you in your dentistry, because, as you can see, it is of paramount importance for the whole reasoning of the question. You have mentioned the issue of the climate crisis or criminal change, as we say many times too much, to understand the challenge we are facing. Clearly I, too, come from Crete, from an area that has been very stunned by the climate crisis, and we also see the phenomenon of being present and taking place in the last few years. And it is certainly the hotel units that are different categories on the island - it is also the flagship of Greek tourism, after all - that present a number of pathogens at the level of energy-intensive buildings, thermo-bridges, old shells. And all this doubtless suggests that the energy needs of these units should be very increased, and that the viability of the companies should be questioned as a result of this handicap which is constantly being presented, the need for energy aid. So here's a key issue, too, beyond the first question I asked you, is this: What is the direction? Are we going to a logic to upgrade the same shell of a hotel complex? Will we go to a sense of aid with renewable energy systems and units? We're gonna put the electromotion on the part of the tourist product? These are key issues in the arm - if you like - the construction or energy. But what I think is very important is this: what will be the process and how will this effort proceed to strengthen tourism through this programme? And what do I mean? You know very well that in the past we went to reasonable with energy saving programs, we went to reasonable 'first come, first served', 'whoever saw the Lord'. Will you follow this tactic, and on the question of the proposal 'EXXICOMOVO' in June, which you mentioned would probably come out of the invitation? It is very important to us and above all, because that is where we understand the political thought, the political will and methodology you are following. There is a reasonable financial gap, a 'funding gap', we all know it, of the needs associated with the needs of tourism and businessmen in tourism around it. What is it? Do you know each other? Because on the basis of this assumption, any action of yours will follow. It's of key importance. So, in conclusion, Mr President, without spending more time, I sum up three basic questions: physiology, physiology and architecture of your interventions? Secondly, what is the methodology? Will you go to the logic of previous invitations? And of course, the most important - and I think - for us is the eligibility and the eligibility criteria with which you are going to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, and you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u26	First of all, let me say that for the 'first come, first served' you said, which you, too, applied in your own term, we made use of it for one reason, because we wanted too quickly to put money on the market, to move on, and this really is the fastest way. You'll ask me if this is the fairest way or the most focused way to say it that way. It's fair. Is this the most focused way to achieve maximum energy savings and maximum energy upgrade with the money we have? I will tell you that no, but surely those who entered this programme and those who have been chosen to upgrade their buildings will all need an energy upgrade because that is what the programme provides. From there on, I will speak specifically in answer to your questions. We have planned EUR 100 million from the ESRB and we have incorporated EUR 500 million - half a billion - into the Recovery Fund for Energy Upgrade and Energy Use in Enterprises, small, very small and medium-sized enterprises. So, if we consider that it is about EUR 600 million public expenditure, you understand that by leverage we expect more than EUR 1 billion in the next two, three years to be used precisely for the energy upgrading of very small and medium-sized units. What costs are eligible? First, energy upgrade of building infrastructure, that is, shell - is it? - in order to improve heat transmittance, heating and cooling systems, use of renewable energy sources to meet energy needs. We will support and finance even energy storage systems, very importantly. I told you that our goal is to make climate-neutral accommodation and hotel facilities. This will greatly increase the added value, they will be able to offer services that will not affect the climate and the environment, and in this way we will be able to ask for greater added value provided, so in the end, greater income for both hotel owners and local communities and for the national economy. Also eligible costs for the installation of smart energy management, water saving and waste management systems. I told you that more tourists, more visitors means more sources, more water - we should water them - while producing more waste which, therefore, we should manage in an absolutely environmental way. We are all promoting these and will be eligible expenditure through the programme. I repeat that by June we will announce the use of smart electric vehicles and other supportive actions, such as environmental studies or inspections, which should be carried out to enable people to submit their contributions to be financed. As far as who will be beneficiaries are concerned, I told you that we want to extend the financial basis and use this money in the tourism sector, which means that we very much want them to be eligible for this programme. So we will direct money to small, very small and medium-sized enterprises so that this money can actually get a place and in this way help not only themselves, not only the tourist businesses themselves, but also all the ancillary ones that will support and carry out these constructions. These are works to which a mechanic works, and in this way the building works. Therefore, this programme will have multiple benefits for local communities. As far as eligibility is concerned, of course, eligibility will also have the economic criteria that you know, but also all the criteria for being able to finance from European money. Therefore, undertakings should not be bankrupt or wound up or under compulsory management, etc. There will also be natural criteria for prioritisation in terms of energy upgrading. There are areas where we have introduced the term 'day', i.e. how many days of the year are very cold or very hot and where, therefore, we spend a lot of energy to air or heat the buildings respectively. This will be a criterion which will also have an important place in this programme so that we can move forward in priority. I repeat, we are not talking about a choice of 'whoever has been the first to have the support', but there will be certain evaluation criteria that we will end up in cooperation with the Technical Chamber of Greece, but also after a discussion with you, because this will come into consultation so that we have absolutely objective, fair and proper criteria to get the money. So there's gonna be a list of priorities and perceptives, and every time we're looking for and finding sources of funding, we'll be able to incorporate the participants into this programme and be able to finance them. That way, everyone will know where their turn is and when they are going to be able to make use of European resources to upgrade their business and accommodation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Minister. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order shall submit its reports to the draft laws of the Ministry of Digital Governance: 1) ‘Furtherance of the Convention establishing the European Communications Office (ECO) [Hagh, 23 June 1993], as amended in Copenhagen on 9 April 2002 and Copenhagen on 23 November 2011’ and 2) ‘Furtherance of the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, on the European Browsing Site Programmes’ And now we are moving on to the next, in the first under number 547/10-3-2021, a topical question by MP B1's North Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance of Euklidis Tsakalotou to the Minister of State, on the subject: "Different personal data of citizens from active MPs". Mr. Chaakalot, good morning, you have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u28	Good morning, Mr. President, good morning, Mr. Gerapetti. I think that the facts and my questions are specific and that is why I would like specific answers. We all saw the scenes of violence in New Smyrna, we all saw the beating, we all saw the effort made on Sunday by your own people to have a communication reaction. Also, the next day we saw Mr. Kyranakis on television - I have here his statement with the name of the man who was "lighting" the wood - saying his name, his political ideas and the mobilisations he had taken part in the past. We are very concerned about that. And I ask, in particular, the following: to whom is this information known, that is, the name, the ideas, the inclusion, the activity? Are there any files on this? A second question is: How did it come to the hands of Mr Kyranakis who, on Mrs Jima's show, told us that she did not know him? He didn't know the man, but he said all of what I told you! Thirdly, please tell us whether Mr Cyranakis has been illegal. I have here for your availability and the law of the Greek state for personal data and the European Union regarding what it considers to be the term 'personal data'. I think that all of this falls under exactly what Cyranakis said. So we ask you very specific questions. We may disagree about too much, such as police violence and who directs it, but here we have specific things. How did Cyranakis know? Who gave it to him? Does he have criminal responsibilities for what he did?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto. The Minister of State will answer Mr. Georgios Gerapetritis. Here, Mr. Gerapitris, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am here to answer Mr Tsakalotou's question, from respect for him above all, because it is a matter that does not fall within my competence and is outside the limits of parliamentary control. It is not my responsibility, because you realise that both the part relating to civil protection is the responsibility of the relevant Minister, who is here, and will answer the questions about the issues you have raised, and the subject matter of police violence. As far as the issue of keeping personal data is concerned, it is a matter primarily concerning justice and, in particular, the independent authorities who, by the Constitution, have the power to monitor matters relating to personal data and evade all my competence. If I may, however, Professor, it is also outside the scope of parliamentary control. Of course I cannot reply on behalf of a Member, and I cannot answer it on behalf of a party. In your question you say that the Member has done and the party has moved. Neither can the other be the subject of parliamentary scrutiny and, as you can imagine, in answering your last question, I cannot give criminal reproach to any Member, not because he forbids this Article 60 of the Constitution, but above all because I am not responsible for that reason. The Court of Justice and the competent constitutional authority, not any Member of the European Parliament, do the blame for a rule of law. However, you will allow me to reply, since I am here before you, on this matter. So what happened in history? We had the same night that the fact that an information about the public sphere took place. What was that? Movement of the beating video that was indeed a shocking scene and already took over justice and administration. This move in itself makes it known in the public sphere. And I answer your question about who he knew. Everyone knew, Professor, because once there are thousands of distributions in public speech, in the public sphere, anyone can know about it. So, in this version, we cannot all say that we are in an anonymity regime. Another issue is that we are dating today and we say that anyone who is accused of another issue of having a facial trafficking without any cover at all. Release the face itself. Apparently, anyone could know that. However, let us look again at the question of the overall movement of data in the public interest, because here, Professor, there is also a question of public interest. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] It was said that there were characteristics of the man mentioned in the public speech. But on an issue where there is public interest, there will obviously be a public debate. It has already been said on behalf of your party that it was beating family leaders. There must be no police force over-exceeding for anyone. On the other hand, when there is a public interest and information moves about citizens who came along, there is obviously a right to information to the public. In order to close this case, no dossier is kept, no political thought exists, no criterion for the exercise of government policy and public administration. And to close, since I am referring to the institutions - and I am sorry for overcoming time - to say what we have done to protect personal data. By the fourth law that came in August 2019, Law 4624/2019 incorporated Directive 680/2016 and part of Regulation 679/2016. This story is interesting, Professor. Why? Because the directive and the regulation are back in 2016 and the deadline for the transposition of the Directive is 7 May 2018. It wasn't integrated for three years by SYRIZA. The danger was enormous. Why was he huge? Because on 25 July 2019, the country was referred to the European Court of Justice with a threatening sanction of EUR 5.300 for every day of illegality - EUR 15 million was paid for this violation - and immediately, within one month of the vote of confidence taken by the government, it brought the law and mainly protected the citizens' personal data. If you want us to have the debate, indeed to do it, but when we are in a public information area that is moving - you will allow me to say this - uncontrolled information for both the person and its underlying features is really difficult to control. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u31	Thank you too, Minister. Mr. Chaakalot, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Gerapetritis, Professor, as we tell our students when they have suffered a misconduct, they have delayed a job, the excuse is always worse than the original offense. I'm afraid that also applies to you. First, you will know that I am careful, that I will look at your FEK and see your responsibility, coordination of the state of staff. And here we are talking about this case. Secondly, what worried me most of all in your answer was that you invoked the public interest. I mean, you said, on the one hand, there was beating and, on the other, there was a great deal of interest. Really? Was there a great interest in knowing the man who ate if he had gone to two, three, four mobilizations before, whether he had these political opinions or had the other political opinions? And to tell an angelism, you were also glamorous with the truth. You didn't tell us the whole truth. I did not raise this question in the first question. There is also the New Democracy non paper that took all the means, which states all these elements, the name, the opinions. And I'm asking very specific questions. Unless he tells us there's no this non paper. We are in a position to know that he has gone to your Members. So, how did the New Democracy, the government learn the elements of this man? Will you do something about that as a perfect state? Mr Chrysochoidis, in the case of the man accused of attacking the police, has done an investigation, he says - I have a text from the Ministry of Citizen Protection - on how his personal data came out. I would like to ask whether there will be an investigation here to find out who gave the evidence to the New Democracy if he did not give it to the New Democracy, who gave it to Mr Cyranakis. These issues are very serious. You said that there are no files, but that evidence knows all Greece. Somehow it happened, someone gave it up, someone took it. Somebody has to have some responsibility. Mr Gerapititi, because I speak to you, I must tell you that I fear the 'orbanisation' of our society and democracy. That the training of prisoners went to the Ministry of Civil Protection is an element of "orbanisation". That the penitentiary system went to the Ministry of Civil Protection is "orbanisation". That when police attack is being carried out, there are your MPs who justify it and say that it is the SYRIZA or the KKE or the KEY25 it is the 'orbanisation', and I say it to you, because I know that there are people who are also worried about the course of democracy in this country. One way to reverse this is to talk seriously when these things happen. 'orbanisation' will not take place in a moment. It will take small steps towards authoritarianism and repression. That's how it's done. It's not going to happen with a boom. It's gonna be a lot of small evidence. So one way to show that there is a part of the government that is concerned about the course is to have specific answers. I'm sorry to say that, but you haven't given any specific answers. The Greek people need to know how the Member of Parliament knew who keeps this information, who gives this information and where the responsibility will be demanded. You have a chance to draw a line and say: 'To this end! We will not return to the age of the frescoes and to the time when these came out, to target people." Because otherwise, we will either be left uneasy that this man was beaten because he did not have the right ideas or that he was unfortunately beaten, but that's all right, because he has these particular opinions. I think you should give more specific answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Chakaloto. Mr. Gerapititi, you have three minutes too. If you want, you can come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I will tolerate the mask because it is my duty to go to the Step on parliamentary control. Thank you very much, Professor. I would like to point out, first of all, three issues. The first is that you have not spoken of 'public interest'. You spoke of 'public interest'. So when there is a public interest in an issue, according to the established case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, there is greater tolerance for the movement of information. That is the reality and it is a fixed assumption, because, when there is a weighting for rights, there we should weigh things accordingly. So when we have a matter of public interest, the more justified there is a movement of information, even at the limits. The second issue you mentioned is competence. Thank you for honouring me with the question, but I still do not think I am responsible. The final state has to do with organisation and structure, coordination and not with individual responsibilities for government work. Here we have issues that go back to parliamentaryism, to parliamentary ethics, if you like. In the part that has to do with the operation of parties, this refers to your question and not to the coordination and follow-up of government work. Otherwise, I would be in parliamentary control every day to answer all the questions, which would not be too disturbing, but would exterminate me, because we are also at some age. On the third issue of 'orbanism', with all due respect, Professor, I cannot accept that we are at this level. I think that at some point we should restore words in their right sense. We must not - and I say this with all due respect - use words that are symbolic or semantic loaded to give them a concept that does not correspond to the real meaning. We must not use words such as 'junta', we must not use words such as 'populators'. I'm not talking about you, obviously. We must not use words, such as 'fascism'. It would be a good thing if we were to avoid it. It has not given such samples of writing in any case. Let me tell you there are no files. I'll make it clear once and for all. The information was released in public space. It was well known, and under this version, Mr. Kyranakis came and said what he said. But I want to say something else with all due respect, Professor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u35	How did he find out, Mr. Gerapetri?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u36	Do you want the Minister of State to answer how Mr Kyranakis himself knew about it? Professor, the same night thousands of people were aware of this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u37	At least show concern. Are you worried?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u38	I'm always worried, you know. I am also concerned about the proliferation of social networks in democracy, about the uncontrolled flow of information. You know what? In this case, the same night at 22.00 p.m. was released from private social networks a copy of the report - the defendant's statement. The victim gave a statement on the same night and this statement was released for himself, except for the victim's name. Badly released everything. But the victim's name had been erased. You know what wasn't erased? The name of the officer hadn't been erased. Do you know what it was? That there was a violent impediment to social networks, which reached the limits of absolute verbal violence and threats, and I am concerned, Mr Professor, that there was a police officer who had the same name and name as this police officer. And for weeks there has been a horrific violence and a threat to life, because what has been released. We all understand that we may have to look again at the issue of the movement of public information in a public sphere that is uncontrolled. And it is uncontrollable because technology means now allow the exact flow of information and an excellent report of personal data. It is a very difficult weighting, which will become more and more difficult. But I repeat and close with this - I beg your pardon, Mr President - when you have within seconds a fact of the movement of audiovisual material without absolutely any facial, characteristic, it is clear that a wide range of people are able to know. This is an issue that can hardly be retreated. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much. Thank you both very much. Have a good day to both of you. I was a little relaxed, because the subject was serious. The next question is almost the same. That is why, Mr Paphie - I would like to ask you, because you are a little explosive - I will give you time, because this is a serious matter. So we continue with the third question, under the number 543/8.3.2021, of the first cycle of MP B1' North Athens, of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Pafili, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The escalation of state terrorism and repression on the grounds of unacceptable police violence against the residents of Nea Smyrna". Mr. Paphie, good morning. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Ioannis Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, timely questions must be up-to-date and not debate twelve days later. I am passing it now, because it is not our issue, noting that the Prime Minister chose to answer Mr Tsipras and SYRIZA, excluding the other political leaders and avoiding the debate being generalised. We fully understand that. It's an easy opponent, and most importantly it's a convenient controversy to restore bipartementism. It's an old tactic. Our question concerns the take-off of police violence and autocracy with recorded scenes of barbarism, beatings, inductions to the pile, many expressions and acts of "infinite good", mainly by some police officers of DIA and MAT. These are not, in our opinion, zealous or exceptions from some. There are also those in the police who remain, even though you know them. It is a governmental direction that is implemented by a project and programme. He's got three goals. Firstly, it should place the people's criminal responsibilities on the management of the pandemic and, in particular, on young people who are rightly complaining about what the government has not done, in accordance with the suggestions made by the health associations, workers' unions and other mass organizations. Secondly, with this police terrorism to fade the people who are protesting because the government, Mr Chrysochide and Mr Gerapititi who are here, put the people in lockdown and smashed him in the bills. He got away from every limit. He passed barbarism bills, bills that hit the people, and at the same time he calls on him not to complain. He tries to shut his mouth when his life is being crushed in too many areas. Let's tell you one more thing here. The thousands of young people and young people on the streets did not come out to set fires, did not come out to make disasters, as the Prime Minister said. They make these specific groups. That's what the houlgeans did. The police have the front, not there. He couldn't control them when he found out that teams started for New Smyrna. Nor is the graphics that you say - and you say it intentionally - that the youth came down because they were told by the young people of SYRIZA. SYRIZA youth has evolved into the modern Loch Ness monster: everyone hears that there is and nobody has seen it. Three and it's the cocoon. Stop playing this game. Thirdly, the images we live and even come in time are images of the future. Because the government and the staff are aware and the European Union is aware that this barbaric policy will trigger popular reactions, particularly to youth. That's why he's attacking them. It is not a return to the 1960s, nor a far-right arm, said by SYRIZA, to cover his own responsibilities in this area. The police aren't trained either. Of course, there's such evidence. It is the European Union's policy, which is described in the White Paper you shared and presented to us yesterday, which is black and black, as all the people have lived. It's black. He'll take it and the camera so people can know what's waiting for him. It protests, challenges feel the system feel the hot breath of the agony and protests of the peoples and tries to prevent it, even though it is in embryonic form. The "Black Book" for the 21st-century police records them exactly. It is true that today the world dies and the pharmaceutical industries, the multinationals, the private sector. He sees them and feels them every day. So we are asking you now, Mr Chrysochoid, the action team or even the rabies that attacks the world, cut off fines, beaten, etc., how many tests have they done in industries, in workplaces, which are, according to studies, considered to be a health bomb and which is the first dissemination factor? It's a hundred and eighty in supermarkets only. I do not want to say industries, because I will miss someone and that is not right. How many fines did you give? What did you do for businessmen? How many checks did you do there? That's not where he's going. It's just the beating of the world. How many fines? What were they doing on the subway? And what was the government doing in the second, where are public transport? Nothing. No measures were taken. The images, therefore, and the videos we have seen, have even raised trade unions of the police themselves. That makes sense. Protest, refuse to continue to be the bat of the state on the workers' backs, except for some fascoids - that you know them, you have them in and then you wonder what is happening - like the President of Larissa who came out and said 'What happened?' We also took a few cops with an iron club." They're gonna be punished? Finally, you have delusional. And you are deceiving because you are not going to stop class struggle, nor are you going to stop the struggles, nor are the workers and popular strata accepting the modern slavery you are imposing by the laws and imposing the capitalist system itself. They'll get up slowly, and we'll always be with them. We proved it with our attitude when everyone else didn't talk at all. With sanitary measures, strictly organized, disciplined indiscipline everywhere, you were put on your glasses when you smuggled us into a thousand hundred protesters at the Polytechnic school five thousand policemen who didn't wear their masks and fortunately, we probably got away with luck at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u41	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u42	I'll be done. So what do we say? As long as the direction of the police does not change and is oriented towards the blow of the popular movement and not just to the hitting of the crime so will go. We are asking you now: First, dismantle the action group. The whole of Greece is up. Don't you understand? Is everyone wrong? Do you realize what's going on? Fifteen-year-old children with their hands up, with a cell phone on them, on the wall to control them? Sensitive to girls? You saw what it sounded like. Is that how you discipline the police? Second, the MATs, a military body. What do they need? Are they hitting organized crime or popular events? Third, the university police. We invite you - in vain - to rethink it, to cancel it. You'll achieve the opposite. It is not the student movement to be subjected to police methods. He's gonna solve his problems. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too. But you didn't hear me. The Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, will answer. Mr Chryssohoidis, you have three minutes, which, of course, are not enough to answer Mr Pafile.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Pafile, allow me a personal tone, with a lot of love and a lot of sympathy. If this vile climate, the anti-democratic environment you described, existed already, I really wouldn't be Minister, and we would probably both protest on the streets together. Let me - I repeat - the personal tone. You're an old fighter. You know what police rule means. You also lived a part of the junta. So your word and performances I think they should have a measure and a comparison. So let's take your argument from the start. The events of Nea Smyrna say it's another link in the chain of escalating state repression. State repression? Is that how the state crackdown takes place? With teams with blocks that cut COVID fines? Because that's what happened. That's how Nea Smyrna started. The pointless violence that has been done, with what has been said before, is obvious that they are absolutely condemnable, is not tolerated. We apologise by the Prime Minister's mouth, I too apologise to anyone who has suffered any arbitraryness. Our aim with the legislative and institutional interventions that we have been doing all this time is to limit the phenomenon to a minimum and to highlight all the issues of police arbitrariness and violence, so that responsibility can be attributed to them, in a way that is absolutely objective and quickly objective. I do not underestimate it as a fact, then, what happened in New Smyrna. I'm not saying it's the only one. As long as there is power there will always be danger and facts of abuse. The question is the extent, frequency, trend, whether or not they are constantly increasing, what measures are we taking and whether or not, without asterisks, we condemn them? In this sense, I think we agreed, that we condemn them and that the whole political system is in agreement. Mr Pafile, ladies and gentlemen, 12 million checks on the pandemic have been carried out by the police in one year, in twelve months. How many episodes did it happen? It's ten, fifteen, twenty, fifty, a hundred? I say there's been a hundred at 12 million. Looks like a sedation, already escalating? Let's really respect the words. I would also like to inform you, because you mentioned earlier in the workplace, that we have seventy-two thousand at work. The police had never lived in such a pandemic before. None of us knew what the pandemic was. Why are we tanning our image? Well worked together, well done, and let fatigue now grow from closure, and let fatigue increase, and from the policemen, who since March have not been breathing since last year. I say again, the New Smyrna event is hideous, but we are wronging ourselves and common sense if we say it's a rule, because escalating government repression would have had if it were a rule. It is an exception, and indeed a quantitative one - not qualitatively - insignificant. I repeat no quality. You then say in your question that the announcement by EL.AS is challenging. And that he's trying to do the white one. I'm sorry. The police only say facts, nothing else. He doesn't make judgments, he doesn't do evaluations, he didn't say anything fake. Attacks were taken, ESA is being held for all of this under our supervision, following our own legislative initiative, after our own institutional safeguarding of the Citizens' Counselor, who will soon acquire, as you know, an assistant, who will only deal with police arbitrariness and the monitoring mechanism for police arbitrariness over time. They don't change pointless violence, they don't get into the scale on the other hand. And it's no excuse I want to tell you, it's facts and let everyone judge them. Now, what take-off are you talking about, even charging this violence to the government? Is it a "take-off" of violence that, throughout Greece, in fifty days, Mr. Pafilis, there were six hundred two meetings and twenty-five meetings alone? You really claim that? From six hundred thirty-two to twenty-five only episodes occurred. Is this where we have escalated violence? Eighty-nine took place in Athens. Only in nineteen cases were the roads closed and in only fourteen had incidents. I don't throw numbers on your head to excite realities. It's just, coolly, I'm putting the conversation on the real dimensions. One more thing, Mr. Palphie. You, the JRC, I mean, you know, protest and preserve your events.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u45	And get beaten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u46	But when we talk in general, you know very well that you are not alone. Events in New Smyrna two days after Sunday joined the land luben, as you rightly said, and violent minorities in unthinkable acts with five hundred and more molotovs. Is this a crackdown with nine injured police officers, no protester? I wonder who's doing violence after all. In New Smyrna, you participated in the process, and when you unexpectedly ended your protest, you left. Who sent you? Who broke the image of your protest? I am addressing all these questions, and I repeat - with sympathy and a personal tone of your arguments, because I would like to take the debate a step further. Who wins with words unbelievable about anger suppression about a junta over the 1950s? Who wins? The luben and violent minorities, no one else. And they are exploited by any political parties with no positions, no backbone and no power to say clearly what they believe and why. This is not your case, I want to make it quite clear, but you speak their language sometimes, frankly. I'm finishing up, Mr. Paphie. We have nothing to do with a people's movement nor with an uprising youth nor with angered by the repression of citizens. Half the protests, Mr. Pafile, were for Kufontina, as you know, which you didn't participate in. And so far, in universities, they're taking over some extreme evidence that half of them are no longer students. We are dealing with a tiredly closed society, surprised, scared, with angling life, with economic problems, with a future that often does not seem clean in Greece, as throughout Europe and throughout the planet. So instead of looking for party victories in front of this difficult treaty and charges that can't stand, let's see how we can get out faster, with fewer losses, and lives and economic losses, for the weakest. We're a handful of ten million souls. We've done a lot historically. We now have a chance to correct every day and our mistakes and correct decades' delays and, above all, over the last decade. So let us stand with them and with them. What we have to do to get back on our feet is a lot. We don't need to discover fairy tales with dragons policemen and indictments and torture. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u47	Be well. Mr. Paphie, you've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u48	Minister, since you wanted the personal element, which is not the case, because we speak politically, we have eaten wood from 1974 to 1977, and I am not talking about the junta - wood we have eaten from PASOK. Three and a half tons of chemicals you dropped us and you were Minister of the Kildon protest. We have eaten wood - and the world is - and with governments during the crisis. That is what is happening today. What does it mean to say that you honor us and tell us that we are otherwise? Is that why you hit us at the Polytechnic? Is that why you also threw chemicals at our party secretary? Is that why the Group of the European People's Party was preoccupied and beaten? What are you telling us? So, when we were leaving, you threw us the chemicals? So when we agreed and said that we were leaving and making a symbolic protest, you also made "Aida", with the kind sponsorship of the SYRIZA government, where do you intend to proceed with it? We will therefore not make a comparison. Every time it has different features. However, the policy of suppressing the people's struggles in many forms and with violence is timeless and logical. She's intertwined with the system you serve. When there is an anti-population policy, there is also a protest. And when you can't avoid her, you're trying to terrorize. And I'm not just talking about you. I'm talking about all governments. After all, the most characteristic example is the ones written in the White Paper, which is black and which is a copy of the language of the European Union and NATO itself, which is the author himself. What do you think? You say that the security risks are increasing social tensions, increasing claims, radicalism. Really, what do you think, that there will be barbarism, that 1% and 10% will have 90% of world GDP and people will sit and look? Aren't they going to protest? There are uncompromising social contradictions. And to remind you, if you were once different, - I am not talking about you alone, but about others - that the history of societies is the history of the struggle of classes that have opposing interests. Unless capitalism did a bourgeoisie and solved all the problems. That is why we are saying that violence is escalating and in pandemic conditions. And I'll tell you again, but nobody's answering. Why has the government not respected a people who have shut him in and who have dying, not to pass serious bills? The opposite did, and we know it very well. Now, I have to answer the rest of the questions because you put a number of questions. As far as fine tangles are concerned, I don't know how much he cut, tell us how many fines you cut in business? Do you have any evidence? You told us you did seventy-two thousand checks. What did you do? Tell us. Where the cases were, etc., how many fines did they cut? Other than checks. Checks were carried out, but what was the result? There is the unbaptised of entrepreneurship. This is where people die, and you don't oversee private clinics. He's got licenses, they're waiting for them to die or enter, empty a bed, and you don't overthrow the clinics. And we've been telling you all along. And we're talking about now, not generally how you handled the situation. Also, the police aren't breathing. You're scooping them. You assigned them to go cut off fines to someone who's walking. Of course, there are also some illegal people. But the world can't stand it anymore. The other guy's going to the park and they're coming over and they're counting him if it's two or three meters. Are you giving the cops overtime? For almost all trade unions are protesting. And we've asked dozens of questions about the police problems. For Nea Smyrna and the minorities: Listen, Mr Chrysochoidis and the others, to get together. Here the game is set. Not now, many years. And it is set up, because there are both state and state mechanisms - every time incidents are so caused - there are hooligans. I'm telling you, didn't the police know they were gathering from everywhere and texting? He knew. What did he do? Nothing. He let them come there. Instead of going there, he chased the world. And the episodes began before, to speak practically. The same happens all the time. There are huge, big protests coming in and a group of 50 people come in, and I don't know if we can take the masks off how many we'll find in an mandated agency. You're laughing because you know what's going on. Because the police and there they own, but also the various hooligans. I'm going to tell you another example. What do students want? To be students. They're asking to open the university, and the dean calls the MATs. And I'm not talking about a few people taking over, because that's what we're against. We're in favor of mass struggle. Symbolic may exist. So they're asking for them to be students. In fact, they started teaching on their own, with students of the larger classes, and I don't know if teachers are involved. So you're answering them with that operation? They're announcing they're leaving the occupation, and you're organizing a police operation with helicopters, cars, etc. for ten people and you are creating an unbearable situation. And the rest of the world, of course, responds. We therefore tell you that this policy will continue. We know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u49	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u50	However, the people will not be subjected to it, nor will it be afraid as long as some think. So stop - we have made three proposals again - and at least take some measures. Finally, I'm going to make a little comment. We will also see the results of the SADs, they will also come out of interrogations. So far we know most of the prosecutors are dating, not the defendants. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u51	Be well. Mr. Chrysochoid, three minutes for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u52	I'll be very brief. We're not the only country in the world that has police. You are listening around us to what is happening in the countries of the European Union which have the means of repression. I will not tire you by numbering out what is happening in every country. We have the least and the softest means of repression in Europe. The fewer! No rubber bullets, no sprays, no horses, no grenades, no rubber or police dogs. Absolutely nothing! We have, during the pandemic, the least episodes in Europe, the less repression and few incidents of police arbitrariness. In Germany, France, Italy, Spain, even the Netherlands and Belgium the protests against vaccination or mask are violent, usually far-reaching, and the injuries of citizens and police dozens. So let us stop, for small reasons, putting large triples on our own in the country's reputation, when the summer and the tourist season are near. But I'll say it again with a number, Mr. Paphie. There have been six hundred and thirty two demonstrations throughout Greece, half of them for Kufontina, in the outbreak of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u53	Minister, aren't you telling us about massage, union, workers? How much was with the others? Have you counted it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u54	That's right. There have been six hundred thirty two protests. Half of it was for Koufundina. Some people hugged them, as you know. Not you. They were named movement and popular struggles. That is, I think, political irresponsibility. And it is sacred to confuse the movement and the struggles with the hatred of a luben left-wing Trumpism that raises head and is encouraged by some. I'll finish with a mention of the young people, because young people are in the protests, young people are in the occupations, young people are colluding. I believe that it is not a protest fuel, it is not a meat for the cannons of political confrontation by young people. Every time there are conflicts with young people, we go back two steps. Young people suffer the pandemic, while less than everyone is ill, have suffered the economic crisis that has sent them abroad and the rest of them deprives them of a solid future. Transgenerational contradictions and inequality were intense and became much larger. Their priority is justice, rights and the environment. So that must also be our requirement. We need them to build a new Greece and their future to create them, to separate them. Some young people, not only students, have lost their faith in the state, are often driven into extreme anti-democratic and anti-social behaviors. They find refuge in denial and build an identity to arbitrariness. Fields, sympathy to terrorism, violent groups, sometimes in universities, are witness to this situation. We can't and we don't have the right to let them out of jail. I appeal to parents, teachers and young people themselves not to leave violence, fanaticism, polarization, hatred to dominate. You're young, part of our future. We're not your enemies. The police, the state is not the dragon of any fairy tale. The police are young, your age, they work dangerous, with very limited revenues and they wear uniforms. Police officer perpetrated unnecessary, convicted, violence on Sunday. A police officer almost died two days later after the incidents. Life and democracy have no dead ends. We are suffering, perhaps by mistakes, with imperfections, but we are struggling, for better conditions, less violence, better life. No room is worth you. We don't want you there. Come back and in life. Democracy always gives opportunities for better life. Democracy - as you know - is the civilization of hope. Soon the pandemic will end and it will end an intergenerational inequality against young people. I hope with her that lawlessness, which often blurs our thoughts, will end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Minister. Have a good day to both of you. We're changing climate. Let's go to the next question. It is the second question under number 3657/28-1-2021 of the circle of petitions - questions, of the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Introductions of horticultural products from third countries into a pandemic of COVID -19'. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. The question has been submitted by the Change Movement since January 28, 2021. He didn't answer. We are coming back under the timely procedure, because the publications and complaints concerning imports of dubious quality and possibly harmful to the health of consumers of plant products and animal production are continuing. Fruit and vegetables, tomatoes, sesame, shellfish from third countries are the ones reported. At the same time as this is happening, Greek producers are struggling and trying through the difficult conditions that have been created by the pandemic to cope with production at a high cost and at the same time with markets closed, focusing on closed, with problems in the people's markets, with problems in export. As you know, there are two basic regulations on the health and safety of food, feed, consumer safety, from 2002 onwards, starting in 2019, which clearly stipulates that the European Commission is responsible for policy and control of monitoring the implementation of measures, but the role of the state authorities designated by each Member State has the role to play in its controls. In this sense, I would like us to know what the services responsible for our country are to control both the import of products coming from third countries, but - regardless of which country they come from or are produced - to control quality, to control residues, to check what is imposed by the two regulations to check, in order to have safety for consumers. And, of course, you should tell us whether you have any information about the controls that have been carried out in 2020, which was a year of pandemic and the issues that have to do with the articles and complaints, and of course tell us whether there is a plan to further and more drastically deal with these cases that have been identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Ioannis Economou. Mr. Economou, good morning and iron! I don't know if I had a chance, we don't lose anything to wish you luck.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, in your question, there are issues that are very serious, which concern Greek producers and which deal with the priorities of the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. I will try to respond to all your concerns and now to secondary issues. I am starting with the part of the controls, both in terms of Greekism and in terms of food safety. As you know, the term "Greekisations" is not new, new and recent, but it is the possibility that we have through Law No4691/2020 which we voted on some time ago - Minister was Mr Vorides - so that we can incorporate into our institutional arsenal as an illegal commercial practice the condition of Hellenism and by this law the introduction of a series of emphatic sanctions, namely the strictness of the Community framework, in particular with regard to PDO and PGI products and organics, for the first time, by giving criminal sanctions to offenders and by introducing deterrent methods and practices, such as the increase in financial fines for those who were subsidising them. Our main objective is to protect Greek production and ensure product safety, so, Mr Kegeroglou, ladies and gentlemen, the second step following the introduction of this institutional framework, by tightening up the Community framework, is the reorganisation of our control mechanism, the removal of overlapping, the use of new technologies for traceability, unification and interoperability of control mechanisms and control systems. Now, in particular, as regards fruit and vegetables you refer to your question, as you know, the responsible address is the Directorate of Quality and Food Safety of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. It is responsible for supervising and coordinating all the authorities implementing the forthcoming controls in the fruit and vegetables sector. When fresh fruit and vegetables are imported into the country, it is compulsory to make a notification to the information system of the Register of Fresh Fruit and Vegetables. Checks shall be carried out on 100% of the documentation and data and where the system imposes and indicates physical checks are carried out. Such checks were made several times in 2020. Nine hundred and ninety-five checks were carried out, i.e. about a thousand, and five hundred and twenty-six infringements were detected. To complement here that we have effectively strengthened the control staff of this directorate by transferring all eight regional centres to the responsibilities and coordination of that directorate, which currently has at its disposal the seventy geoponses and arms all over the country. With regard to the very serious issue you are putting in your question, namely the testing of plant products related to the detection of residues of pesticides, in order to ensure consumer health, I would like to tell you that controls, regular and extraordinary are carried out every year. Indeed, in 2018 and 2019, there was an increasing incidence of excesses of maximum limits, which led our Ministry, in addition to regular audits in 2020, to make two extraordinary checks. I'll present you to the minutes with the audits and the findings. Appropriate checks have been planned for 2021 and we will reflect this priority, because it is clearly about consumer safety, and the audit programmes that we are going to draw up in the next few years. I should like to tell you that, to date, according to our 2021 audit data, from the thirteen samples of Turkish origin which were checked, residue concentrations higher than the permitted levels were found in four samples, namely 30%. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Economou. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have a complex problem, which has to do with the pursuit of high profits, speculation, from the point of view of some of the consumer's health, but at the same time at the expense of producers in our country and of the producers in other countries who comply with the rules. What's the problem? In order to reduce the cost of production in some countries either they have authorised pesticides which are banned in the European Union or illegally using them in order to compete unequally, unfairly and unfairly with products produced under health and safety rules. That is the problem of the European Union. That is the problem that the two regulations want to deal with. The two regulations are good? Of course, they're excellent on paper. Where's the system? But in control. We have gates of entry into the European Union, which are not just our homeland. We may in another European Union country have the first entry, that is where it is controlled and then it comes as the European seal in Greece, in our country. There are too many problems. What will have to be done through the system is to see which countries systematically send us products with high residues that violate health and safety rules on the market. They're specific. Is it Turkey? You said some evidence. As denounced by the RASFF system, we have excessive remnants. The publications refer specifically to this. Are other third countries at our northern border operating in the same way? Of course it is. So, for tomatoes, for all fruit and vegetables, for the sesame we recently had in inspections, you should be able to identify how, when and who systematically does this work - not only as an importer but also as a country - you should go through the second upgraded stage of dealing with the problem. Hellenization is a method to avoid control. If it succeeds and Greekizes, there is no control from there on, only the control of the EFSI - and, if any, because they too are samplebooks - but it has a passport, as a Greekized, more secure. That is where crime is doubled: and defamation, because it is considered Greek and it is not, and of course unequal competition against Greek producers. That is why we want to see at this second upgraded stage, which we have to de facto come through, if the Ministry has thought, if it has organised in such a way and what else it needs - apart from the staff you said - to see all these 'alkaponists', all those who are speculating against the Greek producer, the Greek consumer, and also the European producer and from other countries - who are honoured to comply with the rules of good agricultural practice and the quality rules that are affected by this situation - how we are dealing with them and how we are catching them. The publications are many - I will present them to you in the Minutes - from "New KRITI", by "AGROTYOUTO", an article published by PAOKE, the Pan-Hellenic Centre for Economic Research, in order to be aware, because we will also have stimuli in relation to the parliamentary interventions we are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u61	Minister Economou has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the question of implementing the regulations, which have an adequate framework to deal with all these illegal and dangerous practices you mentioned, is a great wager for the Greek state. I think that everyone is aware of it and you will also find it from the control data I have submitted to the Minutes, Mr Kegeroglu, that important steps have been taken. Also, a very important step was the armouring of our institutional arsenal with the last law on the Greekisations and the stricterisation of sanctions. I told you that the new legislative initiatives, which will reorganise the control mechanism, will allow this traceability and this information to provide us with the critical information we want for countries that are frequent offenders or for the most suspicious gates or for the most suspicious categories of products. Let me say here, of course, that in this dimension you have raised, namely, the health dimension of products and consumer protection, as far as residuals are concerned, we are also trying, in a number of other actions, to always cost back the new CAP, which, as you know, promotes the least possible use of pesticides - we have this obligation not only as a country, but as a whole, all the countries of the European Union in view of the new CFP to limit the use of pesticides - to convince Greek producers of their more rational management. And I dare say that our country is at very good, very satisfactory levels, compared with other European Commission countries. I would therefore like to make it clear that it is our central and immediate priority to monitor this dimension and with the initiatives that we take in the next few years, you will see that the control mechanism will also be much more effective. On the basis of your question, I would like to say a few words, Mr Kegeroglu and Mr President, on our policies and practices. The main priority of each agricultural policy must be how we shape the conditions so that it becomes competitive, resilient and sustainable and is - if you like - the steam engine in trying to change the production model of the country and obviously leads, through these initiatives and moves, to an increase in the income available to the Greek producer. As easy and attractive as I would say - and totally uniting, another as demanding and difficult it is to draw up a framework of policies and actions that ensures it. So we in the Ministry of Rural Development and Food went ahead, did and continue to plan a series of actions aimed at increasing the income of the Greek producer, institutional actions. We have reduced taxation, as you know very well. We suspended payment of the trade fee. We have introduced a generous reduction in farmers' insurance contributions by decoupling them from income. We have encouraged and encouraged the building of large collective schemes, cooperatives, producer groups in order to achieve the necessary scale economies and increase their negotiating capacity. I would also like to add to the part of the institutional interventions and the bill that has already been submitted to the committee responsible, Mr President, and will be discussed in the next period, a bill on the incorporation of the European directive on unfair commercial practices between businesses in the agricultural and food supply chain. It has a number of things in the interests of producers, the suppliers of agricultural products, such as - for example - that is to say - its payment to a maximum of thirty days for the sale of vulnerable livestock products and sixty days for a number of other agricultural products. It tackles the practice of open price, which is a great wound, as you know very well, on the market and a number of other issues that we will be able to discuss in the next few days. At the same time - and I close with this, Mr President - we are making the best possible use of a number of financial and development instruments available to us, the Rural Development Programme, money from the Development Fund, so that we can effectively and sustainablely strengthen the income of the Greek producer. What adds value to the product? It gives the right counseling support. We pulled out the programme of the agricultural advisers. His consultation is over and will be proclaimed in the next few months. The characteristics sought by the consumer in the product give added value. We are planning a new programme for organic farming, more attractive, which will also catch products and crops that have direct access to promotion to the consumer, as well, the acquisition of standards that are internationally recognised in products dynamically. We are planning a number of things that lead to lowering production costs by reducing irrigation costs. We plan elevation projects with both the AAA and through the Recovery Fund, the possibility of using photovoltaics in small irrigation schemes, initiatives and measures that improve the competitiveness of the producer and industry, such as demographic renewal. The consultation of the Youth Farmers' Programme, in which there is an impressive increase in the import premium, which is almost more than doubled to EUR 35 000 to EUR 40,000, has been completed. It is also possible to finance the acquisition of computer equipment through the improvement plans, the investment in processing - particularly fruit and vegetables, the object of your question - of access to banking, the Farm Card, the activation of the Guarantee Fund, with which we are leveraging resources of EUR 480 million. And we don't stop there. We combine a series of actions and interventions which, among other things, aim to strengthen the incomes of the Greek producer, to increase the income of the Greek producer, but in the biennial, sustainable and substantial way. I should like to add to that the aid given by the pandemic and COVID -19 in a number of sectors by the Greek state, by the Greek state, in the context of the regulations in force by the European Commission, of course, the examination of requests. Also, in a number of sectors that come to the Ministry and which in constant consultation with the Ministry of Finance, in the context of the country's budgetary endurance, we are supporting them, we are supporting them and we will give the necessary support and assistance to producers, who are obviously also suffering from the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too. Before we go to the next topical question, I should like to say that the fourth question by No 558/12-32021 is not discussed with conscientious consent by the Member of Parliament, Mr.Kosokalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Fighting the phenomenon of desertification and its consequences'. Nor is it debated because of the blockade of parliament, the fifth under number 546/9-32021, a topical question from the first group of Vice-Chairmen of Parliament and Members of Parliament B3's South Athens Section, Mer25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject of "Participatory practices by the Government". The following three topical questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Fotini Arabatzis. And we go to the first of them, in the second under number 549/11-3-2021, a timely question for the first cycle of the Members of the Elias Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'When will the producers of Elias be compensated for the loss of income suffered by the pandemic, but also the recent frost?' Here, Mr Katrin, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. May I wish the Deputy Minister, Mr. Economou, and the ironhead, and passing through. Madam Undersecretary, you remember that about forty-five days ago, on February 5, we had again asked the same question about the compensation of the farmers of Elias for the products that have suffered loss of income due to COVID -19. These products are late watermelon, bitter autumn potatoes, vegetables and salads, both periods, March 2020 and autumn 2020, and greenhouses and outdoors, as well as early mandarins and oranges, which have been dipped in their price in December and January, two months ago. In fact, you have answered the question then that late watermelon and autumn potato will be compensated, but forty-five days have already passed since then and the producers so far do not know either the exact amount of compensation or the timetable, that is, when these compensations will be completed, or the procedure by which this is to be done. At the same time, at least you did not formally reply to the House at the time - and I say, because at the same time, the Minister held a meeting with MPs from my constituency, from Elias, and said that in addition to late watermelon and autumn potatoes, there is also concern for horticultural and salads, but also for citrus fruits - as to whether you would compensate these categories of products, which you know very well that they were either absent or sold at degrading prices, because the focus was closed for a very long time, a treaty that remains now. So there is a risk that third horticultural and salad farming will go back to very low prices or remain unsold. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as oranges and mandarins are concerned, prices in the early days fell from EUR 0.20 to EUR 0.7. All of this has come to add the damage due to the ice-cream from "Medea" to several crops in the Prefecture of Ilias, of course, with ELGA - to be fair - to be mobilised directly in terms of estimates. The appreciators are here. However, there is no specific timetable here for compensation to be paid to producers. So many of the blows in the primary sector, which for us in Elias, is the main economic parameter of the whole prefecture. I would therefore like to ask you three questions: first, when and with what amount will you compensate the late watermelon and autumn potato producers, as you said a month and a half ago? Secondly, do you intend to compensate horticulture and salads for both periods of 2020 and citrus fruits for the period December 2020-January 2021? Thirdly, is there a timetable for damages by means of ELGAs for crops which have been damaged because of the "Medea"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr Katrin. Mr Arabatzis has the floor now. Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, we did meet at this step on 5 February, one month ago, in which I presented to you what is a dogma for both the government and the Ministry of Rural Development, and the Minister, Mr Lebanese, has developed it at the meeting which you claimed to have taken place immediately after the timely reply. This doctrine is that no producer who has proved to be affected by the pandemic crisis of the coronary will be unfounded, since this crisis is indeed linked to the coronary and argues that it is related to it - and this is being discussed in the European Commission - but of course always on the basis of the country's financial resources, which we must not ignore, like you, because I am sure you are ignored. So let's see what changed from then on until today when we're talking about. First of all, I would remind you of what has been done on the relevant dossier on the strengthening of the crops to which you are referring, of the surplus potato. I understand your anxiety and as a Member of Parliament elected in the Serres Law, I am concerned about the same anxiety and of course as having governmental responsibility for the whole country. The relevant file for the reinforcement of the surplus potato and late watermelon was sent to the Ministry of Finance on 26 January. Since we talked about this: On 8-2-2021, that is, three days after we were discussing the dossier, the dossier was sent to the European Commission for its approval, on the basis of the provisional framework for State aid measures to support the economy from the uprooting of the krone, as the Temporary Framework imposes on State aid. It's happened, of course, more important than that. On 5 March 2021 - I have the relevant document here - the European Commission gave the green light to the fact that the aid requested by our Ministry, amounting to about EUR 26 million, in fact EUR 25 782,000, is not illegal State aid and that the request is entirely in line with the conditions laid down in the Temporary Framework. In other words, the national dossier for support to enterprises active in the primary agricultural sector, and in particular in the fields of rural watermelons, greenhouses - other than Crete - was adopted - for summer and autumn potatoes and, of course, for the farming of Greek cattle. This approval, Mr President - I imagine you will agree - clearly demonstrate the accuracy and documentation of the relevant national dossier for the loss of income in the above-mentioned sectors because of the pandemic, which is documented and correct arguments, obviously, were made by the Services at our Ministry with the address of the political leadership. They collected all the data from both the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and its bodies, the Central Markets Agency and ELSTAT, to present them to the European Commission. What remains, Mr Colleague, is the final approval of the amount by the Ministry of Finance, by Mr. Skylakakis, since in any case the budget of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food for the payment of this aid is strengthened by national money. Communication with the Ministry of Finance of the Ministry of Rural Development and the Minister of Lebanese is - believe me - daily for all the requests that are sent, so that we can respond to the crisis issues quickly and documentedly. So, according to the communication we have, the adoption of the decision by Mr. Pylakakis is estimated to take place next week. I will say'subsequent', but in any case keep'subsequent'. Thereafter, Mr Colleague, as you know very well, the relevant CST and the platform for submitting the applicants' declarations to the OPECE are set out. I shall use an example of the aids so far. So, what is it? In previous aid of this type, the final date of the producers’ applications on the date of their final payment to many of the aid would not exceed twenty days. I think that this is something that we need to underline positively, given that all procedures are done in the midst of the pandemic crisis and the issues that, as you can see, arise as to the speed of response from the public sector. I would like to remind you, of course, that you in effect paid Elias three quarters of your potato, because you had the spring that was paid. You have been paid 40% of the watermelons, which was the early one that was paid and are expected to have 1/4 on the potato and the rest on the watermelon. Now let's go to the citrus fruits you're talking about in your question. I should like to say that in our Ministry there was a request for support from your region on December 14, 2020 from the rural association of Salmonis Pyrgos and an equivalent request for citrus fruit, leafy vegetables and vegetables from the rural cooperative "Food land" on January 7th. The Ministry of Rural Development and Food during this period examines the data from all the regions of the country - and your own, including as regards citrus fruits and salads - in order to determine, as is done with all other sectors, whether an income loss is actually assumed for the following processes. [[At this point the ending bell of the speaking time of the Madam Secretary-General is ringing.]] Finally, you will allow me to refer to the words of the ELGA and the "Media" - I would like to mention, for example...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u67	In your dentistry, please, Minister, why do you have to look at the clock?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u68	I mean, for example, because I think it is important to hear a few things, that according to the figures of the Ministry of Finance, the farmers of the Regional Unit of Elijah have received an advance on the varieties we have mentioned, that is, potatoes producers, vegetables, citrus fruits, vegetables, watermelons, 1.33 million euros from the returnee and all the farmers and farmers of the Regional Unit of Elijah have received 5,32 million euros back and a non-refundable advance. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. Mr. Katrinis has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, because you mentioned some elements, I am sure you are aware that according to EUROSTAT - at least to the latest available data - the Elias Act is the first county in the European Union in 2017 at a rural specialisation rate. This means that the income generated is mainly agricultural. Therefore, whatever amounts you refer to Elias as aggregates from repayables, compensations due to COVID -19, be sure that they are too small in relation to the total agricultural income produced in the Prefecture of Elijah. The number of 5 million may seem great, but if we look at the income produced in Elijah, you can be sure that it is not only about a very small percentage. Furthermore, the fact that some producers were compensated for early watermelon and spring potato does not mean that those who suffered damage to late watermelon and autumn potatoes also have inexhaustible margins of patience. I think that's what you agree with. Now let's go to the object. I'll start with the positive. It is good that you are giving a timeline. You say that "we in ten days will have the final decision and in twenty days, in one month from now we will have compensation for late watermelon and autumn potatoes". But you are not telling us what the compensation amount for these two products is. And since Mr Vesyropoulos is here to say that you have sent the Ministry of Finance a request and approved on 5 March. He's in the Treasury. I do not know if the farmers of Elias are a low priority in the Ministry of Finance, but there is no room for endurance. Let the Ministry of Finance speed up the compensation and tell us what is the amount by which they will be compensated. That is what the producers of Elijah are currently interested in. Secondly, you have not made it clear to us, Madam Secretary, after your examination and investigation, because you have referred to a request from a group of citrus producers only if you will in the end compensate for citrus fruits. Also in salad horticulture, there is global damage to both greenhouses and outdoors. I think - if I'm not mistaken - that greenhouses in Crete were compensated. So there is a precedent for such crops that have suffered because of the closed focus, due to the pandemic of similar damages. I think that today you need to make it clear whether or not these categories of products will be compensated. There is no room for anyone who has produced and in March 2020 and September 2020, who has been damaged twice, to hear a year after the government that 'we will look at whether you have actually been damaged' since you have paid similar compensation in a regional section of the country. Here, therefore, there must be justice and application of the same rules. I understand that the budgets are finite, but a whole region cannot be left out because it has not been able to get its request examined first, and others have been able to do so. I would like to invite you in good faith, firstly, to see the real problem of the vegetable salad producers for two periods, and I fear they will also have, for this time, as long as the focus remains closed and, secondly, the issue of citrus fruits. I would ask the Ministry of Finance, through you, to make a fair decision on the amount of compensation - I do not know if you reveal it to us in your dentistry - and, if possible, to speed up the procedures. There's no room. Already Elias, because of the fall in the price of olive oil, because of the more general crisis and because it is a prefecture that has a farm income, has suffered a great deal of damage. I'll wait for the ELGA compensation. I repeat, because I want to be fair, that the ELGA mechanism has been mobilised quickly. The first assessments have been made. As you can see, it is very important and very interesting to hear from you when you estimate that these damages will be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u71	And we thank Mr. Katrin. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u72	Mr Colleague, in order not to create any kind of misunderstanding, I am not abducted by what I have said in my prototype. I just want to be precise. As far as the 20th day is concerned, I have set an example of the actions and not of the reasons, of the response of the services and ministries to relevant requests, and this example can act proportionately, giving an answer to exactly when producers will pay the specific loss of income. I will repeat what I said in my prototype: make a little patience, Mr Katrin. The amount will be announced by the Ministry of Finance, by which, I repeat, we are on a daily basis, as we must, working together on the best possible outcome. With all due respect, we make some comparisons of disparate things. Compare the annual income of the producers of Elijah, which I respect and suspect - and I encourage them even more - that we have such examples on a greater income scale, with a two-monthly refunder. I mean, you can't compare what's being given by the Treasury as a returnee and about the turnover of a two-month period with the one-year turnover. You understand that. Also, because you said it last time, making a comparison of discretion between your prefecture or other prefectures and Crete, to say that other varieties of Crete and their harvesting time and other varieties and the harvesting time of your own crops. So don't compare unparalleled things. Another time they are harvested, another time the spring potato is harvested - let us say - and another time the autumn is harvested. Isn't that right, Mr. Comrade? I'm glad you recognized both in your protology and in your dentext that ELGA is being mobilised immediately. So let me say that with regard to the producers affected by the weather phenomena, the ELGA has completed the work of estimates and the payment of compensation for the majority of the losses suffered in 2020, including those caused by the 'January', by giving your regional section EUR 1730,000. I will now say that, in fact, it is a record year, which has to do with a government order to close the compensation last year in the first few months of next year. How did that happen? It's not just with the government order. It was because, for the second time, the state budget gave ELGA 35m euros - it had to be ten years - in order to respond quickly to the demands of the affected. The payment of compensation for the remaining losses of 2020 will be completed by April's payment. Now, with regard to the damage from the "Medea" phenomenon, which took place on 16 and 17 February 2021, in the Regional Unit of Elias, there were two hundred ninety-three announcements and a thousand four hundred three statements of damage were submitted. The work of the assessments is ongoing, carried out by the ten geotechnics step of the ELGA Patras branch, who will be assisted by 15 more valuers in order to make the value project very quickly. You know that under the insurance regulation, losses from glaciers, which exceed 15 February, but all late varieties in your area, Valencia, Lane Late, Ovale Calabria, etc., are not covered in insurance, they do not have time limits to receive damage insurance and will therefore be compensated for the losses from the glacier. Therefore, from the total of twenty-four thousand four hundred thirty-three acres declared to the OPEKEPE with oranges, for the Regional Unit of Elias, the vast majority, namely the twenty-three acres, will be compensated properly. For crops and varieties which, due to planting or harvesting time such as fruit and vegetables, lettuce, broccoli, etc. and related to the 2020 IAS is estimated that the assessment, disclosure and payment of compensation will be completed by the end of April. For the crops and varieties whose insurance coverage is linked to the IAS in 2021, the notification of the findings and the payment of the compensation may not be carried out earlier than the completion of the OPEKEPE cross-checks and the payment of the basic payment as laid down in the procedures provided for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, too. We proceed to the fourth with No 545/9-32021 top-level question from the Greek Parliamentary State, Mr. Vassiliardou, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on ‘Aid measures for livestock farming due to an increase in feed prices’. Mr. Villard, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. Thank you very much for your presence. In recent months there has been a great increase in feed prices over 30% this year, such as soybeans, leading producers to despair. There is therefore a direct need for measures for the primary sector and especially for animal feed, noting that we will be tabling 12 documents in the Minutes for everything we say. We have asked questions both of us - both of us - and other parties on the subject, by submitting one of them in the Minutes, so as not to exaggerate. We consider it urgent to take decisions. The fact that feed is essential for livestock farming is of course self-evident. Their inadequacy is not only a risk to the survival of animals, but also to livestock in the immediate future, because meat production and profitability depend on fattening. And any cuts in the diet can keep the herds, but not the yield. At the same time, they will double profitability, due to the fact that feedingstuffs represent 67% of production costs in livestock farming. The increase in costs is very difficult to increase sales prices by charging end-users. As it is understandable at the moment, we are facing a time bomb, since if production is not guaranteed, units will be closed, so the problem of food shortages will be intensified. The issue was raised by Mr Voridis, who, perhaps as a lawmaker in the profession, launched a protest against Romania's export cut. That's right, he did it. It may now be able to prevent them, but we do not think that these kinds of claims are sufficient for our food in the future, while in addition to the supply, the price offered by the products plays an important role. So 2020 may be rather food surplus after many years, due to the sharp drop in tourism, but if it comes back to 50%, we will have a significant increase in demand, as well as the cost of tourism that is already problematic. In addition to the immediate solution required, we believe that the State or any appropriate body should ensure future prices for feed, for example, through forward contracts, Futures, in order to balance changes in prices or even provide such guaranteed products for farmers who cannot be exposed to derivatives markets. Our question is this: Do you intend and how, to ensure that feed prices are reduced and stabilised before costs increase? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you are really putting too many issues into your question, which I will try at the disproportionately short time available on the basis of parliamentary control, to answer. The subject you're putting is very warm. We just have to make some clarifications, I think in this Chamber. In other words, for those who do not know that the majority of feeds are commodities, i.e. raw materials whose prices are determined on the free market. Asking now what the government is doing to reduce the price of feedingstuffs is like telling us to find some tens of billion dollars to buy hundreds of thousands of tons of feed and to check their price. I also imagine that you do not mean subsidisation of the price, because in this case I think we should say a little bit about the basics, that is, our country is a European Union, which operates as a single market and is contrary to Union legislation to price intervention. You know, too, that as a country we have paid dearly in the past. Of course, even if that possibility still existed, we have thought, in this Chamber, of what money are we talking about? Because it is reasonable that corn, for example, has a high-price record this year and those who buy it should be subsidised, with the same logic last year, possibly before, which we had a low price on corn, should be subsidised by those who produce it. I think, therefore, that it is wise for those who have a public say and we are doing it, to be careful about what we say, without that meaning that we do not feel the problem of farmers, who are indeed facing a question with feedingstuffs. According to ELSTAT's available figures, as well as the International Cereals Council, our country accounts for one millimeter of world production. Therefore, it is obviously not understood to be a debate about whether Greece can affect the world price of feed. I am saying this with full empathy because I come from a county with a strong livestock sector and with corn being one of our main crops. It is not enough time to say why we have this feed price explosion, I will simply say that it has something to do with China. In this international context, which forms a rational policy, a government, such as the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, is neither chasing chimes nor pluralizing. It is to act responsibly, to make useful policies and to support producers as efficiently as possible, in this respect farmers. So how can we support them? Giving them suitable tools to have the liquidity to meet the requested prices, the financial opportunity to make their purchases the best way and at the right time. So what did we do? From the start of the pandemic crisis, you know that we have supported the livestock sector with the EUR 30 million for sheep and goat farmers. For farmers as a whole, from the repayable advance, 50.4m euros have been paid, and for the first time in the years, Mr Villardos, we have enabled producers to obtain loans, grants and credits from the banking system up to EUR 25 000 without any insurance information. That's what happened last year. This year, with an amendment to the draft law on unfair practices, which goes into the next few days, we extend it until the end of 2021. However, it is also the money that our livestock farmers will receive next week, through the related aids, 6684,000 as linked to protein-related livestock refreshments, 25,256,000 as linked support to protein-related asdominant psychotics. And, of course, the sheep and beef sector will follow with 55 million and 35 million respectively. Two more points and I'm closing. The tax environment, Mr Colleague, is quite different for farmers than for the previous government, although we are living in an unprecedented pandemic economic crisis. Farmers do not pay a contribution of solidarity or a trade fee. The tax rate was reduced from 22% to 9% and a 1,000 euros were granted free of tax for each child. Insurance contributions have declined decisively and have been decoupled from income. Those who had lost traffic due to COVID will pay less than 50% of the advance, and finally we have introduced the irresponsible and tax-free of all this aid that was being granted in the middle of a pandemic. All these interventions, I think you will agree that it is not an inalienable injection of liquidity at all. Last but not least, I think that thanks to our policy in dealing with unfair practices, so-called Greekisations, the price of sheep and goat milk has increased significantly, which has actually triggered a virtuous production growth cycle since the previous stone years. And that's not what I say, the figures say, as in January 2021 the average price of sheep's milk was 91.68 according to ELGO figures, while the average of 2019 was 80 minutes. I think every goodwill - and you are well-off - shows the size of support. The rest in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Villard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, I do not think we are making any suggestions here, but we are answering questions as best we can and anyone can judge. The second is, of course, that it would be funny to talk about price control. You probably didn't understand. We have referred to Futures in which one is buying certain quantities, with certain specific prices, so that farmers can have normal low costs when prices are low. It's self-evident. As far as the subsidies are concerned, we are always completely against subsidies. We believe that the country must produce, be competitive and be able to cope with international markets as all other states do. Now, in the second part of our question, most of the feed is imported. That's what we think is bad. This substantiates the problems and the lack of a central strategy. That is what we are talking about, something that we constantly remind ourselves of, at every opportunity. Based on IOBE data, in the total category ‘food and feed industry residues’ we have a deficit of 358 million, while only the feed deficit is estimated at 230 million, mainly because of soybean. That's what we talked about. That's the one you had to buy. Incidentally, soybean is a product used for biofuel, and it is one of the problems of green growth and the green agenda. We must, of course, add that biofuels, where our country does not produce much, while nobody is interested in investing, unlike German wind turbines and everything else, are also produced from sugar beet. However, because of Community policies in the sugar sector and the memoranda with the partitioning of the Agricultural Bank, which belonged to the "Greek Sugar Industry", production in Greece has been virtually nullified, with the destruction of a one-stage productive sector. We want to support the productive sectors of sugar, where despite discussions about the future of the Greek Sugar Industry, there is no development, because DG COMP creates obstacles and threatens us with fines, according to our well-known pricing practice, such as the "TRAINOSE", the shipyards, the "Olympic" and now PPC. This is a matter that we are very carefully following. We have asked questions and we will not be extended here. However, we cannot fail to note that it is clearly a government failure, despite the arrogance and certainty of the Minister of Development in its solution to the privatisation it has promoted. So this year's reduced production of sugar beet was not used for sugar or biofuels, but even for feed, which, as I said, we absolutely need. According to information, the beet were left and rotted in the fields. Is it true? At the same time, according to various news, feed has been exported within the general unrest of the pandemic, which we do not know if it is true, although it seems to be reasonable, since food exports increased by 10% in December 2020. In any case, it is important to find a long-term solution, both for our industry and our economy, for food adequacy and for increasing domestic production. We note that the livestock sector was sinking into the crisis before the pandemic, while we are in deficit in meat. In particular, in 1980 Greece's self-sufficiency in pork had reached 85% and a mosquito at 66%, and today we import 70% of pork and 80% of beef. In the period 2015-2019, it is estimated that we had a trade deficit in meat species of approximately 1 billion annually, while only during the memorandum period, only from 2013 to 2017, we had huge reductions. For example, a hundred thousand less cattle, 15%, ninety thousand less pigs, 28% less, etc. As you can see, the issue of feedingstuffs is crucial for our livestock farming and our economy, because it could cause a chain reaction without the producers being blamed. Among other things, they must be given aid, such as the reduction of rents - we are not talking about subsidies - or subsidies, as, for example, the 'Aegean' - of this kind, subsidies - on motorways. Some aid is, of course, granted to the primary sector, just EUR 150 million, according to the seventh evaluation, but it is not enough, and in addition to all others, an end to agricultural diesel was imposed. Our questions here are as follows: firstly, how will you ensure a satisfactory supply of feed and domestic production and, secondly, how do you intend to strengthen livestock and food adequacy this year and in the immediate future? Please very much for a documented response, technocratic, not politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u79	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, you said that you as a party - that is absolutely respectable - do not believe in the importance of subsidies. We, of course, believe in the value of subsidies, because they are precisely the net of European producers against globalisation. This, of course, does not mean that we are resuming subsidies and that we are not strengthening the productivity of farmers and farmers. On the contrary, but this safety net, I think, is more than necessary - it is not this debate - when, for example, soybeans have been so precise, Mr Colleague, because of China's tropical imports. So, as you can see, one thing you say is contradicting the other one that appears to be a problem. We, my dear fellow Member, really believe as government in the importance of Greek livestock farming, because it is, in fact, a three-fold value of Greek production. Why? Because in fact 13% of farms that are livestock produce 31% of the average standard output value. And since we have come to the government, we have been implementing an integrated programme, as is perceived by the results it produces, and I have mentioned the prices of milk to you. We certainly have too much to do and we will do with the same heat and responsibility. We are starting a legislative initiative on unfair practices in the next few days. We have a good legislative initiative to solve a chronic problem of Greek livestock farming, which at last has to do with rationalising the authorisation for the establishment and operation of livestock establishments and the operating facilities. We are doubling, Mr Colleagues, and I think it is a very important development, to subsidise young farmers, as well as young farmers from the EUR 17 000 today, at EUR 35 000. It shows this the recent pre-publishment of the measure, the consultation of which has been closed. We're doing more real things. We, Mr President, in 2014, when we tabled our proposal for the Rural Development Programme, changed the policy mix that had been in place until then, always in favour of plant production and increased it to 75% -25%, actually showing that livestock should be strengthened. How is animal husbandry strengthened? It shall be supported by associated aid. You may not accept them, but the associated aids of the Greek protein bloomers, for example, show the mixed agricultural holdings, that is, the farmer who puts his speciality and his speciality, which is already subsidized, feeds his livestock. The strengthening of livestock farming and self-sufficiency, which is really the case - I shall say, of course, in order not to level it all, that our country is the first in ovine animals and third in sheep farming in the European Union - is carried out in a number of measures, and the Rural Development Programme which has run with what will run the transitional period of 2021-2022 of 2,25 billion. Of course, it is also being strengthened by what we have to do both from the Recovery Fund, which we are really pushing for livestock, whether it is for improvement plans or for genetic improvement. It is a series of measures that we have proposed as a Ministry for the aid of livestock and through measures which will now run in the transitional period, such as the preservation of organic farming and livestock, the improvement plans with support for farmers participating in the programmes. Mr Colleagues, it is also supported by the encouragement of reasoning. Because you realise that what is a doctrine of the government and of the Prime Minister personally is the encouragement of collectively sound shapes, which are not just words. The encouragement of healthy collective schemes was made by the relevant legislative initiative by the previous Minister, Mr Vorides, who encouraged, as you know, the creation of interbranch organisations. Honestly, the Ministry doesn't have time. One after the other, they make demands for the formation. And, of course, it is being strengthened by the creation throughout the country - and in the midst of the pandemic crisis - of many controversies of livestock cooperatives. So we believe too much in livestock farming and will do, through all the financial instruments we have in our capacity, the best we can to strengthen it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. We move on to the third with number 569/12-3-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Kalamata: The government refuses veterinary control in the floating hell of “ELBIC”. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Undersecretary, the ship of "ELBIMAK", this real floating hell, is now in Spain. When Greece was found in Greece, however, not only did Greece accept portrayal, it did not even agree to send veterinarians to check the animal condition. The European Commission and the European Parliament had intervened in you, in the Ministry's political leadership, on the issue, as fundamental principles of European welfare legislation are violated. I will note all five basic freedoms for animals growing under human control and in captivity. Freedom from hunger and thirst, with access to clean food and proper nutrition, freedom from poor living conditions, with proper accommodation for housing and rest, freedom from pain, pain and disease with proper diagnosis and proper care, freedom from fear and despair with the right behavior, without causing fear, etc., freedom to express the right behavior, with comfortable space, proper socialization etc. All five, by the way you managed it as government, are being violated. All you have done was send some food, after a lot of pressure from the European Commission and the European Parliament. You have never sent veterinarians, you have never put an end to, as you had to, this unthinkable thing, to the ship - torture, indeed, for these animals. And why is this all important? It is important for animal welfare that it is important because when you treat animals and nature, it is very reasonable to do all that you do to citizens. A man who thus treats other kinds of life obviously treats himself like this. I would therefore ask you to change your attitude as a whole. Look at the issue of animal welfare, change dramatically and be consistent with the principles you preach. Five freedoms are included in the bill you've got under the law anyway. Respect them now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. The Minister has the floor for her answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u84	Mr Colleague, do you know where the "ELBIC" ship is today?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u85	To Cartagena.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u86	It is therefore at its destination in Cartagena - because we are following the course of the ship - after three and a half months of wandering. This map shows the wandering of this ship, which started its destination from Spain in December with a country of mission in Libya to sell these seven hundred and seven hundred ninety bovine animals, which, obviously - and it is said - were not taken from the third country because it was suspected of foot-and-mouth disease. I shall say, therefore, that if the ELBINIK ship truck, this floating stable, is now where it should be in accordance with Union law, namely Spain and especially Karthage, it is because the Greek Government, Mr Colleague, has, since confronted it, acted with a plan, acted with foresight, with due respect for Union law, with particular sensitivity to the health and well-being of transported animals and with particular sensitivity to the welfare of the crew. At the same time, however, Mr Colleagues, he has acted very sensitively on the health and well-being of animals both in our country and in the European Union. The European authorities, therefore, will allow me to say, have been part of this solution to this incomplete wandering of this ship for almost three and a half months in the Mediterranean. And I explain why we were part of the solution. For the first time, Mr Colleagues, who, through the Ministry of Shipping, came the request from this ship - which, incidentally, was open to Crete - for an approach to the port of Piraeus, until 9 March, when the ship departed from the Greek territory, our guide was no other than national and EU legislation in conjunction with the demonstration of proper humanitarian behaviour. Mr President, on 5 March, following the transmission of this request by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs for the portability of the ship in Piraeus, where the ship was asked for food, feed and spare parts for the ship of 1967 and the Togo flag - I would stress this - in writing by the Directorate-General for Veterinary on the grounds of public interest, he asked that the ship should not be allowed to enter Greek territory. Did the Directorate-General and the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development do this by indifference? Of course not! On the contrary, we had to protect the health and well-being of the animals of the country and of the European Union in accordance with the precautionary principles, Mr Colleague. What should we protect it from? From the infectious diseases, such as the foot-and-mouth disease suspected of the burden, because three third countries - Egypt, Libya, Turkey - passed through which foot-and-mouth disease is endemic. As you should know, the European Union is financing with its programmes to ensure the internal public health of the Member States from four exotic diseases among which foot-and-mouth disease. And our country, just recently, Mr Colleague, regained the bet that it is free from foot-and-mouth disease affecting and destroying the country's livestock and, of course, all the farmers who make their bread from these animals. We did not allow the ship to be berthed in Piraeus, Mr. Colleague, because that is what Community legislation on the management of the cargo that has lost its Union character and is considered a third-country cargo. And this ship lost its Union character because it stayed for four days in Alexandria, Egypt, which is considered a third country. Therefore, Mr President, the ship had to return to the country of origin, namely Tarragona, Spain, in order to manage the animals - as you say - from the country of departure in accordance with the provisions of Regulation 2005 on the protection of animals during transport. In addition, in accordance with Union legislation, the readmission of consignments of animals rejected from a third country, namely, from Libya where they were going, is permitted only if they are carried out through approved border posts, in accordance with the Regulation of the European Commission 2019/2074 in order to carry out a clinical examination of the consignment, laboratory examination and management. Greece, Mr President, does not have such border inspection posts and I will explain why. Therefore, not only did we not demonstrate the ability to fulfil our European obligations as you are telling us, but care and responsibility. Why am I going to say something here, which is inaccurate in your question, that I personally, Mr President, informed the European Health Commissioner, Mrs Kyriakidou on the request of the ship concerned to come to the port of Piraeus, and the Commissioner knew that the ship was not coming to Greece on Friday evening, but that she was going back to Spain, as the regulation that I had invoked. And since then, Mr President, since we have taken ourselves to inform the European Commissioner, respecting all these principles which I have already spoken about, an operational team from the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, the Chief of the Port Authority and the representatives of DG SANTE, whom the Commissioner has indicated to us on Friday evening, we have been in excellent and continuous cooperation in order to manage this matter. The rest in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u87	You've already exceeded seven minutes. Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Undersecretary, your words are disproved by official documents. What you're telling us is being disproved by official documents. Good, I will tell you about the text of the European Parliament asking for information on whether you have carried out veterinary checks, if you have allowed him to enter the Greek port, in the context of well-being, not the protection of the European Union. Now, what you never told us is why you didn't even do veterinary checks. If the ship had that fever or anything else was in the livestock there, you might as well send veterinarians to check which animals are sick, to be killed - if they weren't healed - and to end the suffering of the rest of the animals. You didn't even do the elementary things. Do you want to tell us that the European Commission also covers you in what you have done, when there is an upsurge in the pro-zootic movement towards Greece's attitude? And you know that, I imagine, you have received letters of this kind. You have never answered us because there is no - and I expect to hear in your dentistry - a border inspection post in Greece for livestock. Is the way that you operated the five freedoms for animals in captivity and animals used in animal production? Are there any of these five principles in the legislature? Are they invaded? Is there a complete inconsistency on your part in what you preach and what you do? Are the declarations real? What's the truth? What you did in practice or what you preach through your new bill? I will still repeat these specific freedoms. Freedom from hunger and thirst. After pressure you sent food. Freedom from poor living conditions. It was clearly not observed that these eighty-seven cattle were in a boat for more than three months. Freedom from pain, pain and disease, with proper diagnosis and proper care. You have clearly not complied with them. Freedom from fear and despair. There is clearly also no incarceration in such an inappropriate environment. Freedom to express a good attitude, an area of socialization, etc. He's clearly invaded. So who are you? Are you the government of the act that he made against this ship or the Government of Declarations in your new bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u89	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I would ask you to operate in the Minutes what you claim you have in your hands and where it comes from, because the ones I have referred to in my prototype are on the basis of the regulations. The ship - I repeat - had to go back to the country where it started, to Spain. That is what EU law says. The ship to check, as you say, the clinical examination, laboratory examination, etc., in order to manage the consignment of a third country, as 'ELBEMAK', had to be carried out by organised border inspection posts. The country does not have such stations. The country has contacted home with the European Commissioner, calling for her cooperation in the context of respect for all that I have invoked, namely, the regulatory framework, national and Union, the demonstration of adequate humanitarian behaviour for the welfare of animals and crew. Our country has shown reflexively, on the basis of the few data it has admittedly had in its hands, and operational readiness, without leaving the ship from its eyes, since it was in international waters, close to - let us say - to Milos where it was. And our country has rushed to satisfy every request made by the ship. The ship on Friday night was open in international waters of Milos. He asked for three things on the ship at 21.43 in particular. I have all the documents at my disposal. He asked for fuel supply in the Fine Ports of Crete, Opera and was injected into an anchorage outside the Fine Ports. He asked for the crew, water and feed for live in the port of Kalamata, which was carried out on anchorages outside Kalamata, with the excellent cooperation of veterinarians there under the supervision of the Directorate-General for Veterinary Affairs of our Ministry, with the consultation of the European Commission's Directorate-General for Health - I told you that the Commissioner-General for Human Rights, with whom we had to speak - and, of course, with the excellent cooperation of the political leadership of our Ministry of Shipping and, of course, with the Head of the Port Body, has indicated to us. Whatever the ship has asked for, it has been organised and immediately taken, Mr Colleague, and today I am very pleased that the ship is finally in place, as the Union law requires, in the country from which it departed, namely Cartagena, Spain. And the ship at 21.43' on 5 March said to us: 'Give us food, water and feed to go where we want, namely, to Cartagena, Spain'. So, why do you give up on us? I don't really understand. Now for what you say that our pro-zootic organisations are urging, and so on, I know, Mr President, that the international non-governmental philosophical organisations, which have been closely following this issue and have been informed by the relevant Ministry of Defence, have recognised the correctness of these operations and in posting them on its Eurogroup for Animals website - I have it here - Mr President, a major international authority - I imagine that you do not question it because you are following them - it is a matter of a direct reaction and a contribution from our country to the relief of animal suffering. I shall put it in the Minutes, as I shall also say, that in relation to the questions you ask, our country, as you know, Mr Colleague, on animal welfare issues and on issues of good transport, is not a precursor to developments in the European Commission, but it combines this framework, which will be created by 2023 and is actively involved. In fact, in groups that have been set up, our country has the privilege of preside over some of them, the important ones, to preside over them. Therefore, with a lot of responsibility and thought, it puts forward its proposals and operates on the basis of the protection of the health and welfare of animals, but also on the basis of national interests, of course, as far as transport is concerned. I should like to close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance, and I would like to thank you for the SIPS border posts. In order not to be considered as having a PWN because, possibly, we are a third-world country, I want to unleash this. According to my colleague, with the commercial reality, which has been established at least over the last few decades, our country is consciously not importing animals from third countries, because it is precisely seeking to support domestic animal production and, consequently, there is neither a duty nor a need to approve and operate a border inspection post that accepts live animals from third countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u92	I would like to make a statement, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u93	Check whatever you want. The Minister was very clear in all the answers. We all get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u94	I'm filing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u95	We are moving on to the next two and last questions to which the Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Besiropoulos, will answer. The first is the second with number 556/11-32021 in the second time, a topical question by the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Home and necessary the concession of the port areas and the Venetian Port to self-government". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, as you know, by Law 4597/2019 against the Government of SYRIZA and by Law 4664/2020 on the Government of New Democracy the concession of the ten ports of the country, including the port of Heraklion, has been promoted and promoted. I am clear that we have not supported these laws, not because we do not believe in partnership and cooperation between the public and private sectors, but because of the way in which the keys to the whole development are actually granted, in relation to ports. We believe that there are different ways in which rules, transparency and safeguards exist, so that the general public interest can be served, and in this context, there can also be local and social benefits. Regarding the port of Heraklion, we have to say that there are peculiarities, as in the wider area of the port there is the historic Venetian port, which is next to Fort Koules and Neoria, which, of course, have been excluded from the concession because they are archaeological monuments and which, with a certain mobilisation, have been exempted from the concession to the excess. The question I am asking has two aspects to the Ministry of Finance and is the result of the operators' mobilisations, which are active in relation to sports, maritime clubs and, of course, local government has raised the issue. It concerns not just the exclusion of the historical Venetian port and its zone from the concession, but this request that the port should be managed by local government and that it should be different from the commercial port, whose law I mentioned promotes the concession. The relevant question is what is going on with the corresponding zones not only in the port but from the Linoperama to Alikarnassos, which relate to the Municipality of Malevizi and the Municipality of Heraklion, and the request for the concession of land areas to the municipalities in order to integrate them into the wider local development promoted by both municipalities and the region. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, too. Minister, Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I understand your sensitivity and concern. As regards the substance and content of your question, I would like to inform you of the following: There is an institutional and legislative framework for the issue of the granting of land zones. According to this, the limit, land use and land regeneration plan shall be determined by a decision of the port management and exploitation body concerned. In this case this body is the Port Authority of Heraklion S.A. According to the 30-1-2003 concession contract signed between the Port Authority of Heraklion and the Greek State and the decision No 3413/17-1-2001 by the Ministry of Trade Shipping, the Port Authority of Heraklion has the exclusive right to use and exploit the land, buildings and facilities of the port area of Heraklion. Within the terrestrial zone of the Port Authority of Heraklion there are many declared archaeological monuments and sites, which are protected by the Ministry of Culture. The Venetian Fortress, in fact, is a visiting monument, where the entrance is made by a ticket managed by the Ministry of Culture. I stress that in the Venetian Port area, which is a single monumental complex, it includes the harbor and bottom, the prose and a leaf, the Venetian Fortress and the complexes of the eastern and western young, tanks and warehouses with the ancient dock. The Ministry of Culture has had and still has the management as a monument to the Venetian Fortress, and it is self-evident that in characterized archaeological sites the position of the Ministry of Culture is taken into account. As I told you, however, this government is fully aware of the size and value of our national heritage and monuments in our history. More I'll tell you in my denture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it must be made clear that in relation to the Fortress of Dolls and young people there is already the decision or have been excluded. And what I'm asking for is a step forward in relation to the Venetian Port and its management on the one hand. The debate you had on Friday by teleconferencing with the port administration on the occasion and the timely question, in order to reply to the House, I think it is in the right direction. I am referring to the debate that was made public that you had a teleconferencing conference with the port administration on Friday. I think it's in the right direction. However, we must not only stop there and not be granted with all the facilities, as is foreseen or what is to be done in any case, but we must also move on to the next phase to see the management of the Venetian Port by local government. Why am I saying it? Activities within the Venetian Port have nothing to do with the activities at the commercial, which is a transit centre where ferry transport is served. The Venetian Port serves activities related to shipping mainly, but also some activities related to amateur fishing or possibly professional fishing. It does not extend to commercial activities. So there could be this step that would give more value to the Venetian Port. I think that the City Council's decision last week is in this direction, and the Ministry should respond to the request and the proposal that has been tabled, a proposal which I have supported in a documentary manner and which I think should not be contrary to the government. That's the one. There is at the Venetian Port next to the small area - which must also be allocated to the municipality - the marina and a facility that is mildly tourist development. I think that more than thirty-five years - maybe even longer - is managed by the municipality. Look at this step! As far as the second question concerning land areas is concerned, I must tell you that unfortunately their integration into the management of the port is a pretext for development in the area, that is to say, far from the activities of the port, there is a terrestrial area that belongs to the administration of the port. The port administration has no business in that area to decide on development. It's the Municipality of Maleviu that has all responsibility and command from the citizens. We also need political will on the part of the government. It's not a question of port administration. If you ask them, they'll agree. It is no longer possible in 2021, with the development initiatives that we need to take and because of the pandemic, as the local development pandemic suggests, to involve a company which, in the commercial piece, well has the power to move forward in whatever way the government and the government itself judges in a port. But what is he doing in the land port area in Ammoudara? That was historical. There was a zone that had been granted there and served a hundred years ago and the way the port was built. A train had been created, the inert materials were coming through the train, and the whole area belonged to the port. Since then, the years have passed, the decades have passed, and now we are facing new challenges. There is a precedent for the zones to be allocated. The government promised to see the municipality's request in relation to Heraklion. So let us also see the request from the Municipality of Malevizio, because it is an act that will bring growth, create jobs, and eventually create something better than the inertia that exists today. Only inertia and stumblings bring about the persistence of this area in the administration of the port of Heraklion. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Comrade, as you know, the total shares of the Port Authority of Heraklion has been transferred to the TEAD since 2012, which is now a subsidiary of the UFO. Any form of development or exploitation of the assets of the SWR shall be made in accordance with the applicable legislation and restrictions it imposes. It is assumed that, for the Venetian port, once the wider region is part of the archaeological site, any use of the area will be made as a result of the agreement of the Ministry of Culture. Besides, the TIADED has requested the exclusion of the Venetian Port of Heraklion from the concession procedure of the port of Heraklion, which is understood to be self-evident. Also, there are archaeological findings in the Linopera area, as well as indications of the existence of port facilities in the Minoan period. This means that any action in these areas requires the control and, above all, the authorisation of the Ministry of Culture. Therefore, given the specific conditions under which the Venetian Port of Heraklion and the other archaeological sites are exploited. For this reason, the existence of a three-way programming contract between the Port Authority of Heraklion, the Ministry of Culture and the Municipality of Heraklion for their exploitation, as well as the financing of maintenance and promotion of sites and monuments is considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Minister. We continue with Heraklion Crete and with the last for today, the third with number 3911/4-2-2021 question of the cycle of petitions - questions by the MP of Heraklion, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambos (Charis) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Timely extension of the benefit of the netting of an amount equal to 25% of the debts to tax administration paid in time". Here, Mr Mamulakis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. I take this opportunity, of course, following the question by my colleague and constituent, Vassilis Kegeroglou, on behalf of the KINAL, to put something further before entering into the substance of the question. Minister, it is indeed a demand that is fully, overall and definitively heard by local society. The procedures must be speeded up in such a way that this very important area of the land area is granted to the Municipality of Heraklion, on the one hand, as regards its administrative part and, on the other hand, to the Municipality of Maleviziou, because it is really absurd that such a large extent is divided between the port and the region of Linopera, and therefore the archaeological and not just historical importance of the area. These are landfill points, they are platforms and port facilities which have existed for years and must at last be attributed to the citizens of the region. This effort was launched by the previous government with legislative moves. In fact, the universal demand for people is being mourned. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I close before entering the question, with a reminder, Minister. It closes eight months before the EIB loan contract with the case of Kastelion airport and the airport of Nikos Kazantzakis. Eight months now, and we still do not have the slightest picture of the loan contract and its content and its accessories. The question now is clear: The consequences of the pandemic at economic level have led the government to take a number of measures to support the firms affected and, of course, natural persons. At the same time, you had to reduce the budgetary consequences of taking measures and raising the revenues of the state budget. Thus, you have decided to provide the debtors with the benefit of compensation of 25% of their debts. However, this favourable regulation, Minister, was of a temporary nature in contrast to the economic consequences of the pandemic. In particular, you have provided those undertakings that have been affected, but have fully and in good time by 30 April 2020 their debts from VAT in the first quarter or third month of 2020, the benefit of the netting of an amount equal to 25% of the debt paid to the tax administration, which had end dates of payment after 1 May 2020. In addition, you extended the 25% discount for those enterprises and natural persons who paid instalments of certified debts and instalments of instalments or payment facilities with a payment date within the days of May and June 2020, which are extended by the decisions referred to in paragraph 2 and Article 2 of the 11-20 known act of law. The deduction of 25%, however, also applied to debts paid between 11 and 21 March 2020 and was effected through a netting of an amount equal to the amount of the discount with other accredited debts or instalments of payment arrangements or facilities to the tax administration, which had final dates after 1 June 2020. We have therefore taken into account the transient nature of the above arrangements and measures, as they do not, Mr Minister, take the time period from the beginning of its pandemic and adverse economic effects in the country to this day. In other words, we have almost twelve months, a year - and not an economic year - of this crisis, while the measures taken by you, on the part of the Government, do not fully cover this period. Hence the question: In view of the fact that the world of entrepreneurship and natural persons are still experiencing the economic consequences of the crisis today, and given that the consequent debtors, Minister, should continue to be charged, since, in spite of all financial difficulties, they are in the process of paying their debts, setting as a priority the guarantee of public revenues, the question is clear: Do you intend to extend the benefit of the discount for those who have paid their debts for the time being, in order to occupy the entire period from the start of measures to limit the spread of the pandemic in our country to this day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Mamulaki. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague, since the beginning of the pandemic, the government has been acting targeted. All the measures we have taken and continue to take are aimed at supporting businesses and workers, affected sectors and vulnerable social groups. Measures have been taken to suspend tax and insurance debts, a new framework of debt arrangements has been established, and we have given a second chance to those who have not been able to respond to the regulation of a hundred or a hundred or twenty instalments or an out-of-court mechanism. At the same time there have been tax relief measures and tax burden reductions. Article 1 of the legislative act of 30-32020, which was ratified by Article 1 of Law No.4684/2020, supplemented Article 2 of the legislative act by 11-320 and provided for for for the natural and legal persons affected by the pandemic the provision of a 25% discount in pre-paid instalments established to tax administration or instalments of instalments. This benefit lasted from March to June and exempted from its scope only the debts arising from VAT and withholding taxes which were not included in a scheme and from the recovery of State aid to debts for a foreign State. The third article of the legislative act of 13.4.2020, which was ratified by Article 1 of Law No4690/2020, supplemented by an act of law of 11-32020. In particular, a full repayment of the total amount of the debt incurred by the undertakings affected by the first quarter of 2020 VAT declarations was foreseen for those liable to keep simple books and for the third month of 2020 for those in receipt of a bibliographical book benefiting from a netting of 25% of the debt paid with other certified debts or set-offs with a date of payment after 1 May 2020. All these measures, Mr Colleague, are linked to measurable results for which I will inform you in my denunciation. There are benefits of these arrangements. Natural persons, professionals, businesses. For all of this, but also for the question you have raised, I will answer my second question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Minister. Mr Mamulakis has the floor for his denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I understand that the government's efforts were directed towards strengthening the affected enterprises and natural persons, which were clearly affected by the pandemic crisis. However, the main core of reasoning and philosophy governing this support from your side was the logic of suspending many accumulated obligations in the future. And what you can understand is that it creates an additional problem in its own financial management on the government's side. Minister, you will be aware that the extensions and suspensions of the total amount of debt are a time-lag between the economic problems faced by businesses and the workers. With the measures you take, taxpayers' debts are actually cumulated. They are not essential reinforcement of the affected. You will have to regulate debts with a cut in the basic debt. However, I asked you a very specific question. The logic of my question is whether there is in your understanding the concept of rewarding those who actually and in time respect their obligations. And that's very important. It is about the very tax and tax culture of the Greek citizen that the reward will strengthen it, and I would say that it will create another important element that will act as a board of salvation in the problem, as I understand and perceive the whole world, a fiscal slogan in which we enter. This is very important to us, and I would really like a clear answer, Mr Minister, from you, a clear answer which will essentially come to put the question that I put to you at the preamble. In other words, this display of a high sense of fiscal consciousness under the present circumstances you realize that it is not negligible. So will you proceed? Will you accept this view, which I personally do not hide from you that I consider to be crucial to the country's financial future? You will embrace the view and you will reward all our fellow citizens who, despite this crisis, despite all the effects on the winter businesses, but also on individual businesses and natural persons, as they are called, fulfil the obligations, why do they not want to accumulate additional debts, as this is a process that is taking place on your part? So will there be a reward for these citizens? I was brief, Mr President, because I abused your time in my prototype. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Mamulaki, too. Now the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, dealing with the consequences of the pandemic is not a static process. It's evolving, it's constantly updated. The new data force us to extend the power and renew the kind and scope of support measures we are announcing, depending on the course of the pandemic and the impact that it has on economic activity. That is what we did with the measure of cutting rents. It was originally set up for one month, however, needs required the extension of its validity. We started with 40% of the rent reduction for those affected and for the first quarter of 2021 we introduced the 100% tax exemption for those directly affected by the pandemic. There was also a corresponding escalation of support measures for the property owners. The same linear procedure for extending the benefit support measures also applied to the extent that 25% of the debt is offset. It started in March 2020 and gradually extended until June 2020. I told you before that there are benefits from this measure, there are measurable sizes. Applications for a set-off of 25% of the full VAT paid were submitted to the DUs. The amounts that have been netted with debts which have become due since 1 May 2020 are particularly high, amount to EUR 150 million and are broken down as follows: EUR 105,89 million relate to debit VAT declarations via the internet, EUR 16,48 million concerns legal income tax declarations, EUR 10,08 million concerns employees' tax, EUR 5,14 million relates to personal income tax, EUR 2,94 million relates to arrangements under L4152/2013, EUR 2,78 million concerns HPAI, EUR 1,84 million concerns amendments to the fixed regulations of L4152/2013, on the basis of n. EUR 4646/2019, EUR 1,39 million concerns remuneration from business activity. The remaining amounts of netting shall be broken down into other categories of debt or instalments of settlement or partial payment facilities to taxi. There was therefore a large and significant number of natural persons, professionals and businesses who used this beneficial regulation. From there on, we weigh all the data and if they impose such interventions in future, you can be sure that there will be one. The government has taken and will continue to take what is necessary within the country's budgetary resilience to support those affected by the consequences of the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u111	Thank you too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-19-S1-commons.u112	With the agreement of the House at 12.43 p.m., the sitting on Monday, March 22, 2021, at 12 noon, on the subject of Parliament's work, is closed: a topical and urgent debate.
