ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 8-7-2021, PR's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, on Thursday, July 8, 2021, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "Prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing - Amendment of Mr. Incorporation of Directive (EU) 2018/1673 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the fight against money laundering through criminal law and provisions on speeding up the administration of justice’]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Before we move on to the agenda for today's topical and urgent debate report, let me first inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Monday 12 July 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 915/2-7-2021, a topical question by MP II of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Tryphoon Alexiadis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Government is delaying the operation of the new Centre for Health of Keratsini and does not make permanent recruitments of medical and nursing staff". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 909/28-6-2021 by MP B2' Western Sector Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Security of the planned timetables for the dismantling of the High Voltage Airways in the Municipality of Aigaleo and their replacement with high-voltage underground cables’. 3. Question No 910/29-6-2021 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "The seafront of Thesprotia: in addition to the port facilities, the beaches are sold". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 916/2-7-2021 by SYRIZA MP Laconia - Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, entitled "The Need for Support for the Corinthian Grass". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 913/1-7-2021 by MP Halkidiki of the Change Movement Mr.Astalos Pana to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Integration of the green olive of Halkidiki in the exceptional compensation for ice-cream." 3. The Question No 914/1-7-2021 by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Conversion of the University General Hospital of P.G.N. "ATTICN" in public-private PPP. 4. The question by Mr Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In any case, the Ministry of Health's lack of control mechanisms in private sector health services." 5. The question by No 921/5-7-2021 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "A solution to recognition of legacys from the Land Register". 6. The question under number 917/2-7-2021 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct correction of school writings distributing malicious and unscientific words". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under No 925-7-2021, the topical question by SYRIZA MP Heraklion - Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambos (Hari) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "What will be the form of exploiting the area of the airport "Nikos Kazantzakis" in Heraklion Crete? 8. The question by number 922-5-7-2021 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "A solution for recognition of legacy from the Register". 9. The question under number 927-7-7-2021 by MP B1' North Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Amendment to the orchestra "Camerata - Orchestra of Friends of Music". 10. The question under number 928/7-201 by MP Florina of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Financing for transition to lignite areas and allocation of resources". 11. The question under number 923/5-7-2021 of the Member of Parliament Argolidas of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Weakness of the paediatric section of the Argos Hospital". 12. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: 'Recording of the damage caused by high temperatures in agricultural crops and direct support measures for producers'. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question by No 929/7-2021 of the Member of Parliament of the Ilias of Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Big and this year's income reduction for the farmers of Elias." Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the topical and urgent question report for today. The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Mr Koutnatzis informs the House that the topical and urgent questions to be discussed are as follows: Question No 6363/29-4-2021 (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Mr Stylianos Petsa. Question No 912/1-7-2021 will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Eleftherios Economou. We begin with the debate of the first under number 6363/29-4-2021 question of the circle of petitions and questions by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Socrates Famelou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Photos commissions and financing overlaps are undercover in the invitation to "Coloured Biowave Collection, Recycling Awards and Waste Transmission Stations of the "Antonis Tritsis" programme and lead to scandalous loss of public resources and failure of recycling in Greece". Mr. Famelle, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, taking advantage of your presence here and my term of office for twelve years in self-government, I must tell you that yesterday's announcement of three municipalities in Thessaloniki, the area from which I come, the Municipalities of Thermi, Delta and Volvia, who question the publicized evidence of the course of vaccination in our country. I am telling you this so that you too can be aware, because I am particularly surprised that at such a critical moment for the country, the government is not talking to the municipalities, the municipalities are not aware of the vaccination programme, you do not have the right information on the progress of the vaccination programme, and you can understand that it is multiplying unreliableness and fear in Greek society. It is not possible at such a critical moment to prove that the government is so behind the needs and not even talking to the municipalities. I think you have other priorities. You probably know that your priorities are to guide and squeeze the media or to feed scandals, such as what the current question refers to because, Minister, we have returned to this debate on a subject that is also involving the Ministry of Interior under the responsibility of the political leadership for a 'photographic' scandal of notices for recycling equipment, but also for a waste of public money, since you choose and continue to choose the previous political leadership, and you have to fund equipment that must be financed and provided free of charge to the municipalities by alternative management systems. But you also lead to a waste of public resources and a delay in recycling, which for two years is tragic, since the municipalities - and you know it very well - do not receive recycling equipment and we are very far behind the targets. This is the third question we ask you. We had asked such a question in November and January. We discussed one together as timely in April, but you continue after the revisions that you have made - three or four, if I am not mistaken, one concerns the technical item - to include in the tender equipment that the systems must provide to the municipalities. What are you doing? Although they collect the systems from the citizens and industry and they must give our society recycling equipment, you from the back door with "Antonis Tritsis" money, with public money, that is, you finance them by leading to illegal enrichment and waste of public resources. At the same time you photograph in the notice the equipment that is specific companies by restricting competition. So you are also violating the rules of competition and the possibility of Greek industry and trade in Greece to produce, compete. Lead the municipalities to unimportant co-operation with systems. So, unfortunately, you still include after our own intervention equipment of the ESA, the "Recycling Recycling", the "Recycling Devices" system, and you even include an economic tool in the notice, which leads the municipalities to cooperate only with one system. In other words, you tell them to take photographic specific equipment, which the systems are obliged to give for free and to apply an economic tool that only one system has this capacity to do. So you photograph and limit competition and the market by creating a closed circuit. You waste public resources for such a closed circuit. We're telling you this. There are municipalities such as the Municipality of Piraeus, which operate another system of price. You will ban one municipality from applying a recycling system because you have agreed to supply another. These, as you can see, are unacceptable on the substance and even when the one system whose equipment you are promoting has a negative recommendation from the recycling services. Minister, officially the services have submitted to the EOAN Council that this equipment does not deliver the recycling required by our country. So you're wasting resources and doing photographic proclamations and the equipment you're pushing the municipalities to get are equipment that doesn't work in our country. All this as you understand is a tragic development in recycling. The Ministry of Interior cannot continue to feed scandals, photographic proclamations and waste of public resources. We're asking you quite simply, then. With all our publicised contributions, will you modify these invitations? Will you stop the photographic proclamations? Will you really support the municipalities and recycling? Or will you ignore the real problems of the municipalities as you seem to be doing on pandemic issues? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Famelos also raised another issue concerning Greek society. I'll take some more time, and if I have to limit my dentistry, if I may. The issue raised by Mr Famellos is the vaccination programme and, in particular, our aim of speeding up the vaccination programme in different regions of the country, which is seen to be below the national average by the Ministry of Health. Indeed, Mr Famelle, the denominator takes into account the 2011 census at municipal level. Ten years after the 2011 census, 2021 makes sense, since we are in a year of census, that there should be changes to the denominator as regards the inhabitants of each municipality. I am aware of the issues you have raised and of Thermi from the mayor of which I received a letter and from other municipalities in Thessaloniki, and that is why I shall visit myself on the 14th of the month following next week, the area, to speak with the mayors, because our purpose is not to show anyone with the finger. Our aim is to see how we increase the absolute number of vaccinations. Because at every municipality level there are still fellow citizens who have not taken the vaccine or have not scheduled their date for their vaccination. So we go there in synergy with mayors and municipal councils, in constant contact with people who can influence local public opinion, from the Church to commercial clubs and from cultural clubs to medical clubs, to increase the rate of vaccination. I shall now proceed, Mr President. It is an issue that we have discussed in the past, as Mr Famelos said. I am given the opportunity to reiterate the purpose of the 4 invitation to the "Antonis Tritsis" programme entitled "Subscribing biowaste collection. Recycling angles and waste transhipment stations and to make it clear that no overlap lies in the invitation and equipment provided by alternative management systems. In short, photographic provisions do not exist. It's been heard about distortion of competition. He doesn't exist either. Given that there is agreement of the JRC, the Central Unit of State Aid, which had delivered an opinion on the invitation, the photographic supplies, as you say, Mr Famele, do not in any case characterise the actions of the invitation aimed at improving the management of solid waste and strengthening the municipalities in this area. I'll explain the reasons immediately. First of all, the purpose of the invitation is to strengthen the municipalities of the country in the field of recycling. The Ministry of Interior has, according to its responsibilities and as set out in the National Waste Management Plan, undertaken to strengthen the work of the municipalities. Our aim is to achieve the ambitious objectives set out in the revised ECHR and Union legislation, and that is what we need to help. As you know, now that the recycling targets are not met by the municipalities will result in excessive charges, which will eventually be moved to the public. More than ever, we must use every available tool to help the municipalities to achieve the recycling targets imposed on them. With regard to alternative management systems, the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the National Recycling Agency and its role in this call, let us clarify some things. Firstly, as I have mentioned in the past, and the initial invitation, but also the second amendment, are without prejudice to the provisions of the ETS and the legislation in general governing recycling. For example, I mention point 28 of the preamble to the second amendment to the invitation, which refers to Law 4496/2017, which of course you know very well, which provides that when organising the alternative management of municipal waste-packaging is carried out by ATOs I grade, the approval of the alternative management plan by the EEAN is required. Secondly, the Special Management and Implementation Agency of the Ministry of the Interior, wishing to be in direct cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment and Energy and the Recycling Agency, submitted a request to the EEAN for an opinion on the draft of the second amendment to the invitation in order to enable it to express its views on the compatibility of the terms of the call with the legal framework. In fact, since it obviously checked the content of the invitation, EEAN provided its assent to the invitation in its 9-4-2021 decision. I will also repeat, in order that there is no question, that the EEW is called upon to decide on the compatibility of the proposal of each municipality, which will ultimately, when it becomes part of the programme with the legislation of the EEW, the EEW will judge whether there is overlapping and, of course, the project will be rejected. The same will happen with regard to any other parameter concerning the specific recycling legislation and for which the EEW is responsible for control and supervision. You asked me what stage this would be. It's one of the questions you have inside your document. I am making it clear that this assessment, in particular with regard to alternative management plans, will be carried out before the project is auctioned, that is, at the appropriate time. This, apart from the fact that it is imposed by legislation, will be ensured by means of a special condition in the decisions to integrate the projects. After all, the question you raise about an obligation of only a small percentage of municipalities to obtain the prior approval of the EEAN, because the rest of them have already been made with a TEN, is a false copy. As you know very well, the TENs are in the EOAN microscope, so in any version who takes over what if there is any overlap, apparently controlled, and you can be certain that it will be in-depthly controlled. We have the proper tools to defend the public interest and we will. I would also like to stress that the EEW is governed by specific analytical legislation, which will be implemented at the time of adoption of the alternative management plans for municipal waste packaging and therefore any indication of any further supporting documents in the invitation to the Antonis Tritsis programme evade the competences of the Ministry of Interior. In other words, the audit and supervision carried out by EEAN at all stages of the alternative management of municipal waste - packaging is not bypassed by any provision of the invitation and we are convinced that any alternative municipal management plan, which will eventually be integrated into the programme, will be audited as provided for in the law. Our cooperation with the EEW is continuing and will be intimate. Finally, Mr Famele, you requested some information on which municipalities have submitted an operational plan for approval to the EEAN. I say that the proposals of the municipalities in the context of the invitation have not yet been evaluated by the EESC, so I am not in a position to know information about the content of the proposals submitted. However, as the process of evaluating and integrating the proposals in the programme is absolutely transparent, I will provide you with any information requested in the future, as soon as it becomes available. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, the first issue must indeed be closed - although it is very critical, you can understand - that is, the issue of the vaccination programme. We say in public that citizens should not monitor the government's unreliability, but speed up the vaccination programme. I have to tell you that it is tragic that the Minister responsible for the municipalities in Parliament should announce that he is going to meet the municipalities with whom the political leadership had to meet for a year and a half - because you have received them in the last six months - to work with the vaccination programme. So since it was revealed that the evidence was not true and was created so big a dome in local communities, is it now going to start working with the municipalities? This and the accuracy of the evidence is a serious element in the process before us, namely the great battle, the battle of life and health. And it seems that you do not have the right to do so, because your basic political starting point, your position, which is cooperation with municipalities as a core cell next to the citizen of our administration and operation, has not followed it. But let's go on to the subject we have here today. In any case, we say this here, Mr Petsa, to point out what you need to do, because not all of this is done, because these programmes and self-government in the vaccination programme are crucial. As you said, Minister, the recycling programme and the functions and terms of the review programme that you have made include the terms of Law 4496. You know I was the rapporteur for this law. So I am clearly telling you that it is hypocritical that you are saying this in the Greek Parliament today. You ask the municipalities to join the programme to approve an alternative management plan. But, Minister, the majority of municipalities, not to say 100% of our country, cooperate with alternative management systems, which you have also mentioned, and in this case do not have to make alternative management plans. So, did you make it as a condition to do something that they shouldn't do? Is that possible? Do you know the law? Because, as I told you, I was the rapporteur, it was not the municipalities that submitted an alternative management plan when they collaborate with systems, because the systems submit a plan and an operational plan at country level. So you put something as a term that won't happen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Second matter. Did you say that this plan will be assessed in advance? But I shall table here the document of the Hellenic Recycling Agency which says that it will be assessed ex post and I say it specifically. You referred to the decision. You said that at its meeting of 9-4-2021. I will read it to you, Minister, because you probably do not know your partners to give the exact information: 'the EEW reserves the right to express its views on the creation of'recycling angles'. And how else, since these corners are in the operational system plan? So he's on hold. That's what the board of directors tells the board of directors. It also says that 'it is understood' - assumes that EEAN - 'that potential ETA beneficiaries are required at a later stage to submit a plan'. So will the millions of the Tribute Programme be taken, and the EEAN writes in his report that they will be controlled at a later stage? Mr President, I will put it in the Minutes because you understand that it is very essential. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, firstly, you have set, as a condition that the TAs will not do, because they do not make alternative management plans based on Law 4496 when they have cooperation with TAs and, secondly, that the EOAN has put in next year. But they won't do that, because they're working with a TEN. And that's the main issue, that you're photographing local systems equipment and therefore they don't have to make a plan. And you tell them to make a plan? But he's not in the law. Will you change him to Law 4496? So because the Ministry of the Environment is about to change it and you know that we are waiting for the signatures of your Ministry to come to the House - it has been announced at the Conference of Presidents - I tell you that this bill abolishes the alternative management plan, which you say will be a condition of funding. So, do you have any understanding within the government? Are you telling us that it will be a condition for the adoption of a project that the municipalities do not have to submit, which the new political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment now says will abolish and change the role of the EEAN? Here, then, is confirmed, Minister, so far from her answer today, that there is a plan to manipulate supplies photographically with a waste of public resources, because you are asking for things that will not be done. And in later years he says it...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u7	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've been in five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u8	So I want you to tell us this. How will the municipalities be controlled if they are not required to submit an alternative management plan? How will it be when they have already been applied for TEN equipment? Because you told me that the municipalities that have been submitted will be checked, and I ask you what the political will is and what a change in the invitation you are going to make now. There are municipalities that have already submitted applications and within the applications include TEN equipment. Six of us found it. So I ask you - and in the question in writing - what are you going to do for those who have already applied? Will you now ask them to go on an alternative management plan, which they do not have to go to the EEAN, who says will check it out afterward? Also, Minister, you should know that for such photographic supplies the Court of Auditors has already decided to cancel one third of the tender of 100 million that the Attica Region, EDNA and ok. Patolis was preparing for Athens and canceling the option of more than 100m euros. So a corresponding scandal and a photographic proclamation for the same equipment has already been revealed and you have been exposed as the head of the EDN.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u9	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've been in six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u10	So what do you have to say, Minister? Are there finally photographic statements being made elsewhere and the Court of Auditors being cancelled, and are you preparing another manipulation of supplies at the expense of both municipalities and recycling? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u12	First of all, Mr Famele, on the subject of vaccination, it is a very serious issue to make a micro-policy. What do you mean? Shouldn't we speed up a vaccination program?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u13	I had to, like, a long time ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u14	Have you seen the evidence in Europe?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u15	You had to work with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Femelle, I didn't interrupt you when you were talking. If you want you can see the evidence of vaccination around the world. Greece has a very successful vaccination programme. This does not mean that we will sit with our hands crossed and look at different speeds on the ground. We want to speed it up where we see a lower turnout. We will make use of summer time to do so in the autumn that we have much higher vaccination rates and build the multi-poored wall of immunity. If you're accusing us of this, I accept it. If you want to say something different, that we are not working with the municipalities, I would refer you already to the first legislative acts in March 2020, to see what we have done as a government and as a Ministry of the Interior in particular, so that we can help the municipalities and suspend municipal fees for closed shops, and to be able to stand up with exceptional financing, and to be able to regulate the debts created during the koronia period that were closed and have no revenue, and so that they can alleviate their citizens who had much lower incomes. You also know very well that with the 'Blue Freedom' programme we also have the possibility of universal vaccination on the islands. Is that where it happened? Didn't it happen in cooperation with the municipalities? Or don't you know we're an island country? As for the mainland, yes, we will go to the most remote villages, where there are age or geographical specialities, to convince. We're allies. We're rings in the same chain. We don't move a finger to anyone, but the result will be brought. As far as recycling is concerned, what do you think? Are you in favour of recycling or against it? Because everything you're telling us puts a stop to recycling. We have an agony, Mr. Famele. Anguish is to speed up recycling because it helps to tackle climate change, which is the great challenge of our times. The main objective is also for the municipalities to achieve these goals set by the ECHR. That's why we give them alternative ways and different tools. What photographic contests? Do you know there's going to be competitions? There will be competitions when each municipality brings its program and joins the program. Also, what you have read is proof that the EEW in its decision of 9 April says that "in principle I am okay with the challenge. When each municipality brings its proposal, I will assess it whether it is compatible with the institutionalised legal framework." That's what you read. The confirmation that it will take place before the auction what the EEAN needs to do. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too, Minister. It is known in this House that the second question, number 911/29-6-2021, is the first question of the Senate MEP, Mr. Konstantinos Boumbas, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Not at the closure of the only bank of the Municipality of Amphipolis" will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. Discontinue for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are now moving on to the first with number 912/1-7-2021, a topical question for the first cycle of the SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Christos Spirtzis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The appeal of the Ministry of Civil Protection (PRO) against the decision 8144/2020 of the primary administrative court. The timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou. Mr. Spirtzis has the floor for two minutes for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with regret but at the same time with indignation, we were informed by the reporter Manolis Kyprianios on 28 June that you appealed as a government against judgment 8144/20 of the primary administrative court attacking forces against the journalist on June 11, 2011. You know her very well, because then you were chief of police. Recall that the decision of the primary court is a catapult against the forces of the Greek Police, the MATs and points out that not only should they not use this grenade in the space in which Manolis Kyprianos was located as a journalist, but it was forbidden to drop it in a limited space such as the one who fell, and even constitutes an unjustified use of it. The autism waves that were created were unfortunately multiplied in the arrow. They had the total deafness of Manolis Kypraiu as a result. And that's what the decision says, he's taken it. During the judiciary, the total deafness of the journalist is linked to the drop of the grenade. It is solely because of this unlawful act by the defendant, namely, the Greek State, and the court rejected the journalist's plea of co-responsibility but rejected the expert opinion you had testified as Ministry at the time. I want you to respond to specific things, since Manolis Kypras has 90% disability from doctors' opinions, not private doctors. And the way in which your specific appeal was written against the primary case, anyone who reads it understands that it offends a 90% disabled person due to his disability in the way the forces operate or function. That's not good enough. Unfortunately - it is not a rule of law - you invoke in your appeal the inability to pay the public, because we have a memorandum and the country's finances are not well. I think these claims really embarrass...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u20	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u21	I shall conclude, Mr President, by making the questions. So why in your appeal, are you ignoring the independent expert findings, both of the pyrotechnician and of the doctor? Why in the unprecedented Greek data decision of the primary court - as you know that this journalist bears a cochlear implant - you claim that his hearing has returned? This can only happen as a miracle. He hears elementary and quiet human voices alone. Why don't you do what you did in Marfin's case, in fact, by deciding, as the Prime Minister, that you should not appeal? Finally, why call for second-time laws of Gestapo, 1943, the junta - Royal Decree of '72 - to justify the use of violence by EL.AS. Against civilians and mostly journalists? Finally, in what way and for how many days are police officers using flash grenades in all those parts that were or established? Every time you repeat their education? Included in their knowledge the flare fence grenades, if we have less than 10 meters of distance...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You've been in six minutes from the two of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u23	I'm done, Mr. President. Finally, you should tell us whether they were bearing discreetly, at last, because, as you know, they did not wear discreetly in this case. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Parliamentary, this timely question recalls in our memory a time period when our country experienced an unprecedented social tension as a result of the fiscal and financial crisis that had erupted over a decade ago. We all remember the images of mass mobilisation, as well as the daily tension in the country between groups of citizens and law enforcement authorities. This was a confessed turbulent period during which the moments that sealed the further course of the country and events that affected the rest of our fellow citizens were not missing. The events of Philhellenic street, on June 15, 2011, where the injury of journalist Manolis Kyprianios was noted on the margins of incidents that occurred during the strikes, are known to all of us. Moreover, any restriction of today's debate on another narrative or description of what happened at that time would significantly reduce the real reasons why we are here today. It would deprive the citizen who is currently monitoring us of the possibility of being informed substantially of the development of this matter from a legal and judicial point of view and of a number of other issues of interest which are raised in the form of questions. Starting with your second question, I would like to point out the following. With regard to the question of education and, in particular, in the context of ongoing operational preparedness and efficiency of the sub-direction of order measures, monthly training shall be carried out in all measures used to restore order and shall include as the object and use of flash-shock grenades, both in theoretical and practical terms. A corresponding process on an annual basis also applies to the Crime Prevention and Suppression Groups, the known PLOs, action and two-cyclical policing groups, namely the DIA Group. In particular, additional three-day training has been carried out for staff serving at the Police Operations Directorate. Of course, during the current period, due to measures to avoid the spread of the coronary, the realisation of these training is under constant evaluation, as is always the case with epidemiological data. On the issue of the discrepancies to be brought by police officers, I would like to stress that this is primarily a factor dictated by the need for transparent action by police officers and, at the same time, a tool for permanent accountability of those of police officers who are diverted in the performance of their duties. The obligation of police officers serving in the Order Restoration Sub-addresses to bear on their helmets a special distinguishing number is already provided for in my Headquarters at the Greek Police, when by decision, under No 7012/6/103H on 31-12-2009, a special identification number was introduced for police officers serving in Order Restoration Sub-addresses, which is reflected on their helmets, while the obligation of the police of the other services to bear their distinctive identification numbers. This obligation has already been highlighted by the Headquarters of EL.AS. with a new order on 22-12-2019 to all police services, which draws attention to the absolute observance of the provisions on uniforms for Greek Police personnel. Finally, with a further decision of the Chief of Staff in March 2021, this obligation is extended to the officials of the Crime Prevention and Repression Teams, the ACTION Groups, as well as the Orders and Mutual Support Sub-departments set up in the local Police Directorates of Territorial Prefectures. As far as the first question of this topical question is concerned, I will not go into your position, avoiding personal judgments on matters relating to medical science, and I will confine myself to some points in the ongoing legal course of this case by providing for the necessary clarifications to make the Greek Parliament and the public fully informed. Manolis Kypriaos brought an action against the Greek State before the Administrative Court of Athens for the payment of EUR 4,508,772 by the Greek State on August 2, 2011. In addition, on 4 August it submitted a request for a provisional claim against the Greek State requesting the provisional application of the amount of EUR 417 380. This was partly accepted and thus paid to Mr. Kyprios the amount of EUR 115,741 from the Greek state on March 16, 2012. The complaint was debated in 2020 and a decision was subsequently adopted in respect of the total amount of EUR 190,055 as compensation that the Greek State had to pay to Mr Kypraio. Having already received the above-mentioned amount of EUR 115,741, the amount of EUR 74,314 was left with legal interest up to its full repayment as a financial obligation of the Greek state to Mr Kyprianos. On this decision, namely No 8144/2020, appeals have been brought on either side by the parties, namely by the Greek State and by Mr Kyprianos. These appeals will be discussed this November, so you realise that we are in the process of a judicial process in progress which concerns, like many others, a citizen's claim of money from the Greek State. So what I would like to highlight in conclusion my initial position and before I go into more detail after the debate, is that it is not useful to cultivate an image that does not really respond by describing a government that is supposedly capable of and yet does not choose to do differently than it does today. It is not true, it does not serve to inform the citizens and impressions that are being created are inconsistent with Mr Kyprian's own person, who has been diligently and seriously for all these years claiming what he believes is entitled to the Greek state. I would also like to clarify why, in fact, the seriousness and responsibility of Manolis Kypras and the attitude he has shown throughout this period, with whom he is linking me with a personal relationship, and because you said that his injury took place during the period when I was chief, I would like to inform you that Manolis Kypraos and the late Manolis Glezos attended a special event following his injury to police violence and the issue of the attitude of police forces during outdoor public gatherings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too, Minister. You have the floor for your dentistry, Mr President. I won't put time on you, it's the last question, because you both got past it. With your comfort, but to finish because we have committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President, for a substantial debate. I know that. Mr. Economou is absolutely right. He organised a conference - and I say it because the president happens to have served justice many years and be president of judges - in 2011 entitled 'Police and human rights'. I'm going to read to you what we said, Mr. Economou, about Mr. Kypranos. And, indeed, as chief of police, you showed the person you had to show when the man woke up and went to work and walked six years later. Six years later, after very heavy surgery and interventions in his body. It took six years to walk and apparently his hearing will never come back. You said: "With this opportunity, today is Manolis Kyprianos, and I would like to thank him for accepting this invitation of the feds", the police, I imagine, "and it is very important that his presence today is to listen on the side of a man who has been injured, who has really shaken his health because of the use of force, to listen to the other side. And as a leader, I feel the need in the name of Manolis Kypraiu and in his symbolism to the victims of violence and those who come from the police, but also to the police, but also to the victims of violence, to ask for an apology." And you were absolutely right. What's the apology you're asking for today as Minister? First of all, let us say that on 14-3/2012 - you were a State Secretary at the time - the ETUC that had taken place that no responsibility arises for anyone. Is that possible? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The men of MATs did not wear discreetly, they fired a grenade inside a closed space, the man was injured, and indeed, it happens that he is a journalist that means even heavier to democracy, he had the freeness and courage to respond to the call from the police in 2011, which shows greatness this thing has been injured by the police and to be present against police violence. And here comes the Greek public today, and how does he apologize? Exercising an appeal which offends him and as a disabled person, but how did this disability result? So that we do not go and see the rest of the invoked in the report. I read the Ministry's announcement. I understand you're in a difficult position, but don't tell us that the government has absolutely no involvement in this case. Who's got it? Is the Legal Council of the State independent? So are we elsewhere or are we interfering with the way we handled legally? The aims of the Legal Council of the State are not to appeal and to compromise with the citizen, you as a Ministry, because you are the responsible ministry. In the file you make, you give the arguments as a Ministry to feed the Legal Council of State. You accept the SAD that relieves everyone! And Mr Economou, it is terrible because I think it is not appropriate, neither in our democracy nor after what the country has been through, nor in the modern problems that we have with what we have to face, to behave like this to the citizens. And I ask you: why did Marfin not follow the same practice? Why didn't he appeal the public? Why did the government announce that by the Minister's mandate, no appeal was filed by the Prime Minister? Is that a more catchy matter? Is there an intervention in the work of the Council of State, according to your announcement, by the Prime Minister to get these out? Not obviously. A political decision was taken - it was right - that it should also be taken here. Take her now! Get back, cancel the appeal. But the fact that you have not made a statement as a government to apologise in practice and not in words about what happened in the life of a young man, a journalist, does show a lot of things, Mr. Economou. I'm closing, Mr. President. I urge you to return to your original position as Chief of Police and stop moving with the dogmas of the Mitsotakis State on these issues. Not on one side only. On the other hand, if we want to honor our democracy, our Constitution, if we want to honour the institutional framework of the Legal Council of State, but if we want to honor the people who have suffered their bodies, their lives, they will follow them until they die, damage them from this way of operating the security bodies and especially those who have the suppression in their power. If we want to bridge the relationship between the citizens and the Greek police. If we want to lead them to a test, you can continue as you now. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, the public debate and, in particular, the one conducted within the Greek Parliament must be governed by absolute accuracy and documentation. It does not ultimately benefit anyone to cultivate ambiguities and to hover a climate open to misinterpretations of acts, but also to the intentions of the government. Because, as I have repeatedly pointed out, anyone who tries to clash with reality will eventually come out defeated. The Greek State and the Government are not excessive or unclear nor of course overlap. Those who artificially deliberately move on this wrong basis sooner or later are faced with the data that in our case are clearly defined by the Constitution and the legal order. The question you raise in the debate on this topical question is not a matter of Greek government intentions, but of procedures dictated by the legislator. Any action for damages against the Greek State, the legal representative of which is the Minister of Finance and not the Minister concerned, and in this case the Minister for Civil Protection, shall be forwarded to the competent Ministry and shall be accompanied by an order of the President of the Legal Board of State to the Office of Legal Adviser of the State to the Ministry responsible for objecting the action and claims of the other party to the extent necessary to cover the costs. The independence of the Legal Council of the State and, by extension, of each Legal Adviser of the State, and more generally of the judiciary, is based on the legal order of our country. Consequently, the Minister concerned shall not in any way be entitled to intervene either by means of a mandate or decision not to lodge or withdraw the appeal in this regard at the Office of a Legal Adviser of the State based in the Ministry which is headed. In the case of Marfin, which you refer to in this timely question, the case had been decided on the substance of the case. Only then did the Minister of Finance express in writing on 9-5-2020 to the President of the Law Council of the State his wish to examine whether there were grounds for waiving the appeal of the Greek State. In the case of Mr Kyprian, the case has only been judged in the first place. It has not been finalised, as I have pointed out earlier, the case of either of the appeals submitted is pending. Therefore, any attempt to compare or parallel the two cases that are being made by the timely question is at least unfortunate. To conclude, I would like to point out that the attempt to give the Government a personal capacity of indifference or lack of sensitivity to a human adventure of one of our fellow citizens, is directly conflicting with the inestimable obligation to respect the constitution, the legal order and the procedures provided for by the legislature that the parties must follow. Respect for all of us in the legislature's requirements is the guarantee of a rule of law and the orderly functioning of a coordinate state where citizens, when they feel that the reasons are in place, will continue to trust independent justice, claiming their right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-09-S1-commons.u31	With the consent of the House at 10.01 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, 12 July 2021 and 16.00 on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
