ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's opinion of 14-05-2021, the minutes of its PKB meeting of 13 May 2021 concerning the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2019/878 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending Directive 2013/36/EU, as regards exempted entities, financial holding companies, mixed financial holding companies, remuneration, supervisory measures and capital conservation measures (L 150), incorporating Directive (EU) 2019/879 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 amending Directive 2014/59/EU on the absorption capacity of credit institutions and investment firms and Directive 98/26/EC (L 150), by means of an amendment to Article 2 of Council Directive 2014/59/EU Regulation (EU) No 4335/2015, and other emergency provisions’]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Rallia Christidou, Member of the European Parliament B3', of the South Athens Sector:]] MANUFACTURING AUTHORISATION HOLDERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH [[Let the page in. 2a]] B. REQUESTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we move on to the debate on topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, let me first inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Monday 17 May 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Efstratiou (Stratou) Simopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Financial support for coastal fishermen through the 2014-2020 Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 736/10-5-2021 of the First Vice President of the Parliament and MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Mell of the Greek Shipyards S.A. (E.N.A.E.) and the real estate of the Real Estate Company (ETAD) in Scaramaga." 3. The question raised by Mr Andreas Poulas, Member of the Commission. — (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the President-in-Office of the Council. 4. The question by No. 731/10-5-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr. Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of Finance, on "Problems of Workers in the Greek Vehicle Industry S.A., which is in special liquidation". 5. The 750/10-5-2021 topical question by MP Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas to the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for communication and information issues, Mr. Theodoros Livanios, on "Removal of the right to payment of a reduced rent to the DIGEA". 6. The 728/10-5-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Hanya-Wavernet Monastery: Illegal ban on the use of a provincial road in Akrotiri". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Efstratiou (Stratou) Simopoulos to the Minister of Finance, dated 726/10-5-2021, a topical question by MP I of the Republic of Thessaloniki, on "Following the staff of detention shops". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 741/10-5-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Department of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Civil Protection, entitled "Anti-Pyrical Period 2021". 3. The question asked by Mr Andreas Poulas, Member of Parliament, with number 723/10-5-2021, by Mr. Andreas Poulas, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Reward for offering health to the battle against pandemic'. 4. The Question No 734/10-5-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Direct measures to support clubs and athletes in the relaunch of sport". 5. The question by number 742/10-5-2021 of the SYRIZA MP Thesprotia - Progressive Alliance Mr Marios Katsis to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: 'Dispayments to DIGEA' due to a non-transfer to DVB - T2 technology'. 6. The question asked by MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Digital Governance, on "The digital illiteracy today equals "digital disability" and the attempt to reduce it." 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 746/10-5-2021 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnaka, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Direct action to address the operating problems of the Ikaria Hospital and to deal with the dispersion of COVID -19". 8. The Question No 744/10-5-2021 by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skourletis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Danger to the future of the Group of Greek Petroleum companies (ELPE SA) - Dismissal of rights by public and administrative workers'. 9. The Question No 727/10-5-2021 by the Member of the Ilias of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Timetable of work of the "Patras - Tower" and completion of the "Olympia - Bytina - Tripoli"". 10. The 745/10-5-20201 topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Directly necessary to defend the public's interests in Greek Petroleum (ELPE)". 11. The question by number 740/10-5-2021 that was asked by MP Heraklion of the Movement of Change, Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To continue the concession of the Real Estate Company (ETAD) in which the International Exhibition Centre of Crete is housed and its use for the benefit of local society". 12. SYRIZA's 747/10-5-2021 topical question by MP Pella - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jackis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The frost of 8, 9 and 10 April 2021 gave the graceful shot to the trees of Pella". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture and Sports, entitled "Open Gymnastics". 14. Observed. The question by number 748/10-5-20201 of the SYRIZA MP Florina - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Restoration of mining land in the region of Western Macedonia and Megalopolis in the light of extinction". 15. Mr Ilhan Ahmet, Minister for Health, on the subject: "Absence of vaccination centres in the Municipality of Arrianes of Regional Unity (P.E.) Rhodope’. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 47603-2021 asked by SYRIZA MP Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Health, entitled ‘Definition of a vaccination centre for mRNA technology vaccines in North Evia’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Health, on "Return of funds retained in the context of availability to hospital workers and primary care units in Thessaloniki". 3. The question asked by MP Rhodope of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Dimitrios (Takis) Charitou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Adjustment - Delete the housing loans of the repatriated expatriates of Thrace". 4. The Question No 4512/24-2-2021 by MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charalambos (Hari) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What are the conditions for privatising the former US base in York Heraklion Crete". 5. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Request for the regulation of their professional rights". Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing today's topical and urgent debate. In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that today, Question No 5220/22-2021 is to be debated, Question No 5220-12-2021, Question No 735/10-5-2021, 733/10-5-2021 and 730/10-5-2021 topical questions. We are now beginning with Question No 5220/22-2021 question of the circle of petitions by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Support measures for gymnastics'. Mr. Kegeroglu, good morning. You've got two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you well know, gymnasiums belong to the category of companies that have been closed down, perhaps most of them because of their nature, as they are supposedly closed spaces. In order to function, a certain number of trainees need to be involved in these areas. Of course, I should like to note from the outset that at the same time it is also the activity that can be dealt with through it that is an important part of the problems that have arisen because of the pandemic and the closure of people, the closure of social activities. Sport is an activity that needs us in this period. Yesterday you announced that there is a will on your part at the end of the month for these activities to be opened by health protocols, because the intransigent principle should be the safe opening so that we do not have a setback. We want to see whether there are currently defined rules, what the health protocols provide for. And of course what we need to see is that opening does not mean ending problems. Unfortunately, there are accumulated obligations which are not only financial to third parties but also to customers, since the gyms work in many contracts, with subscriptions, so they have prepared for activities and services they will provide in the next period. There's also a negative thing about the variability of activities, because as you know in the summer months there's always a fall in this activity. It is very good that you announced their accession to the ESDP. In our view, a transitional support programme is also needed so that they do not leave themselves to chance in the next few months, so that we can have the safe operation that will contribute, as I said at the outset, to the treatment of many psychosocial problems caused by pandemic itself. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis, will answer. Mr. Georgiade, good morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u5	First of all, thank you very much for the question. The question is very right and it comes at a very correct time, because we did in fact announce yesterday's roadmap of relaunching economic activities. The gym industry will open on May 31st. The health protocol under which it will open will not be much different from last year. It will definitely have self-test for the workers. It will be announced within the week on the decision of the Sanctions Committee. Of course, during the progress of vaccination, there will be a relaxation of measures as will all other economic activities. As the vaccinations go on and the wall of immunity in the pandemic is built, so we can take back the life that the pandemic has been deprived of us all this time. Now you will allow me, my dear fellow Member, to also agree with you how critical the operation of the gymnasiums is, especially after the pandemic, the long-standing incarnation of the quarantine and any problems in our psychology and our weight, and to what this prolonged lack of exercise and this incarceration may have been. I do not hide from you that I intend - beyond what I am going to announce now - to myself, since I have had a recent adventure of health and I need a gymnastics as a means of treatment, I will immediately join the gym as soon as our gyms open up and I will invite our fellow citizens to do so, because the gyms need our participation. A lot beyond the benefit of our own, we have to support them. It is not enough to support the state. We need to break the habit of falling out in the summer because this will be very crucial for the survival of all these businesses and I think showing our good will to each other in the crisis is important. Also, let me say that we announced yesterday that the ESDP platform to support gyms, pediatrics and the second week of June will be opened for the digital upgrade of lawyers. This programme will have an association of subsidisation via NSRF in gymnasiums depending on the number of employees. One employee will get 4,000 euros, with more than 8,000 to 12,000 employees and more than 17,000 euros. This money is non-refundable, it is a subsidy to help gyms in the period of their re-engineering with working capital in order to keep jobs and to be able to regulate well the re-launch of their activities. Of course, we have no delusion that this measure can save the damage that the gyms have suffered all this time. In my dentistry, therefore, in order not to abuse time, I will report to you all the measures we have taken, but also our decision on the future. I'm only saying in my protology this way, so you can comment on it. We will not leave the gyms - like all the other branches, which have been closed in the long term and have suffered a great deal of damage - on their own and after the resumption of economic activity. We will continue to support the measures as far as possible in order to ensure that these businesses are working and nobody is left behind. In conclusion, Mr President, let me say for the second time why it must be heard by this House. In a few minutes' time, at 10.00 p.m., the online platform of the Ministry of Development and Investment "EPENDYSEIS" opens, so that the focus companies can make their request, who want to receive the grant of up to 7% of the 2019 turnover, provided that they meet the criterion of -30% of the turnover in 2019-2020, with the aim of restoring their activity and with the sole obligation to deposit up to 31 December of the relevant documents, that the money was not generally spent on the business’s obligations or wishes, but on the purchase of materials that have to do with the supply for the operation of the focus operation and, of course, with the mandatory maintenance of jobs. All our measures are aimed at maintaining jobs. This will be the next big fight.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Minister, and if possible the locker rooms in the gyms to open up. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. A number of activities need to be taken care of by the state, so that the opening is also safe in terms of health, but at the same time has the prerequisites for economic survival. I have already referred to the accumulated debts of all businesses, accumulated obligations and the need to have a transitional support programme. I should like to start by referring to the need for health rules for opening up. Of course they will be the ones who, in the opinion of scientists, ensure safety in relation to the coronary, but at the same time give them the opportunity for a minimum function. The test has been shown to be a safe measure of prevention and there is, of course, no repressive view whether the test of any kind should also be carried out by vaccinated people. It is therefore useful to see the rules that the Scientific Committee will finally accept for their opening. In the economic field we have to agree that a transitional programme should include a progressively impaired support, which has to do with rents, in my view with the possibility of suspending work. Of course, they should be escalating while companies open up. And of course, the issue of gymnasiums, that is, the specificity of working hours. Unfortunately, there was no integration of people working in gyms with hourly employment, there was no such possibility and they remained without support on the "air". Perhaps in the transitional period we need to do so. You also connected - rightly so - support through the NSRP with the number of workers. It is one of the main criteria which must in any case apply to undertakings. See if the special purpose aid can continue for a few months. It is therefore a very good thing that we are moving towards an opening. We want this and safe health, and we want it safe in terms of survival and the ability of the company to open up. If you can, we want you to tell us the concrete measures and the specific criteria for both the ESRB and the other forms of support for gyms, as you have done very well, and you announced about the focus, a great category that needs support, even though there was at least an opening for outdoors. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u9	Mr Kegeroglu as an experienced politician and successful in the Ministry of Labour in the past certainly counts what he says and is true. So I agree with you. Indeed, the support measures we have in mind for the continuation, that is, after the opening of economic activities, assess as a primary issue our support for rents in the next space for gyms. I am talking about gyms now because, as you have seen, in retail trade, for example, there has been support for rent and since the retail trade has been opened. There was support in the focus and after the focus was opened. Of course, the same will be done with the gyms. And I agree that there should be even partially the possibility of suspending workers so that they can slowly and smoothly enter their economic cycle. All this, of course, is not just an initiative from the Ministry of Development. It is a global initiative by the Government and the Ministry of Finance primarily, but also by the Ministry of Labour. I would remind you that we have not left gyms all this time without help, my dear colleague. Gymnasiums have participated in all pre-paid cycles. We have already completed - the seventh - seven cycles of repayable payment is now completed. The total amount allocated to enterprises in the country is more than EUR 8 billion. A large share of this amount went to the gyms, which because of the algorithm and mosque had - let's say so - a greater proportional participation. I have to tell you that this month is beginning to cover the fixed costs from the Ministry of Finance, where eligible fixed costs are the payment of the public, public utility bills, rents, employees, etc. Therefore, they will also have additional support for gyms up to the extra tool to cover the fixed costs. They'll get, like I told you, the extra subsidisation of the ESRB. With regard to the instrument announced by the Development Bank - I say this so that people know it - yesterday afternoon in cooperation with the Greek banks, the granting of loans for micro-enterprises, that is, companies with an annual turnover of up to EUR 200,000. These companies may receive a maximum guaranteed loan of up to EUR 50,000 or 25% of their annual turnover. It is a targeted tool for micro-enterprises, that is to say, that were normally excluded from the banks during the process of guaranteed loans that we had made in the previous two cycles, where the banks objectively preferred the largest companies from small enterprises. In order to reverse this problem, therefore, since yesterday, the new tool of the Development Bank of the Ministry of Development for these very small enterprises has been working. Surely a number of them belong to the gym industry that can look back at the bank with which they work and receive at extremely low interest rates due to the guarantee of loans, I repeat, up to EUR 50 000, just to have additional working capital for their relaunch. There is no, my dear colleague, - and I would like you to believe me - one day that we do not think of - not only I, of course, the Prime Minister above all and all the co-legislative ministers - the enormous responsibility that we are given to us so that we can relaunch the Greek economy now that the pandemic begins to retreat. The health protocols that we are discussing with the committee will be such as to enable the gymnasiums to function. I repeat that as long as our fellow citizens are very enthusiastic about the National Vaccine Programme we will be able to give more room for operation in order to be viable too quickly. Greece has now succeeded in being the first country in speed of vaccination in the European Union with more than 1% of its population in daily vaccination. This means that if this pace continues for the next twenty-three days, we will get much faster than we would expect in the famous immunity wall. And then, as the example of both Israel and the United Kingdom has shown, pandemic suddenly disappears there and we can return, if not in our old life, to a much more normal life than we've lived in the past few years. That is why I am once again calling on everyone to be vaccinated as quickly as possible as I can. That's the most critical thing. No matter how much money we find to give, which is certainly not infinite, if our economy does not start again, we will not be able to escape the crisis, and if we don't get vaccinated, our economy will not be able to get started because our pandemic will not fall. Those who exercise their individual right decide not to be vaccinated for various reasons should be aware that they alone are excluded from the most critical national effort that we have experienced in recent decades, from pandemic, and yes, it is their own right, but unfortunately this choice is deeply against the rest of the community. We must therefore all be vaccinated as quickly as possible. Then we will live the life that you have already said and we all want a party, and we will be able to give the businesses the necessary strength, my dear fellow Member, to start and give the workers the certainty that they will have a job tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Minister. Have a good day to both of you. We continue with the third with no 733/10-5-2021 top-level question of the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Protecting the rights of workers in Kavala oil". Mr. Stoltides, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. In Petroleum Kavala, Minister of State, in the country's only oil-producing unit, the two hundred employees with unlimited contracts are in front of the blackmail of the Greek subsidiary ENERGEAN, a member of the ENERGEAN group. Since spring 2020, the company has been invoking the fall of international oil prices, although they have recovered today, and the difficulty of accessing the funding, although it has just completed its acquisition of ‘EDISSON’. On behalf of ENERGEAN, the Greek Government submitted to the European Union a support plan for the company with a loan of 100 million, which was approved. In particular, a loan of 90,5 million was granted with the guarantee of the Greek State and a State guarantee of 9,5 million. These are loans that our people are right from their own experience as'seas' and which they will be called upon to pay again. It has just received the approval from the European Union of an economic and operational restructuring plan with cost rationalisation, translated into a redundancies plan that baptises them 'willful exits' and then new requirements to reduce operating costs, i.e. new reductions in rights. This development is a precursor to those who want the Government to follow through the management of the Recovery Fund that brings for the Greek people a new "superior memorandum" and new antiques, the "revolutions of the century" with the ten-hour work that abolishes the payment of overtime, the strengthening of state control over trade unions, the hit of trade union freedoms, and the business groups are predicted with warm money. The association denounces that the project is a contraction project for the workers, since in the first phase it provides for a hundred sixty employees with an indefinite employment relationship and eighty contractors. At the same time, it notes that serious issues are raised with regard to the safety of land and sea facilities since a large part of experienced and qualified personnel is to be replaced, and the restructuring plan does not provide for a chemical shift, as the association again denounces. Taking into account that in the Nea Karvalis area, there are hundreds of metres away from the Kavala Fertiliser facilities and taking into account the annual inspection report for 2020 by the competent section of the region of East Macedonia and Thrace, in which there have been serious omissions and gaps in the safety of the Kavala Fertiliser facilities directly at risk of a large industrial accident, the people of Kavala naturally express their agony in order not to become a new Lebanon. On the basis of the above, Mr Minister: First, what measures will the company take to prevent the company from moving forward with voluntary resignations - redundancies - from changing the terms of the collective labour agreement, from reducing the wages and rights of workers? Secondly, when will the draft submitted to the European Union be discussed and adopted in Parliament? And thirdly, how will the government ensure the safety of the facilities in Kavala Petroleum and in the wider area to eliminate the risk of a large-scale accident? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Stoltides. The Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Panagiotis Tsakloglou, will answer. Mr. Secretary, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u13	Good morning and thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Stoltides, the Government and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs pays very great attention to the issues of workers' health and safety by developing, through its competent services, actions at both legislative and audit level. But before I come to answer your question in the field of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I would like to point out that you have three questions in the question you have tabled. For both of these you should contact the relevant ministries and not the Ministry of Labour. The truth is, some information I tried to collect from it, but you realize I can't answer you in depth. In other words, you are addressing the labour relations of the workers to whom I will reply, but you are also addressing issues relating to the operation of the plant itself, which are the responsibility of other ministries. In other words, the safety of the facilities in the Kavala Petroleum, as well as in the activities of the highest security enterprises, is subject to special legislation, which is entrusted to the Ministry of Development. Mr. Georgiadis was here earlier. Under existing legislation, there is a joint ministerial decision laying down rules for the protection of workers from the risks of major accidents involving dangerous chemicals and the wider areas in which these undertakings operate. Now, according to the information I received from the OSCE, the control and intervention of the Ministry of Labour are related to the safety of workers and does not interfere with the technical operation of installations subject to very specific European directives and take into account issues such as the protection of the general population, public health and, obviously, the protection of the environment. That is to say, not one or two, but six co-operating ministries. And these Ministries are the Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Development and Tourism, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Economic and Environment and Energy. In the decision on 17-02-2016, the relevant departments of the Ministry of Labour cooperate closely with other co-operating bodies. Now, according to the Ministry of Labour's Directorate responsible, the company 'PETRELAIA KAVALAS' and, in particular, its land-based part, that is, the processing refinery 'KAVALA Oil SA' is subject to the provisions of the new joint ministerial decision. It is Seveso III which you refer to in your question - and the licensing authority there is the Ministry of Environment and Energy's Hydrocarbons Directorate, which obviously can answer your question in detail. In other words, it is obviously not the responsibility of the Labour Safety and Health Inspectorate to comply with the safety rules governing the operation of the land-based facilities of the Kavala Oil SA in New Karvalis and in general of the refinement and storage facilities for oil as they are laid down by special legislation of the Ministry of the Environment and Labour. With regard to workers' safety and health issues within the territory and coastal facilities of KAVAL Oil SA from 1 January 2017 until today, the local labour security and health inspection in Kavala has carried out nine checks. At the same time, the APRC since the entry into force of the emergency measures to protect public health to prevent and limit the spread of the coronary is closely following the issues of management by the ‘KAVAL OIL S.A.’ of suspected and confirmed cases of disease among workers, namely isolation, traceability, etc. In general, the health supervision of workers by the occupational physician of the undertaking. That's all so far. On industrial relations, I will respond to my dentistry, because I have already exceeded my time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u14	As you wish, thank you very much. Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think it would help you to give an approach to work, because we think the questions too are very easy to answer. We ask the government and monologuely could be answered, if that were the intention. But, look, I'm coming back on what business we're talking about. We are talking about a business with colossal profits and based on the good energy map: Investments from Montenegro to Egypt and Israel, acquisition of 'EDISSON', admission to the London Stock Exchange, absorption of 60% of REPSOL in research rights in Ioannina and Thesprotia, acquisition of Block 2 from "TOTAL" west of Corfu, an estimate of revenues for 2023 of 2 billion a year, i.e. above its stock exchange value. Furthermore, it calls for the outsourcing of the outsourcing view in southern Kavala to be converted into an underground gas warehouse in the final phase of the tender and even re-integrated into projects of common interest by the European Union, that is to say, a project eligible for financing from the European Union. Minister, you will allow me to talk about poverty cursed literally, which in essence also needed funding. And we have to say here that our people in the hospitals of one disease still die massively from the lack of health and infrastructure and your government chooses to charge them more "seawater". Every day from the beginning of your governance - I am sorry to say this to the government - the government is falsifying our people for new and well paid jobs, from morning to night, and you have not left any job from the existing ones that you have not broken. This is where, as the government's choice, you have to fund redundancies themselves. He wants "ENERGYIKI" to fire workers and hire the same or new cheap slaves and with unpaid penny with the bill you are preparing and you choose to pay for it with the money of our people. This is clear because you are financing them without the slightest condition of maintaining the jobs and the rights of workers. You must stop this immediately, Minister. This is what we are asking: is the public interest in you being impoverished by workers to fill the treasures of business groups that offer nothing to the people's interests? So much you have raised the list of business groups for profits that do not even provide experienced staff to secure land and sea facilities from large-scale disasters that endanger the people of the whole region. You sent the Labour Inspectorate yesterday obviously, in our view, to defend your choices, while complaints are being made for accidents and accidents at contractors by the union after 14 years. Minister, the "GENERGIAKI" under the responsibility of your government, but also of the previous governments, exploits oil, which is the property of the Greek people and could, if it had been in its hands, constitute an important energy reserve for its needs and not to reap energy poverty even in the region of Kavala which produces oil. Workers say they have sufficient and valuable experience. They know very well that everything is due to their work and nothing without it can be done. They know very well with the same experience that the stop "we put back to save the business" has led with mathematical accuracy to new retreats, new sufferings. We think they know their power, they've tried it. They can with the organized class struggle through their union to repudiate the attack by government and employers. In this battle they of course can and must count on the people of the region who have common interests and of course the Communist Party of Greece with all its powers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Stoltides. The Minister has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Stoltides, our political differences are obvious, but this is something that is perfectly legitimate. However, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Labour, insofar as it is involved, has done and will continue to do what is necessary. The Kavala Labour Relations Inspectorate has informed us that no complaints have been filed by workers in Kavala Petroleum, neither in violation of labour law nor in isolation in respect of any labour disputes. In fact, two days ago, as you pointed out in your dentistry, an audit was carried out by the APRC in the company where all the necessary documents were requested and demonstrated, such as an annual staff table, a work programme, a payroll situation and an examination of this, were not found to be an infringement of labour law. In relation to the company's restructuring plan, the Greek Company of Hydrocarbons, which is the main agency responsible for what we are discussing, informed us that the process of amending the contract is at the stage of negotiations with the contractor, so it is not possible to provide further information at this time. However, in an update I received late last night from the Ministry of Finance it is clearly stated that the loan guarantee received by the company after approval by the European Commission does not require a reduction in the company's operating costs, the work you said before. I would point out, however, once again that this issue, namely the terms of the restructuring plan for the company, is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour. And to be absolutely honest, right now you're asking us about something that hasn't happened. On the part of our own competence, however, our political decision is clear and contrary to what is implied by various, in the new labour law, we are strengthening the role of labour inspection by turning it into an independent administrative authority with functional independence, administrative and financial self-sufficiency. In other words, it stops supervision by government institutions and state bodies so that its work is done even more effectively, with even greater transparency and by providing even greater protection for workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Minister. Have a good day to both of you! And we go to the next question, which is the first under number 730/10-5-2021, a topical question by MP B1' North Athens, Nea Democrat Georgios Koumoutsakos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Addressing current Podonniftis". Mr. Kumucaco, good morning. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u19	Good morning, Mr. President. Anti-military protection and the armouring of our cities are a key purpose and concern for a modern state. Anthropogenic activities and climate change exacerbate the need for integrated and environmentally sustainable intervention, especially in the areas of urban development. The Ponnift's stream is a special case. It has been included in the special environmental interest and maximum ecological value streams, as it has been described by the 1993 Act. It runs four municipalities in the North sector: Halandri, Psychic, Nea Ionia and Philadelphia. The challenge is double with regard to this stream. On the open track, about 1,500 meters - 1,200 meters in accuracy -, which passes through Psychics and Philothei is really an environmental oasis, but, at the same time, it can potentially create large flooding phenomena, as was done in 2018, which literally flooded the Municipal Stadium of Philothei "Kyriakidis" and was something really dangerous for the inhabitants of the area. The question, Minister, to the Ministry is twofold and I would also like to say that this is an issue that I have had with all the municipalities in the region, which is among their main priorities and concerns. The question is, firstly, whether there is a settlement study to deal with the flooding benefits for the entire stream from the edges of Penteli to the expulsion to Kifissos and, secondly, whether the necessary settlement projects are planned, either from the Recovery Fund, either from the NSRF 2021-2027 or from the European Investment Bank loan. And if they go ahead, it is important to know who will take over the construction of the project where they need and when it is being studied and borrowed. It is a question I really must tell you that it is of particular interest to the inhabitants of all four municipalities. Of course, there is also the environmental challenge that is to keep its open part on the best environmental terms and, at the same time, to protect the inhabitants of these regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Kumucako. The State Secretary for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Mr. Tagaras, good morning. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. My dear colleague, firstly I respect the sensitivity you show to your particular place on a crucial issue, which is of course of concern to all of Greece, the issue of the impacts and management of the ravages, a very critical size. And when we talk about urban areas, it is even more serious, because it has many dangers if we do not manage it properly. I'll say some horizontal reports before I focus on this case. I would like to say to you that as far as at least the Ministry of the Environment is concerned, its involvement and its relationship with projections, but also in this respect, it has to do with river basin management plans and priority river flood risk management plans in the risk that were signed and drawn up for the first time in 2014. I even had the honour of being the first signatories to these fourteen aqueducts throughout Greece. One of them is Attica. That is the first point. There has been a first revision. At the moment it is in progress a competitive process for the second revision, to always receive up-to-date all the data that are evolving. That's the one I want as a horizontal reference to say. It also refers to the specific issue we are discussing. The second is the law on the basis of which issues relating to racial demarcations are evolving. It's n.4258. I had the honour of proposing this law as the appropriate Deputy Minister for the Environment in 1914 again here in Parliament. This is the framework, in terms of - and I will supplement - of the Environmental Licensing Directorate for which category A1, major and significant projects are licensed. That's a horizontal reference. As far as the Podonnift stream is concerned, which, as you said yourself, starts from the Pentelic Mount, ends up in Kifissos and runs many critical settlements and major problems have arisen in the past, I would like to say that 85% of the whole water basin is covered by urban areas, urban interventions and only 15% of nature has been left as it was. This understands that in itself it multiplys the degree of risk from its operation in all the cargo it carries. What I would also like to say to you is that from the total length of at least 75% is a closed section and only the rest on some points like what you mentioned is open. We are here to balance between the protection of the environment and biodiversity - you have also mentioned - on the one hand, and the safety of the urban fabric and, on the other hand, the facilities in general. As far as the competitive process is concerned, what has happened and where we are today, I shall deal with my dentistry in detail, so as not to cover another year. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Kumucaco, three minutes for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much for the presence and the answer, Mr Minister. After all, it is well known that you are among those members of the government who specifically have a history of action, but also knowledge of these issues. Pending your response to the competitive process, I should once again stress the interest of many municipalities and residents in the settlement of this pending process. I am sure that, as the importance of this matter has emerged today by parliamentary procedure, the Ministry within the many other priorities that it has set itself in cooperation with both the municipalities and the region, an effort of the best possible, and within a short period of time, to resolve the issue, which, as you have said, and I repeat, is a dual challenge, environmental conservation in an area that also has flora and fauna. And it is impressive that within the urban fabric there is such a piece and it is maintained, if you want, an environmental oasis in these areas that runs, and of course there is every effort to prevent flooding from repeating such serious phenomena. We are living at a time when weather conditions are becoming unpredictable, with moments and forces that we have never met before, so I am sure in time that the state will move with your own contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u24	Thank you too, Mr Kumucako. Mr. Tagaras, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u26	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, I have said so and I will repeat it: I am pleased with the sensitivity you have shown in such a critical area. On the occasion of your region - and, of course, also in other parts of our country - we have lived, precisely because of climate change, and lastly many difficult events, with many critical and unpleasant results. That is why our responsibility is even greater. I would particularly like to mention what has started, where we are and what we are going to be. The settlement study from the Attica Region had begun. In 2016, in this study, as regards the decision to approve environmental conditions adopted by the Decentralised Administration of Attica in the Council of State, there was a problem with the decision to approve environmental conditions, thereby stopping the process of progressing the settlement study. That's as a story about the before. What is now evolving through the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. I know that the process is under way, with an estimated time in the third quarter of 2021, the competitive process will proceed, to settle the Podonnift at the point you are referring to. This, of course, is the study. From there on, they'll need money to build it. Financing, from what I can tell you, is that, as I said to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, there are 2 million euros for the study. As far as the construction of anti-military works is concerned, there are also the EUR 110 million Recovery and Resilience Fund, as well as the new NSRF, precisely to address the impact of climate change. One of these is the flooding armour of our country, but also the specific project. It's a top priority. Precisely because the urban fabric is too large, the largest residential fabric in Attica and especially in the four municipalities you mentioned, I would like to tell you that we are in contact and cooperation with both the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and with the region. And the General Secretariat for Civil Protection is aware that it is the case. It does not concern it and does not concern it, nor does it concern it, nor does it concern it, nor does it concern it or the construction of such projects. That is my answer, that together - and I am pleased about the question and because I know your sensitivity and yours in the area you are in - we will be in tune with the fastest time and with the best results to secure the area we have been talking about. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. I wish you both well all the time. We continue with the second with number 735/10-5-2021 topical question by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Mousala, Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Complete conclusion of the conditions that led to the death in pre-regions detention centres for foreigners (PROKKA) Kos and Korinthos". Mr. Muzala, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u30	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u31	Minister, thank you for being here. The question seems to have lost its topical character over time. However, the delay is not due to the Minister's will, but to his obligations. And that is totally acceptable. It remains timely, however, the question at its level of what measures have been taken so that these phenomena are not repeated. What's the phenomena? The phenomena are bad behaviour, which led to the death of a prisoner at the pre-retirement center in Kos and the application of this paradox law with thirty-six months detention, which also led to a prisoner at the PRECH of Corinth. Obviously, it is not our intention to accuse the Minister or the Ministry through the Minister of murdering people and all these things. I'm able to know from my ministries that the police are implementing laws. So here we have two problems to solve: one is that in Kos, the problem has not been solved in time. The man was slapping, the autopsy came out, it showed that there was a problem, which could have been dealt with, but the employees, who are in your responsibility, have licked. As far as Corinth is concerned, the problem that arises is the application of this unfair law, which simply burdens you in the sense that you are a member of a government that imposed this law, where administrative detention is going for thirty-six months for the offence of illegal entry into the country, while remaining in the eighteen months even for murder if it does not proceed to trial. So what measures have you taken in the pre-Advanced centres so that there is psychological support and psychological vigilance in relation to these phenomena? I'll tell you what I'm interested in, Minister. It is well known that we have a completely different view. We blame you, not you personally, the government for this behaviour. You blame SYRIZA for his own behavior, which is intersectional. We're not going to solve this today in the House. I would therefore ask you to avoid what is commonly done: who will blame the other in more words and with more power and to stand up to what concerns us and hopefully you too. What measures have been taken to avoid repeating such phenomena? So, what medical support and medical vigilance are being given to the pre-retirement centers of your responsibility? What psychological vigilance and psychological support is provided or will be provided from here to the pre-regions centers of your responsibility? And the last question is whether there were any jurors of administrative examinations, whether they were closed and whether responsibilities were attributed not only to the concept of punishment, but above all to the attempt to avoid such phenomena in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Muzala. The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Mr. Economou, good morning. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, before I come to the substance of the timely question, I would like to thank the honourable Member, Mr Musala, for the spirit of cooperation he has shown, when a few days ago I informed him of the impossibility of government commitments - I was out of Attica - to attend the House when this timely question was originally scheduled for discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, the issues to which the Government is invited to provide clarification are as follows: on the one hand, on the handling of the police services responsible for investigating a suicide and a death of foreign nationals detained in the Korinthos PROKA and Kos, on the other hand, with regard to all the initiatives taken by the Head of the Ministry of Civil Protection in coordination with the relevant ministries and other bodies, with a view to improving living conditions in the PREC of the country. On the 27th of March, a Turkish national, who had been held there since 10 February 2020 for an administrative expulsion - return. As of 31 March 2021, the Police Directorate concerned has already been ordered to carry out a sworn administrative review to investigate the circumstances of the event, which is under way. For his part, after being informed by our service, the Citizens' Ombudsman has decided to attend the inquiry of the case by giving specific instructions on its conduct as a National Succession Investigation Mechanism. Finally, the criminal arm is undergoing preliminary investigation, and information on the outcome of the ordered autopsy - morgue is expected. He was initially arrested by officials of the Hellenic Coast Guard in the new port of Igoumenitsa, because, having entered illegally on the ground, he attempted to get out of the port of Igoumenitsa, possessing false travel documents. He had been transferred to PRECA Corinth for further administrative detention - treatment, and to him a return decision had already been issued by the responsible Thesprotia Police Directorate. The self-defense had applied for international protection, which had been examined and for which a decision had been taken to a second degree by the competent refugee authority, which had been served on it in mid-January 2021. It is worth noting that the self-sufficient during his detention had access to medical services and related surveillance by medical staff of the anonymous health company, from which he had been examined eight times. A few days earlier, and in particular on March 24, 2021, a dead foreign national of Guinea was found, who was held at PREKEKA Kos for administrative expulsion - return. In the context of the examination and follow-up by doctors and psychologists of the psychosocial stage, during the first reception of those who enter illegally on Greek territory, it had been found that the deceased had been subjected to an automobile operation in 2018, was considered clinically healthy and unaffected, at which time he was led to PROKEKA Kos. The provision of medical services was permanent both at ProKeka Kos and at the General Hospital of the island where it was transferred in mid-February, where it was found to suffer from propellants between muscles, without any need for hospitality. He was enrolled in a medical treatment, as was the case in his last examination at the PRECH medical office on 24 March. A total of eight times during his stay. It is worth noting that a preliminary administrative examination by the relevant Directorate-General for Regional Police, which is under way, has been ordered since 29 months and the Citizens' Ombudsman has been informed of his own actions, on the ground of competence. For the criminal part of the case, a preliminary investigation is conducted by the Police Department Kos on the conditions of death, while an autopsy has been ordered. As established by the competent medical service, death occurred as a result of obstructive mercy. Finally, the case-file which has been formed, finalised and will be submitted to the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office in the near future. For the fullest information on this House, I would point out that the deceased had been arrested on 29 January 2021 for illegal entry and stay on the ground. He remained in this structure, as a deportation-recognition decision had been issued by the Second Dodecanese Police Directorate, while his application for international protection had been rejected as unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Economou. Mr. Muzala, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u35	Minister, I sincerely have waited for you through the well-known way in which you handle many issues, that I would have some more specific answers. That's what I'm worried about. I am concerned that I have not received the answers that the deaths need, which the Ministry of Civil Protection intends to take, in order to avoid such phenomena. You know, Minister, the reason someone was arrested doesn't care about his death. The one who died in Kos - with necropsies now - cried for three days, slain out of ileus. I'm a doctor. I know that thing. I've seen it in my life. What measures are we going to take? I don't care if he broke in illegally. I've never accused you of being in the pre-export center. He was right. What measures are we going to take, that is what should be the concern of a Ministry of Citizen Protection, which guarantees the lives of the prisoners, and I did not get any answers here. I must say that you mentioned to me and unleashed to me all the actions that have been taken. In relation to the performance of responsibilities, I personally believe that there will be no. But you did not tell me what I needed to know, in the sense of the Member, in the sense of the citizen who believes in the rule of law, which is what measures are to be taken. There it is probably a punishing procedure for people who have exceeded their duty if they have exceeded it. That'll look like it. But what steps will be taken so that we don't have a human prisoner who is slaughtering three days and not going to the hospital? You're saying there was medical care. Apparently, he was inadequate. The result was inadequate. My question, therefore, is what measures will be taken to ensure that there is sufficient scope for any prisoner, regardless of the size of the crime he has committed - and here and here, and I, know that the crime that has been committed is illegal entry, it is no more, it is illegal entry, a specific crime, which is called, namely, persecuted - whatever he has done, not to find such death. Death is not justified. So please very much, if you cannot, at another stage, tell us what measures you have taken or intend to take, so that we do not have the repetition of such phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Muzala. Here, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u37	On the occasion of your question and those you have made in the Chamber on this subject, Mr Mouszala, I would like to focus on some very specific points, at least in relation to the competence of the Ministry of Civil Protection, to which you are asking your question. Firstly, at the Headquarters of the Greek Police, orders have been issued and sent to the competent authorities in the direction of zero tolerance on issues of violation of the human rights of foreign citizens to expulsion living in PRECA. Thus, the obligation to protect life, respect for human dignity, non-discrimination, torture and any inhuman or degrading treatment and punishment are ruthless priorities for the security forces. In the context of the possibilities, of course, in cooperation with the other competent bodies responsible for health services, we do everything possible to ensure that the best health services are provided to those who are there as far as possible. Secondly, in the area of our responsibility, six PRECES operate in Amydaleza, as you know very well, in Tavros, Corinth, Drama, Xanthi, Kos. Member of the Government remains the decongestion of these centres and the upgrading of the services of temporary foreigners there. Thirdly, there is constant cooperation with non-governmental organisations and bodies to secure the safe living of these aliens. At the same time, in relation to their medical care, in detention centres you know that they have been entrusted to the Ministry of Health Anonymous Health Society, to the work of medical care services for psychological and social support, as well as to interpreting services. At a practical level, foreign guarded persons are first examined at the detention centre’s office. If there is a more complicated incident, a police escort is transferred to a newspaper hospital or to an appropriate nursing facility. Fourthly, you raise an issue regarding the time limit for detention. You know, however, that according to the provisions of Article 46(5)(b) of Law 4636/2019, the periods of their booking are not related to the ceilings of the guardianship. However, it should be noted that in any case of extension, the decisions in question are transmitted to the administrative court which it judges and the legality of the decisions. However, on the occasion of suicide, it should be pointed out that foreigners in these centres are kept at the expense of expulsion-return decisions. These guarded foreigners come from countries where it is possible to return them, while embassies from these countries located in our country are working together to issue travel documents. Therefore, we are not talking about political refugees, but about economic immigrants, about the issue of their detention. Finally, and on the occasion of your question, I would like to assure Parliament, on behalf of the Ministry of Civil Protection, that it is clear that the mandate to respect human rights in the PREC and to provide the best possible health services, while at the same time, in terms of living on them, concerted efforts are being made in line with the international standards, especially the European standards, for such centres and we are constantly upgrading the conditions under which those who are there live. For example, important improvements have already been made in several PRECs, while other projects are currently under way to improve their living conditions. This is an important parameter of a highly complex issue managed by the government with adequate and effective responsibility from the first few months. Our policy is complete, solid and, as the Prime Minister himself pointed out, it moves exactly where national sovereignty and international legitimacy are divided with the humanism and the rights of refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Minister. Have a good day to both of you! Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-14-S1-commons.u39	With the consent of the House at 10.21 p.m. the sitting on Monday, 17 May 2021, at 16.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions. Thank you very much, everyone, in and out of the Chamber. Good weekend, the Virgin Mary with you, good morning!
