ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Special Session of the House for the Memorandum of Memorial of the Greeks of the Sea. At today's sitting there will be five minutes from the Bureau, on behalf of the Government, for the Vice-President of Ms Panagiotis Pikrammenos and for the Members appointed by their parliamentary groups. Today, it is a hundred and two years since the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism, a black page in our history, which remains unjust to date. The Holocaust of our Pontian brothers was one of Turkey's most brutal crimes against humanity. An irreversible wave of brutality with prejudiced persecutions, torture, murder, coercive projects, disasters, plundering, displacement and an irreparable humanitarian disaster that counts the three hundred and three thousand lost souls. Irrespective of the victims who have either been sentenced to death, or who have been sentenced to live a terrible and horrific life. A sad addition to the long list of methodological extremism of the East, ending with crimes against Cypriots, Asia Minor and Armenians. To date, the official Turkish leadership has continued to stubbornly deny the Pontian Genocide and with impediment to it ranks it as the side-effects of a troubled era. On the other hand, we over the years have sometimes been lukewarm and sometimes strong, we have claimed, restored the historical truth and our victims. The occasional appeals in the international community have encountered a variety of reactions. On the positive side, we can credit the recognition of genocide from Armenia, Cyprus, Sweden, from nine states of America, from parts of Canada and from certain federal units in Russia, as well as from the Netherlands, Austria, South Australia and New South Wales. Unfortunately, the plenary session of our European Parliament is at the opposite side when the attempt to recognise the Genocide was spectacularly voted against. Of course, regardless of occasional reactions, we must never forget that history may be slow but does not forgive. We have seen this recently through developments in relations between the United States and Turkey. The start was made with the successive slaps of President Biden to the sultan, who started with the blockade of Turkey by the production of F-35 fighters and culminated in his decision to proceed with the official recognition of the Armenian genocide. In this context, which was obviously based on other selfish motives, we might be able to incorporate our own attempt to claim the recognition of Genocide and Pontian Hellenism. Of course, it is clear and self-evident that we cannot control the current balance of power in an equalisation of interests between the United States and Turkey. However, we can take advantage of developments by promoting our own fairness by drawing up a single and solid proposal for the recognition of Genocide and of the total losses of Hellenism at this stage. We are in a favourable position to make use of the restoration of historical truth, because if we do not fight it, no one will do it for us. Today more than ever we need unity towards a common legal demand. We need to keep our memory alive and our future firm, so we must move with honor and stubbornness in the fight for the justice of our ancestors no matter how difficult the outcome is, no matter how much we have to fight, because, as an old Pontou cognitive, the law of no matter what position or power is always to be restored. And that is our national orientation. So let today be not just an anniversary, but an opportunity for unitary action. Now is the time for a new national effort with wisdom, understanding and consensus, because we all have to stand up and be proud of our history. We owe it to the generations that have gone, but also to the ones that come. On behalf of the government, the Vice-President of Ms Panagiotis Pikrammenos takes the floor for five minutes. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 1994 the Greek Parliament unanimously established on 19 May a Memorial Day for the Genocide of the Greeks at the Asia Minor Point. As the Vice-President of Parliament has already said since that distant and clear day of 19 May 1919, the day that the plan for the total extermination of the Greeks of the Sea has already been put into practice, a hundred and two years have already passed. In those three hundred and fifty - three thousand Greek Pontus Christians were destroyed. Eight hundred and fifteen villages were excavated. Thousands of thirty - four churches were destroyed. Nine hundred sixty schools were demolished and four hundred thousand our outdated compatriots arrived in free Greece. They left behind a culture of about three thousand years old, a culture that blossomed for about eight centuries and offered mankind critical thought, research, politics and science. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to say that President Biden's decision to recognise the Armenian genocide is an exceptional fact for the following reasons: First of all, he puts the word 'genocide' into the world debate. Secondly, it indirectly recognises the genocide of all Christian populations in the east. Thirdly, it lights the green light and other governments to take similar steps. And fourthly, it gives us the opportunity to take advantage of the issue of the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou. President Biden took the first step. I'm sure others will follow. Because history is our identity, the history of the Greeks of the Pontus, the Thraces, the Greeks of Asia Minor is the same. Because the Genocide of the Greeks of Pontou is for all of us, it is for Hellenism, the basis for for forging our national conscience. Because the genocide of the Greeks of Pontou is not only a Greek issue, it is a global issue, such as the holocaust of the Jews by the Nazis, such as the Armenian genocide. It's a matter of humanity. We must resist the obedience that suits those who have committed crime and who are now trying to distort history. Ladies and gentlemen, our strength is our history, our roots, our national minds, the unblemished Greek soul and the Greek spirit. And I close by saying "Romania, if it passed, blossom and bring more." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u3	We continue with Mr Savvas Anastasiades on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, like every year, we are honouring the national Parliament this year with the anniversary of the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism. International treaties attach special importance to this year's anniversary and show us the way. Today it is well known that geopolitical interests in the region explain why what happened at the time. The interests of Germany, which played an important role in genocide, but also the policies of England and France, which encroached on Hellenism in the Asia Minor trap, like the policy of the Bolsheviks, are the explanations of what has happened. These were the moral perpetrators of the genocide crime. What exactly does it mean when we say we honor the memory of the wronged? Say two, three touching words in memory of the dead and the uprooted? Can we send our statements a message to Turkey? Don't forget our roots and history? All this, of course, but not just that. As the third and fourth generations of the slaughtered and the dead on the marches of death and the "male taboo", as descendants of these uprooted refugees, who left their bodies on the floors, but they kept their souls we owe much more. Ninety-nine years after the completion of the Greek genocide of the Pontian people, we political representatives of the Greek people as political expressions of the Polish and the entire refugee Hellenism must take the big step, plan, organize, serve a plan and achieve the international recognition of the genocide of the Greeks of the Potto, Asia Minor and Thrace, analyse and understand its geopolitical aspects. Because the issue of the recognition of genocide is a strong political one. The juncture is excellent and perhaps the opportunity is unique. It is no coincidence that the US President's statement recognising the Armenian genocide by the new Turks has now become, a century after that time. It is noted that the resolution, which was voted on by the House of Representatives and which was put forward to the President for decades, did not pass by the House because it did not allow the interests of the two countries to do so. It is now because American-Turkey relations are at a very bad point and recognition has come as a response to Turkey on a number of issues such as the Kurdish, Syria, Libya and, above all, relations with Russia. Nor is the recent report by State Department on human rights in Turkey, and the reference to the three recognised religious communities, which are systematically discriminated against: the Greeks, the Jews and the Armenians. It is no accident that he speaks of suffocating restrictions and unfair pressures at our Ecumenical Patriarchate. The US report also hit Turkey for the desecration of Agia Sophia and the Chora Monastery, for their conversion into a mosque, which is a direct attack on Orthodox Christians. All this confirms the bad American-Turkish relations and sends a message to Turkey. It is also no accident for the Twit of Benjamin Netanyahu five days ago in answer to Erdogan, which says: "You are not local in Anatolia. You came from Central Asia and committed genocide against the local Greek Christian population. Istanbul is actually Istanbul and you understood it illegally. You have illegally occupied northern Cyprus, northern Syria and Kurdistan. Turkey was founded on a genocide of Greek Christians." This has also been done now, because relations between Israel and Turkey have recently been bad and have deteriorated since Turkey's open support to Hamas. Turkey, violating every international treaty, with a behaviour that is no different from the attitude of the kemalians and with the timeless tolerance of the Great Powers, managed to eliminate almost completely the Hellenism of Constantinople, the Hellenism of Asia Minor, the Hellenism of Eastern Thrace, the Hellenism of Imbros and Tenedos. He managed to invade and enforce occupation in half of Cyprus for about half a century. And now he's threatening us in the Aegean, in the Eastern Mediterranean, in Thrace. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot remain inactive anymore. A hundred years ago daily telegrams were reached on the violence of the Turks, evolving in violent, cold murders, white death, extinction, genocide. But then, some closed their eyes, folded with a blanket so they wouldn't listen to the screams of death. The internationalisation of the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism is not only a matter of respect for history. It's not just about the past. It is much more about the future of Greece and our region. It concerns the peaceful coexistence of peoples. It is about prosperity in the Eastern Mediterranean. Just a year ago Kyriakos Mitsotakis as Prime Minister talked about genocide and said the state would promote its internationalisation and global visibility. It was the first courageous public intervention by Prime Minister of Greece. The Prime Minister's message today is in the same direction and we thank him for that. In this climate, by expressing not only the thousands of Pontian Greeks but also the agony for the future of our country, I believe that it is time for Greece to take advantage of the international situation and bring the issue of Genocide to the forefront of diplomacy and political communication. Now that the world is aware that more than a hundred years ago Turkey committed a crime against humanity, now that the international climate is heavy on it is the time to talk about our fairness, to stand up to circumstances, to move smartly and collectively, to exploit the incredible potential of universal Hellenism. Now is the time to include the issue of the international recognition of the genocide on the Greek diplomatic agenda, so that it will now be officially placed in foreign parliaments and governments, as the small and weak Armenia has done for many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u5	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u6	I shall conclude, Mr President. The unfair demise of the unrighteous will continue to be our strength, the power of thousands of Pontians, but also millions of people who want and expect justice, democracy, peace and harmonious coexistence. Because the fight for the international recognition of genocide is above all a struggle for these universal goods. History has justified that assessment. Our country, the country that gave birth to democracy, must take the lead in this by means of actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u7	Thank you. On behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance, my colleague Mrs Olympia Telloridou will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, "I am recognizing the old and my heart is meddling. Kraut, beware of my day, and my gum is fascinating." And this is because the recording of history in our collective memory is not just from a mental processing, but from hard experiences, from the narratives of our grandparents who have not forgotten and have always nostalgic homeland, from the silence of our grandparents, who did not want to remember the insensitive pain. It is that collective consciousness, which has shaped our particular mentality, a psycholysm that stems from knowledge of the devastation, violence, death, extermination and uprooting. It comes from the awareness of the refugee's location and the subsequent experience of discrimination, racism and the margin with the Kalamaria and Makronisos pitfalls. But it also goes from stubborn to life, hope, struggle, pride and creation. Our people, who lived on the opposite side of the Aegean and created a great fountain of Greek culture, may have witnessed and lost their ancestors, but never lost their dignity and self-respect. Throughout his historic journey he stood at the top of the debt and responsibility towards both his ancestors and his ancestors. From 8th B.C.E. century left his mark, from Diogenis, Straboon, Bessarianon, Athanasios Athonite, Xifianos, Snow White, Nikiti, George Bankoudiou, Alexios Konninos, Ypsilantis until martyr Nikos Kapetanidis, served the principles and values of Greek and European culture. This great journey of Pontian Hellenism within the centuries of history attempted to block the Turkish establishment at the beginning of the previous century. We Pontius, together with other Christian peoples who lived in the Asian territories of the Ottoman Empire, were victims of the first organized genocide of the 20th century. And may have chosen the 19th May as the Memorial Day of the Genocide of Pontius, but the beginning is in 1913, when the young Turks founded the infamous "Secret Service" and the "Period and Immigrant Installation Office". In the period 1914-18 it became the first phase of genocide by the new Turks. On May 1919, with Kemal's landing in Samsonda, the second and most harsh phase of the Pontian Genocide begins with three hundred and fifty - three thousand victims. This reveals history through a multitude of sources, not only Greek but also from Europe and the United States. It is clear that whether we are talking about Genocide from the gangs of Topal Osman, or whether we are talking about the slow and martyr extermination of the Pontians with the battalions "blue tabour" was a conscious, centrally designed, organized and executed genocide of the Turkish regime, which aimed to create a "clean" state free of unwanted allies and strangers. The Greek Parliament in 1994, at the initiative of the then Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou and unanimously recognised Genocide. But he did so a long time later, seventy years later, when our brothers Armenian from the very first moment organized a fair claim, the universal recognition of their own testimony, recently recognised by the President of the United States. Turkey continues to deny the criminal past and at the same time uses as a tool the drama of millions of new refugees, extorting Europe to extract geopolitical and economic exchanges. Our country is at the heart of this review policy. We have a duty to defend international law and human rights. In this historical context, therefore, recognition of the genocide of Pontian Hellenism is not simply the fulfilment of a moral duty, it is a political statement not only about yesterday but especially about today's and tomorrow's world. Global recognition of crime, the condemnation of nationalism and the repulsion of false - history is a precondition for peaceful coexistence in the modern world. Today, we, the grandchildren and the bishops of those who witnessed to Pontus, do not seek revenge, seek justice of our ancestors. We are a force of memory, language, solidarity and democracy. Today does not belong to parties, it is not for controversy. However, I would like to stress the unmoved position of our party in the creation of a museum of Pontian and Refugee Hellenism in Thessaloniki on the site and on the exact extent, which the original planning for the Pavlou Mela camp, as our President Alexis Tsipras announced. The government must make available a decent space, which will be the ark of our history and our culture and not change the original design. This is the duty of all of us in the face of the generations of the future, who have the right to know historical truth and to go to tomorrow with self-awareness. Ladies and gentlemen, as Pontius, I feel the burden of responsibility and of serious history. Mr President, reminiscent of the history of Pontian Hellenism over the centuries, I would like to tell you how I feel: "I am, if I have insects even had an effect on pain. I go forth the ungodly, and walk for all the time." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u9	On behalf of the Change Movement, my colleague, Charalambos Kastanides, will speak from the 1st Region of Thessaloniki. Here, Mr. Castanides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u10	I grew up listening, usually at night, to the low-speaking fiancées of my grandmas for the loved ones who were lost and slaughtered in front of their eyes. In the short time I met my grandparents, I saw that strange silence of their own, heralded in their own self-speaking, sometimes exceptionally cast off words and names loaded with bitters. I later realized that it is happening to some people not to reveal the deeply injured memory, but sometimes implied by the fragments of the language. You understand that my relationship with the Pontian Genocide is experiential and because it may be that the thrill does not allow me to speak from the breasts I have decided to submit myself to the discipline of a text. Genocide is a crime against humanity for that, and it is unreserved. A genocide can occur twice, the first time as an event and the second as an oblivion of the drama. This risk was attempted by the Greek Parliament, when in 1994, on the initiative of PASOK MPs, recognised the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou and established as a day of remembrance on May 19th. In other words, it was not only the legitimate obligation of the state to recognize the blood river and the sacrifice of a community of Greeks, but also the solid national belief that within the silence of oblivion you are rooted out and thus vulnerable to ignorance the nation is unable to define the roads, which he deserves to walk towards the future. It is not easy to describe the barbarity suffered by those who have been lost and those who survived, the extermination of three hundred and fifty thousand souls with almost all the means that human radioactivity can devise, executions, inventions, endless marches of death, the work classes. It is not easy to describe the image of thousands of unscrupulous dead, the change in river flow from stowed bodies, hardships in snow or liquor. Let younger generations keep three images deep in their hearts and in their memory as a guide to their own national debt tomorrow. November 1916, in the town of Kerashunta many Romans are intimidated by persecution in their villages and cities, in the hope of greater protection. The Ottomans gather adults in the church of Agios Georgios, and whenever the number of gathered persons exceeds two hundred fifty persons, they are deported in an unknown direction. Infants and children are delivered to the nostalgic Chets, which carry them to the beach of Kerasounda and crush them among the rocks of the coast. December 1917, Austrian consul Kvitovski describes in a telegram to the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs the advent in Samsonda of a Turkish captain, who is blurred by the massacre, urges the military commander of the region to stop the massacre, which the Turkish forces are provoking against the Pontian inhabitants of the wider Pafras region. The deep night of darkness never allowed us to know the fate of the Turkish captain. Image third, Santaya mother is forced to sacrifice her baby so that her crying does not betray the position of persecuted female children and old men hiding in the woods. An incredible trauma to the collective memory of the Pontius genus. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have the requirement, nor do I maintain the illusion that a new-Ottoman could follow the shocking and, at the same time, teaching example of the gorgeous Villa Brad to apologise for the holocaust of the Jews. I have, however, a requirement for the Greek state to take the lead in the struggle offered by the Polish organisations around the world to be recognized by international organisations and foreign parliaments by the genocide of Pontian Hellenism, as happened with the Armenian genocide. I have the requirement that the Greek state be included on the agenda of its official diplomacy requests, arising from the tragedy of the Pontian Genocide, such as respect for and tradition of historical relics. I require the Greek state to have the historical truth that if the Jewish holocaust is condensed in Auschwitz's image, the Greek genocide of the Pond is condensed in the dramatic wording of the Polychrone Enecides "Auschwitz in flow". Remember his dense, historically accurate and painfully revealing description: "The genocide of a turk is a buffalo, wicked, oriental, has no theoretical background, but rather practical plaiting. The so-called deportations, exiles of the entire villages, those extermination routes in the snow of women's children and older people - men are already in the work battalions or in the army - naturally do not lead to any Auschwitz with evilly organized mechanisms of the natural extermination of people. Oh, no. But it was an Auschwitz in flow. People were dying on their way, they weren't walking to get somewhere, no, they were walking to die of hardships, coldness, hunger, human humiliation. That was the evil system, wickedly organized. There was no Auschwitz at the end, because for most of them there was no end. Their journey to death was death, not the end of the journey."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. On behalf of the Communist Party of Greece will be given the floor by MP I Thessaloniki, Mr. Ioannis Delis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is looking at the future with confidence that anyone who holds the exact knowledge of the past, who maintains his historic memory unclean. That is why we must not forget and we must not forget those who have lost to the terrible genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus in the years of their violent and barbaric uprooting from their ancestral homes along with other minorities. We honor their memory, but we are also taught a lesson about the conditions and causes that led to this disaster. This violent and barbaric uprooting of the Greeks of the Pontus, and other minorities from the Black Sea regions a century ago, cannot be fully interpreted unless it joins the historical, political, social context of the period, if it is not illuminated, i.e. the historical background of that period. It was imperialism at that time, in the early 20th century, greedy ever since for the markets, which led mankind to World War I. At the same time, and in conditions of prolonged decomposition of the Ottoman Empire, the national urban states of the Turks, the Arabs and the Armenians in the Near East, as well as the southern Slavs in the Balkans, were formed and developed. The historical mixture was explosive to the peoples of the region and was even more dangerous because of the choice of the Turkish bourgeoisie to force the process of forming the Turkish nation - state. So the Greeks of Pontou had before them all the Turkish bourgeoisie, which, with the generalized and designed blood flow, sought to displace Greek capital for it. They, unfortunately, had to face them, as it proved - and if it did not appear so clearly - and the Greek bourgeoisie class, which, with its political staff at the time, ruthlessly used the populations in Pontto as a diversion and as a means of pressure for its own competitive interests, leaving them at the last critical moment in their luck. And those who paid for it, of course, were, above all, poorness, the people. In this context, then, the historical and geographical context also occurred the planned persecutions of national minorities and, of course, the Greek population, as well as other populations at the time, in Thrace and Asia Minor. But have these urban classes, like the Greek and Turkish, and other stronger ones in the region today stopped today? Nothing else, the intensity of the aggression of the Turkish bourgeoisie bears witness to it. We all see that our region, the Southeastern Mediterranean, is becoming the field of competition and the conflicts of many urban classes, with the outbreaks of war devastated countries such as Syria and murdering peoples, such as the State-supplier of Israel. So let the Greek people be vigilant, but also all the neighbouring peoples. The result of the policies and competitions of these urban classes in both countries at that time is well known. Hundreds of thousands of people were lost and about one and a half million souls took the way of refugee. And today, as at that time, in the poems of the Pontius, the refugee caravans are on their way for their long and dangerous journey. And today, like then, the conditions of their living are terrible. And today, like then, the refugees have to face their enemies, the patriots, the fascists, and the Pontius know all of this very well. They lived on their own pedestrians. And today, as the imperialist competitions have been facing deadly dangers for the people, the dangers that only the people themselves can escape in their struggle. In conclusion, we want to assure once again the organized mouse movement that in the JRC it will find a solid representative in all his fair claim. And as the thousands of expatriates from the Soviet Union know well, the JRC will always be fighters on their side to the serious problems they are still facing. And as people's traditions are experiential bodies of historical memory, we will continue along with the mouse clubs to claim from the Greek state the support and promotion of the cultural and intellectual heritage and activity of the Pontius from all generations. Of course we will continue everywhere and always support the right effort to international recognition of the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u13	On behalf of the Greek Party, his President, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to all the speakers. I'm half of a podian origin. The other half of Prussa and Iconium, again refugee, persecuted, ripped from the ancestral outbreaks. Emotionally I am too loaded because I, like Harry Castanides, grew up from what my grandfather and grandmother, Pontius, sat on the sidewalk of the house, on the old Mylotopo Giannitson. They were telling me how much it went through. And I remember a stigma between the two, where my grandfather told me that out of the eight brothers, the four returned to Greece, 50%. Four people were lost on the way to metropolitan Greece. Three hundred thousand, eighty-eighty, were the dead. Look, it bothers me another thing. Yesterday I saw the Prime Minister be here for climate change. He came along with Mrs. Gennimata and Mr. Koutsuba, without informing anyone in committee. Early in chronologicals! But today there's no one here. He should be here. Mr Pikrammenos is here you will tell me and thank him for that as Pontius and as Asia Minor. Because it's not just the Pontian genocide, it's the genocide of the East Caribbeans and the Asia Minor. It's the genocide that all Greeks suffered. They're hundreds of thousands of souls. Think about walking to Pontto from here. It's the reverse. Just think of this walk, war, persecution, hunger. Only with this thought can one understand what it means to a man to be uprooted, to be cleansed. What changed from then on to today? Unfortunately, the Greek political system has not changed anything. The Turks do the same. They did the same in Cyprus in 1974. They are now doing the same thing with their neighbouring states. They hunt minorities, hunt ethnic groups. The Turk doesn't change. I won't tell what my grandfather or my grandmother said. It's gonna sound extreme and I don't like it. But they said "as much as you kiss a Turk, you must be careful about what it can do to you along the way", because they had suffered it. They had experiences. But the question, which is being mistaken and should be asked is this. All governments since then, when have they formally raised this issue to the Turkish Government? I listened to Mr Dendia and the New Democracy being taken up lately - and they do well - for what Mr Dendia said in front of the Turks, and it was the first time that a minister got off the road and said something more. When did the Greek government formally raise the issue of the Pontian Miracles genocide from Constantinople in Turkey? When? Tell me. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Why to talk to each other here, the Pontius, and not only the Pontius, to take the video and go to our village, to show it somewhere, because we represent Pontius, that doesn't mean anything to me. He really doesn't tell me anything. If you want to tell me something, the government must now decide when the Turkish Minister for Foreign Affairs comes to Athens on the issue of the Pontius Genocide. Why don't they? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The grandfather, who also knew a few letters, said to me "in the beginning that the Pontus." First the pain! For every Pontius, the pain is intense for every Asia Minor. We're talking about Ponto. Does anyone but the Pontians, I imagine, know what a Point means? Isidos, Argonautic Campaign, Hellenism, colonies, the presence of millennia. An entire entity of Greek to exist thousands of years and to be wiped out in ten years. The continuation of Hellenism by Iolkos, the Argonyist Campaign, Pindaros, Xenophonta, "Cyrus Rivasis", all recorded in Greek history. But when did we find out? When did we really know what a Point means? Where we had the first Greek universities before the revolution yet. How many people know in here? How many people know we had paroles, schools, libraries? I won't say about the High Priest. There's no reason for me to say all this about the Catacombs, you don't have to. But it makes me more disturbing that there are even now ideologists in this House who are questioning Genocide and playing with words: there was no genocide, there may be a form of persecution, ethnic cleansing. There are Greek MPs who say so. Why don't you just sit down and say all this, talk seriously, why this idea, their obsession, or that it is Greek-phobic to defend it? And that's what makes me honest, they're the obsessed, the innovators of history, as if blood even now there isn't. I'm really wondering. Who can talk? The witnesses. The big question, however, to do what I say many times as history scientists, Mr Pikrammene, is this. Because it happened, because it was the Genocide, not to repeat the same mistakes. Because we are repeating the mistakes now, unfortunately. No one dared to say, except one speaker, what the reality was of becoming a genocide, who was to blame. I won't enter Greek - Venizelic, anti-Venezel, royal, etc. - No, no. Then the same people who ruled the country said the allies would save us. Adad's gonna save us. That's what they said. Italian, French, our allies were and they were the first to sell us. For geostrategic, geo-economic, geopolitical - Middle East - reasons, oil that was found at the time, we were all sold for Greece not to grow. Today we are saying the same thing. International law, European Union, European solidarity. If you keep up with the same mistakes, you'll recycle and relive the same story. Example: We do not learn from our mistakes. The moralists - I will speak with the truth - were the Germans who wanted energy, as they now want energy. As they do now, so did they. The generals of Kemal were Germans, who ordered, Mr. Kastanides, that the Hellenism of Asia Minor and Pontou be inherited. Look for history. Everyone was involved in the crime, our friends and our enemies, to slaughter Greeks. Tell me, what does this have to do with today? It does. The aim was ethnic cleansing, a "clean" Turkey, so that Germany could control it for its own interests and it did well. That's her right. But our allies sold us to Adad. The Italians sold us, the French, dumped the weapons, gave them to Kemal, along with the communists who had the alibi, "What were we supposed to do with sending troops to Crimea?" What are we now doing to send an army to the Balkans against Russia? We make the same mistakes. We're friends with NATO, they say. Yes, NATO is doing what it does for me, but they don't say in the Aegean. We did the same, and then, I tell you, we do the same today. We're making mistakes. When a sphere of influence conflicts, the one who pays it is Pontius, Asia Minor, Greek, the ordinary citizen. That's the truth. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So learn from our mistakes. And to close, I'll be clear. And I want to make a few things clear between us, because that's what's missing. I wanted to read some testimonies, Mr Kastanidis, but I will not do so, but I will not testify to the Americans, to testify to the matter, not to the Greeks, who may also have experiences. I won't. Anyone who wants to read history reads. Anyone who doesn't want to know will never know. He'll question until he dies the Pontius Genocide. These are the new Greeks. Our proposal: it is very cheap, Mr Kastanides, ladies and gentlemen, to try to translate and communicate a message. There's the social media. Which government has undertaken to hire Pontius, who know the Turkish language? Because geoculturalism is a tool that can be exercised peacefully to coexist with our neighbours. And speak in Turkish and transmit to Pontus messages. There are hidden Christians today, balanced Pontius. I met in Germany five to six years ago one who discovered from a DNA test he did - there are, I did it too - that he has a Greek root, a Pontian and started looking and found relatives in Greece. Let the House finally organise, someone, the government - that is not expensive - communication in social media about the Greek presence and now still in Pontto. Because there are now names of Greeks, Turkish names that are Greek Pontius. Take advantage of them geoculturally. Why am I saying that? Turkey has done the same for decades and has smuggled a few bad guys to Thrace. Can't we do the opposite? Is it so difficult, Mr President of the House? Five people need six. That's how many you hire, not you. Let's put both of us poster. You too, so we can do the self-evident thing. Social media is obsessed, it's nothing. And point out the Genocide. To know Turkish and Pontian. To influence the inhabitants to live and coexist peacefully with them, the Turks, because with Erdogan we will never find them. With Turkish citizens there is the possibility of finding them, as long as we can convince them what the problem is. So what are the Pontius asking for in addition to this proposal, Mr President, is the study ready, and I can also send it to your office if you like? But I am sick of sending studies and writing them, not to say the word. I send, I send, I send, but nothing really, and I'm annoyed. On the one hand, you say 'you do not make proposals', we make proposals and you do not listen to us. Friends and friends, I'm ending here. The Pontius are asking for some things. I will put it down here once again in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Hellenic Solution submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I hope that the President of Parliament will set up a intergroup committee of MPs - the Pontius are asking for this - so that it is an official body capable of promoting the work, not a communication 'we are doing a commission on the Pontian issue'. Oh, no. The question is to put the matter officially now on our agenda... [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] ...Imbros, Tenedus, Point, when we speak with Turkey. Let's put it officially. It should be recorded in the minutes of the conferences, meetings between the Ministers. I close by saying what my grandfather said and she cried and the Pontius know. "I lost my country, wept and hurt. I am sorry and reluctant to overthrow it.' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u15	And we will close today's symbolic event with my colleague, Maria Apatzidis, from Mera25, MP in Eastern Attica. Here you go, Mrs. Apajidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. "To the time that he shall die, until he shall be in the chariot." A hundred and a half years from the Pontius Genocide, I'm here as one more ripple, to tell you what? I didn't come here to say trimmed things and applaud me or say, as many people say, to leave behind and just look forward. So not Greek and Greek MPs. Today I can't, and I shouldn't be used to the usual. I can't say Kemal wasn't a nationalist or that he didn't break down the Pontius. Nor can I say that Greece welcomed us with open arms. Neither in '22 nor in '90. For today's anniversary to make sense, every anniversary, we must use the language of truth, historical and current. Death then had a name: "blue taboo", the work and extermination battalions of Ottoman genocide, within the sick context set by the Germans and the new Turks. It is unknown even today with how many tens of thousands of bodies of innocent Greeks filled the land of our ancestors' ancestors' land, but the Pontius could not stay with crucifixed hands to destroy them all. The Pontius were born free and learned to give their blood so that they could remain free. The Pontou rebels, with the fronts of Vassil Aga, Koja Anastass, Kurtides and other heroic Pontian captains, did everything they could to defend their homes, women, children and dignity from the bloody blades of the Celtics and the Chets. Genocide did not start from Samsonda in 1919, nor did it end with the hanging of the butcher Topal Osman, Eichmann of Pontian Hellenism. Genocide began by Sultan in collaboration with the Germans and especially with German military advisor General Liman von Sanders. At the beginning of World War I, they laid the foundations for the unleashing of the Pontians. Next, the new Turks and Kemal proved stronger than Sultan in the recipe for nationalism, the planned extermination and the genocide, introduced by the German military in the Ottoman Empire. But the worst came in 1919, when something happened that we Pontius never expected to happen. At the same time that the massacres were intensified against the Pontius and Armenians, who were struggling to keep the fire of the freedom fight, Venizelos had decided to send twenty-three thousand soldiers to Ukraine. Greece never sent an army to Pontto. Greece never sent guns to Pontto. Greece did not even send medicines or foods. All he sent were a few ships to gather the souls of those who survived the hell of the massacre. Why? I ask why, honourable Members. Why did our country treat us like this? Because he even treats us today as second-class citizens, like those who once called them 'Turkish seeds', like those who call them Russians, like those who should never be retired, like those who should always be ghettoed. Why do Armenians have twenty research centres and museums and we, over a hundred years later, do we not have a museum, a research centre for the Genocide of the Pontius? We are not going to be forced by a wise memory that will be disciplined in a politically correct account. That is why we call on the European Parliament to assume its historic responsibility and to recognise as Genocide the systematic and violent extermination of hundreds of thousands of Pontians. We call on it to establish 19 May as an International Memorial Day, sending a strong signal against racist and nationalist violence and mass violence against women. But we know deeply that the European Union will not only do so for one reason. Because the European Parliament never introduces anything against the privileged partner, against Turkey by the Fascist dictator Erdogan. In their capitalism money is always more important than justice and truth. Really, three hundred and fifty-three thousand Pontus souls don't worth more than their balance sheets? We're not going to forget. My grandmother used to say: "Don't let the gum know if I'm resuscitating the country with Pontto!"
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to keep a minute's silence in the memory of the victims of the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Memory eternity! Long live the Pontian Hellenism! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Special Session on the Memorandum of Memorial of the Greek Genocide of the Sea has been completed and a minute's silence has been observed. With the consent of this House, we will be adjourned for a while and will continue with the agenda for legislative work, as you have been distributed. It's 10: 45. At 11: 00, I would ask the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives to be in their seats.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of the Interior, the Deputy Minister of Interior, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, the Minister of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Justice, Maritime Policy, State, Deputy Minister of Finance, Foreign Affairs, Health, and the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection tabled a draft law on 18-5-2021: "Election of Municipal and Regional Authorities". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "Reforms on relations between parents and children and other issues of family law". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 12 May 2021 to discuss the draft law in one - and, if necessary, to make a second - a single sitting on the principle, articles and amendments. In particular, the discussion of the draft law is proposed to take place with a combination of physical presence and teleconferencing service in twelve-member circles, including speakers with the following ratio per parliamentary group: Five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA and one from the other parties. The names of the speakers have already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters and the Office responsible has drawn up a list to be distributed to you. I would remind you that speakers who will be put through a teleconference will speak as soon as the speakers' cycles are completed in a natural presence. According to the number of speakers, appointed by the parliamentary groups, I propose that the House be given a second sitting on Thursday at 10.00 a.m. in the morning for the continuation of the debate on the bill. Today, to have an image, we will definitely go by 21.00' and maybe even 22.00', so tomorrow we can finish this early afternoon starting at 10.00 a.m. in the morning. Addendums will not be accepted unless mutual changes are accepted. I assume I have the agreement of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u19	The House has agreed. Before giving the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Anna Mani - Papadimitriou, I will give the floor to the Minister for a few minutes to refer to the ministerial amendment, so that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives can take it into account. I don't give you time, Minister. I'm sure you'll be brief. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday we have known the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Justice. It concerns current issues, which need to be resolved in this year. I think that all the rapporteurs and special speakers of the parties have seen it and are in your mind. The amendment has seven articles. The first article introduces the ten organic staff posts at the Ministry of Justice to serve the statistical directory, which, in essence, we had adopted on a previous legislative initiative. The second article reduces the time-limits to be met by the judicial officers who will occupy the seats of Vice-Presidents, President and Prosecutor of the Ice Bay. For what? Because there is, essentially, the completion of the mandate of eight senior judges and it is impossible, on the basis of the time that, to date, it seems to be possible to make the choice from the yearbook. That's the only reason. The third article deals with the definition of the term of office of the already members of the independent authorities. It has already been legislated that a member who replaced another in the middle of the term is, in essence, chosen for the entire period originally chosen by the members. And this particular arrangement extends to those who in the recent past were precisely selected in this way. The fourth article essentially regulates the vacancies of peace. You know that even this year, until we have the first series of peacekeepers from the National School of Judges, we have to, in a way, cover the positions from the list of successful ones. Therefore, this legislation is provided for. In the context of the need for emergency measures to protect public health against the risk of further dispersal of the coronary, the fifth article allows a suspension of up to 31-8-2021 the obligation to pay fees, offences and contributions. The sixth article deals with problems identified in the staffing and operation of the management teams of the IACC. It is an issue that has, in essence, been institutionalised by the previous government. We are trying to deal with some strings, in order for this period, which we are moving very quickly in the digital age, to be able to regulate all these issues. And finally, with the seventh article, we are dealing with the question of the management of the volume of cases, dealt with by the prosecutors of economic crime. Basically, they will be entrusted with the issues that are of serious criminal value. There was, unfortunately, every case, which was about an issue in the public prosecutor's office of economic crime, so that there was a very large increase in the volume of work and that the cases, which have one, really, very great interest, can also be dealt with at the speed of the case, but of course also with the presence of the people who should be involved in the public prosecutor's financial crime. All this will be incorporated as an additional, essentially, chapter in the bill. I think that these are matters of legal nature, which we will come back to during the debate. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u21	I should like to inform you that since Merra25, Mr Claus Gregoriadis, on behalf of his party's parliamentary group, has objected to unconstitutionalism. ‘The Merra25 Parliamentary Group shall, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, plead unconstitutionality in Articles 5 and 13 of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice “Reforms concerning relations between parents and children and other matters of family law”, as Articles 2, 5, 21, 25 and 28 are violated.’ You need to fill in something, Mr. Gregoriadis. We've indicated it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u22	I therefore propose that the rapporteurs and speakers speak and then that the objection of unconstitutionalism be discussed. The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Anna Mani - Papadimitriou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Mr President, before I place myself on the bill, I too would like to refer to the day of today, the anniversary of the Greek genocide of the Pontou, a day of sad remembrance for all Hellenism that lives one of the most inhuman and appalling pages of history. In my place, even in Pieria, there are thousands of the Greeks of Pontus who settled after Genocide and their violent displacement and are today one of the most dynamic and creative parts of our local society. I, therefore, also honour today, with respect and excitement to the thousands of victims, the anniversary of the Renaissance of the Greeks of the Pontou, and strongly condemn such acts of appalling barbarism. I believe it is our duty to safeguard the memory of the victims so that such crimes against humanity will not be repeated in the future and to restore historical truth. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis is a government which tackles the problems face to face and gives solutions without calculating any political costs, let alone when the problem concerns the lives of thousands of children as in this case. Furthermore, the Minister for Justice, Mr Tsiaras, has repeatedly pointed out at committee meetings that the reform, which is introducing in relation to relations between parents and children, has been a matter which has remained for years in the Ministry's drawers. Since, in fact, this is a very sensitive social issue, the bill was formulated after having been placed in the public consultation for a long time, it was introduced for processing in the House without any pressure of time, and at the hearing of the bodies there was a double number - twenty-one overall body - to present their views. The great interest in society was confirmed by the many comments submitted in the public consultation of the bill. Fourteen thousand eight hundred twenty-one comments were posted on the relevant website, more than all those submitted in the last bills. The scale of the problem, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that. We all know that the judiciary and many times and police departments are shocked by the conflicts of parents, former couples, who are engaged in conflicts centred on their children. It was therefore not possible for that government and the Ministry to indulge in this major social issue. The same view was expressed by the representatives of operators, particularly the representatives of the legal world, who agreed on the need for the reform, because they themselves stated that a legal practice has been created which does not comply with the current conditions. That is what the rapid increase in family differences in recent years is witnessing in the courts. Indicatively, of the nineteen thousand ninety-nine cases brought to trial in 2016, we reached only four years in 2019 in the fifteen thousand eight hundred sixty-three cases. This reality is today regulated by the Ministry of Justice with a bill of a clearly pediatric section, establishing the almost self-evident, that is, the joint exercise of parental care by both parents in case of termination of the cohabitation, divorce, annulment of the marriage or termination of the cohabitation agreement. Having always been at the core of the child's interest, the bill introduces five innovative reforms to which I shall briefly refer. First reform: the joint and equally parental care of both parents is introduced for the first time in the event of separation. Parental care shall be the duty and right of the parents and shall include the custody of the child the management of his or her property and his or her representation in any case or act or trial concerning his or her child or property. So for all these critical issues about their child’s life and upbringing, both parents now have reason. From no point of view of this provision is the introduction of compulsory public custody, as several members of the opposition have mentioned. The next provision clearly provides for the possibility for parents to derogate from the rule of co-responsibility for parental care and to regulate differently, otherwise, the specific issues relating to parental responsibility. If they disagree, they shall first appeal to mediation and then to the court. There is therefore no horizontal mandatory application of the rule of public custody, since derogations from it are expressly laid down either by consensus or by decision of a court. Ladies and gentlemen, the reason for this fundamental change is the child's real interest. As we have heard from the institutions, all scientific studies have come to the assumption that children, who are growing up with the physical presence of both parents, are children with fewer problems, children with more balanced growth, who are able to cope more easily with the difficulties of life, become more easily integrated into society and achieve more. After all, a similar legislative framework in the exercise of parental care has already been applied successfully in all the Member States of the European Union other than Bulgaria, which is now moving in the same direction. In addition, particularly important innovation is the introduction of the statutory joint parental care by both parents and children who were born out of marriage, if they have been voluntarily or judicially recognised by the father. I note that it relates to quite a large number of children and effectively abolishes anachronistic discrimination in children in and out of marriage. Second reform is the introduction of the fighting presumption of one third of the child's minimum communication time with the parent with whom he does not live, so as to ensure increased communication and quality time for the child with both parents. As I have said several times, the presumption is combatable, so it is a country's return, and the judge may deviate from a third and determine less or more time of communication if they impose reasons on reasons relating to the conditions of life or the interests of the child and provided that his daily life is not disrupted, such as school, extra-school and social activities. Provision of the provision is particularly important as it ensures the stability of the child's life and, by extension, his mental equilibrium. And in any case this is a very balanced arrangement based on reason and always with compass the interests of the child. Besides, I think we all agree that ensuring a minimum of communication with both parents is very important first of all for the child itself for his personality and for his psychosomatic health. But for parents too, it can be a basis for dialogue and consultation in order to limit as little as possible tensions and litigation on communication issues. The third reform of the bill is to promote alternative methods of resolving family differences, including mediation. Parents will be able to regulate the specific issues of parental care for custody and communication first by written agreement between them. If they do not reach an agreement, they will be addressed to a specialised Ombudsman. In fact, because it has been said that some parents may not be able to afford, I would refer you, ladies and gentlemen, to Law 4640/2019 of mediation, which also applies to this case and provides for the benefit of the financial patients. I believe that the institution of mediation will help if not all of the parents to manage their separation peacefully, to avoid ruthless judicial battles, conflicts and extremes, which hurt the souls of their children. This is also one of the main objectives of the bill, namely strengthening the culture of consensus and finding solutions in a peaceful way so that all cases are not reached in courtrooms. Fourth reform of the bill: For the first time, objective criteria for the misuse of parental care are laid down which, if the judge finds that he can even remove parental care or custody from the parent responsible and only entrust it to the other parent, or even to a third party, if it requires the interest of the minor child. The criteria, for example, include unjustified refusal to pay food, the responsible violation of the judgments and agreements of parents, the burglary of the relations of the child with the other parent, and the definitive condemnation of the parent for domestic violence or for crimes against sexual freedom or for crimes against the economic exploitation of sexual life. A number of objections and reservations have indeed been raised here. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, think that the Greek judge will not take into account all the parameters, if he decides? Will it not take into account all the facts of each case? I have complete confidence in the fair judgment of the Greek judge who will appreciate any real incidents in the formation of his judiciary. What the order simply does is provide the judge with a basis, some extra legal instruments, that is. Besides, the judiciary officials, who will avenge family differences - and that is how we get to the fifth and perhaps more important reform of the bill - will have attended specific seminars and educational programmes. The seminars will be conducted by experts who have dealt with the issue, such as specialist psychologists, sociologists and social workers, as well as teachers of higher education institutions and judiciary officials. The contents of the seminars will include international conventions, in particular the Istanbul Convention to prevent and combat violence against women and family violence. It is doing so - and it is certain that the results will be positive, and that the representatives of the bodies have also expressed - that the training of the judiciary in the new forecasts and social needs will only have positive results. What is noteworthy, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, is that your contribution to the parliamentary dialogue was limited only to trying to degrade the bill. Your only proposal that was positive was that of establishing family courts. Your only proposal, which was positive, was that of establishing family courts. An excellent proposal, but at the moment, at least directly, is not objectively applicable. In any case, SYRIZA's colleagues on this matter should first make their own self-criticism. Not only did a family court set up for four and a half years, but they did not dare touch this sensitive social issue, which we dared to do today, nor even dared to train judges with special training seminars. This government, however, dares and takes an important step towards helping and contributing to the resolution of family differences and one of the very positive steps is the introduction of training seminars to the judiciary. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the dialogue that has taken place with the social actors, parties and society has lasted for more than a year and a half. Comments, objections, comments and proposals from various bodies throughout the public consultation process, and most of the proposals from the official bodies were accepted by the Minister, as did representatives of the bodies themselves. Indicatively, the final text of the bill incorporated major remarks from the Citizens' Counselor, the National Committee on Human Rights and the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, which I mentioned in detail in my previous position. So what one cannot dispute is that this draft law, as has finally been formulated, is with certainty the result of a fruitful and exhaustive dialogue, a product of the composition of the views of civil society, expressed in a record of participation in public consultation. In view of the above, ladies and gentlemen, it is a real pity that, as far as it seems, we have not finally managed to go along with this great reform, which, as I have already pointed out, has no party mark at all. And the truth is that at least some opposition parties would expect a different attitude. You know, no matter how much time we talked about, endless hours of meetings we had, there would always be places where we would have different opinions. That is the magic of dialogue and the essence of democracy itself. Likewise, as well as well-structured to be a bill of such nature, it cannot in advance determine the behaviour of separated parents. What is trying - and I repeat - to do this bill is to lay a basis for dialogue and consultation between divorced parents. I appreciate - and I will say this once again - that, after the proposals made by our institutions have been incorporated, our disagreements are minimal and not capable of directing you to vote against the bill, a bill with an exclusive social and human sign. At this point too, because today's sitting takes place in Parliament, in which all the Members take part, I would like to address all my fellow Members separately, calling on them to see the bill in its real dimension, namely as a genuine effort, aimed at improving the interests of the children of divorced parents and developing a culture of consensus. Because I believe - we all believe - that people who have shared a small part of their lives can neglect their selfishness and change a page based on the good of their children.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u24	Please finish, Mrs. Manny.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u25	I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote in favour of the government's legislative initiative, not only as a majority rapporteur, but above all as a mother, who has grown up two children and I firmly believe that a child is growing more properly, more balanced, when he has the presence in his life of the care and love of both his parents. We must not forget that children are our present and future, it is the most valuable thing for parents, society, our homeland. And I will repeat - and I am closing with this, Mr President - what our Nobelish poet Odysseus Elysses "Mixed place is the wise and the children given is the same but Infinite!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u26	The rapporteur will now take the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Theophilos Xanthiopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is 19 May, and the memory and thoughts of all of us, and of us who are refugees of pontian origin and of all people, runs in the clear day of destruction and genocide of Pontian Hellenism. It's a painful day, but it's also a day of reflection. In pursuit of ethnic cleansing, Turkish nationalism has made sure that it is devastated from the footstep earth for thousands of years that people of Greek conscience have been inhabited, and that it creates the trauma of modern Greek history. We do not forget, and we know that each one's diversity is a prerequisite for the survival of all of us. Let it be the last genocide that has occurred in the world and sincerely as Pontius and as a granddaughter of refugees I fully share the drama of people who are unraveled at their homes. As far as this bill is concerned, Minister, a new incident comes every day to add to this painful process of voting the bill. I would like to point out to the whole House - it is very interesting, ladies and gentlemen, and I am going to refer to the individual articles during my dentistry - but I would like to highlight the trick that emerges in the bill from the report of the Scientific Service of Parliament. Minister, there is a very serious problem here, and your colleagues must see it. For while you are not a legal person, but you are surrounded, I suppose, by authoritative lawyers, and you really cannot choose according to the beam and the sack as it serves you, ignoring international obligations of the country, supranational texts, the Civil Code, jurisprudence, and by the method of chopping to bring a bill that has insurrected society in general, it has divided the citizens, men and women. I - and I imagine all my fellow Members - have a lot of pressure because there has been a mistaken impression in the world. And thirdly, there is the objection of the scientific community, which is essentially absolved of the bill. If I do not take into account the flaming fires, which have been tabled with ten amendments in the last few years and the reluctance - in order not to use another word - of the Members of the Chamber to support the bill, which, at second reading, no Member from the majority took the floor, I understand, very well, your loneliness in the cabinets. So you need to redirect your thoughts. You need to rethink what you brought and you need to rethink what choices you make and whether it is in the right direction. We are all very well aware that there is an issue in Greek society. This letonian ratio, about 90% diligence in mothers and 10% in fathers, who communicate with their child two weekends alternately a month and no intermediate day, is a problem that we have to deal with. Either the attitude of judges, the case-law as established, or the logic of a minor effort, repeats this phenomenon. However, the answer to this phenomenon is not the draft law proposed. A very substantial debate is needed, which the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice has not taken care to coordinate, but has strongened the climate with the exclusion of women's organisations from the legislative committee, and then ignored, provocatively, the finding of the prefecture committee, made successive changes which have in many cases altered this conclusion, which could be the basis of the debate. We are arriving in plenary today, having had an exhaustive debate and having shown all the contradictions and all the mistakes in the targeting of the legislative initiative. I will no longer insist on the criticism of the bill, but I shall draw data from the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. Really, with great interest, I will hear substantiated answers. Because this is not what we in the SYRIZA do not say about the rest of the Opposition, they do not call them feminist organisations of five and ten people, as the government majority claims. He says it is the most competent body. Here too, you are due to radical and substantial answers. I come on page 5 of the articles. Under Article 1(b), since the purpose of the bill in accordance with Article 1(b) is to serve the best interests of the child, more specific or international conventions such as the International Convention on the Rights of the Child - you did so by adding it the day before - or the European Convention on Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Here, in chapters II and III he makes a detailed remark that for us lawmakers only matters, but by nailing the lion, shows how carefully you legislate. It should be noted that the provisions of the Civil Code are not structured in numbered paragraphs. Since Chapters B' and C' are part of the Civil Code, for reasons of legal unity the same structure should be adopted and the number of paragraphs removed. Mrs. Kefaliannis said so and she's right. It's detailed, but it's indicative of how you approach the process. In Article 5, on which an objection to anti-constitutionality was lodged, in the best interest of the child, served in particular by the effective involvement of both parents in bringing up and taking care of them, in addition to the smuggling you made and replacing the "primarily" with the "in particular" and forced a group of Vice-Presidents to invoke dictionary, to show you that "primarily" and "in particular" have the same content and gravity, to get into the essence of the subject. The analysis of the article concerned and the explanatory statement refer to the interests of the child and not to the best interests of the child. The term 'child's best interests' is obviously based on a translation of the term 'child', which essentially confers the existing concept of the interest of the child. The term ‘family interest’, as specified in the caselaw, appears not to be receptive. Therefore, the introduction of the term ‘best’ may require clarification as to whether it introduces other than verbal, serological and substantial conceptual modulation. In the specialisation in paragraph 2 of the vague legal concept of the 'family interest' - here, there has been an entire debate and we insisted that the judge is by definition and by nature vague legal concept and that the judge comes to specificity in the adoption of the decision - he says the Scientific Committee: 'This specialisation seems to be binding on the judge in any case, because it is not specified that these criteria are taken into account, as with the parameters set out in the following paragraph'. In paragraph 2 of 1511, therefore, reference is made to the fact that, in accordance with the maturity of the child, the court makes a reference - in order not to bore the House - to recast paragraph 4 of 1511 in the sense that, depending on the child's maturity, it must be called upon and taken into account before any decision on parental care, not if that decision relates to the interests of the child, as laid down in your regulation, but on parental care and interests. It is further noted that the interest of the child is a vague legal concept, which, as mentioned above, is also protected by supranational rules. We have previously invoked the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. As a vague legal concept, the interest of the child is specified in each particular case by evaluation criteria, which are evaluated, other than by the findings of psychology. The Court is therefore given the opportunity to give it different content, in this case, in the light of the specific nature of any legal relationship between the subject. The judge's judgment must be formed, taking into account all the facts, without being decisive as a single criterion. The relevant judicial judgement must be specifically and thoroughly justified. Article 6, on which there was a great deal of talk in the debates before, on whether or not the mediation was compulsory, the above-mentioned non-prohibition of compulsory, alternative dispute resolution procedures, including mediation and compromise, does not appear to be in line with Article 1 of the draft law, which stipulates that the provisions of the bill cannot be considered to justify non-compliance with the obligations arising from the Istanbul Convention. Therefore, the express prohibition of mediation in cases of domestic violence as standardised in Law 3500/2006 and Articles 312, 330 and 333 of the Criminal Code. Let us now go to the major issue he has dealt with, employs and, unfortunately, employs society, to Article 7 and to the famous 'equality'. The term 'equivalent', which has been added, requires clarification. It could first of all mean 'equivalent' in the sense that parents have an equal contribution to the exercise of parental care. This is a fundamental principle of family law. We have asked that you remove the definition of 'equivalent'. We asked you if you insist, to replace it with 'equivalent', because 'equivalent' has a qualitative dimension, while 'equivalent' has a quantitative dimension. That's what the Scientific Committee of Parliament says. However, the word 'equal' could mean a level playing field in parental care. In this interpretative scenario, the requirement of equal parental care, which for the sake of consistency, should be explicitly included in the exercise of parental care in the marriage cohabitation of their parents, would have been introduced in the context of the dismissal of parental care. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] What do we need witnesses? It comes the most competent one, which no one can call for party bias and tells you what we all call together. And if you want, I and the political leader agree. Take a decision and say: "For us, the view is that it must be equally" and be tangled in this matter for who is right and for society to judge if you or we have one. However, by saying that 'equal' does not agree, it does not involve, it does not conceal the possibility of reaching what the Scientific Committee of the Parliament says is hypocrisy. In conclusion, it would be appropriate to clarify the conceptual content of the word ‘equivalent’ in the proposed regulation. Otherwise, if "equivalent" does not define anything different from the common exercise of parental responsibility, the removal of the word. Am I insisting? Can I give you another pain? Honestly, I do not understand why you insist on keeping this extremely problematic expression, 'equivalent', since you realise that it creates mistaken impressions, according to your own approach. Eliminate her. And if you want to leave something, we have proposed that you put 'equivalent'. It follows that, in the case of the famous right to information, the law in force in 1513(3) provides the parent to whom the right to information has not been exercised. The right is about serious issues. The parent who does not exercise parental responsibility has the right to be informed. The comment: ‘The introduction of an obligation of prior information to the parent, by whom the child does not reside, by the other parent with whom he resides, in relation to the usual and urgent acts, i.e. obligations for the parent with whom the child resides, to inform, although parental care is taken together, constitutes an unequal treatment for the parent who is required to inform the parent who may not, under conditions, comply with the objective set out in Article 4 of the Constitution’. Immediately it makes an anti-constitutional crisis for this provision. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And it continues to "... whose ability and adequacy of parental care seems to be questioned at first instance, and, as a rule, minor issues, which may also be briefed later." I will end in a minute, Mr President. In Article 12, I relate this to the previous one: ‘The need for information on the property of the child is neglected, since by definition he is involved in the management of the child, while the other parent must not give the relevant information.’ As far as 1/3- is concerned, I shall end because I think that the rest will also be discussed in our speech: 'The main purpose of the right of communication is to satisfy the feeling of love between the parent and the child and to avoid alienating them'. It is logical that the right to communication is restricted where they are necessary in order to protect the interests of the child. The limitations imposed by the court may refer to the place, time of communication, the presence of third parties or even consist of special measures, in accordance with the circumstances. It goes without saying that exclusion is not about the right, but about its framework under specific circumstances. If they change, the matter will be re-ordered. It goes without saying that the exclusion is the result of the depletion of every effort, in order to exercise the right without restrictive conditions or under specific restrictive conditions, and that a permanent exclusion can only be imposed when but timely limited measures are not sufficient. In conclusion, the exceptional nature of these measures in conjunction with the different effects of the restriction on the exclusion of the right but also the over-legislative safeguarding of the right of communication requires the application of different and classified criteria for the restriction in relation to the exclusion of the right, provided, of course, that the principle of proportionality is applied. Finally, the famous article 14 on the final sentence would be better legal - and I and other Members have repeatedly proposed it - to be replaced for domestic violence with the words 'for the offences provided for in Law 3500/2006 and Articles 312, 330 and 333'. I have concluded, Mr President, by using only the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, to tell you that it is not just society that reacts. The scientific community is reacting. In this plea I make and is now in common knowledge of all the wings of the House, Minister, you realise that you must take drastic measures. This text, which you have brought, has very serious legal and legal problems. It complicates relations, creates tensions, increases the focal points and does not help to sort out and address the essential problem that I have mentioned. We are in favour of conscientiousness, not forced, not horizontal regulation. We are in favour of effective communication of parents and children. This legislation, which is being introduced, is acidifying and exacerbating the contradictions, despite confronting them. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Xanthopoulou. Good morning, me too. As for today's Memorial Day of the Pontian Genocide, which we honor, like every black page in history, we have one to tell my Pontius friends in and out of Greece - because I had a phone call from Stuttgart. We will fight until the final right, which is the international recognition of the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou and the international condemnation of Turkey, because we believe that only then will the souls of our wronged brothers be quieted and new genocide prevented. Mrs. Nadia Giannakopoulou is called in Stepma from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to begin today's speech on today. Today, May 19, 2021, we complete a hundred years from the extinction of the Greeks of the Pontius and the Pontius in total and bow with respect. We bow with respect to their memory, in memory of the three hundred and three thousand slaughtered Pontians, who our historic debt and the minimum duty require that we keep their memory alive. In the bill, ladies and gentlemen, now. I will start my speech on a third occasion with the following encouragement to the Minister and now to the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, that I wish this debate on this very sensitive subject had taken place under other facts and that all the wings of this House today would be here to support the changes to be made to family law. Because, Minister, I have said this on several occasions in all my committees, one is the truth. No one, but no one can be against, can be against the joint exercise of parental care after the end of the marriage. Everyone prefers a divorced couple to raise their child with common care and responsibility and conscientiousness suggests and underlines both to the child and to the social group of parental responsibility, in addition to disagreements and offending of conflicts, for the good of the child, while, if you like, it also involves a high, symbolic, social, personal and emotional value. So this bill, which you are bringing, Mr Minister, could be a very good opportunity to modernise certain provisions and to improve, in accordance with new social conditions, since the last reform was carried out in 1983 by PASOK and by Andreas Papandreou. It was the most progressive reform that had been carried out and indeed, I feel very happy and proud of my resignation, because the wings in the Greek Parliament, as well as the bodies in their hearing, recognised the enormous importance of that reform, which, among other things, provided for by 1983, that parental care would now be exercised jointly by both parents, unlike the past, where father and husband were the completely dominant one. It could also be that the bill that brought us to be a very great opportunity to further incorporate provisions of the Istanbul Treaty, which was signed ten years ago to prevent and combat violence against women. But, unfortunately, the bill, which you bring, loses this opportunity. It does not manage to respond to new social needs and conditions. It does not manage to keep the interests of the child at the heart of the new regulations, as family law should be. The problem - we have said it many times, ladies and gentlemen - is there and it is undeniable. Because of the particular misinterpretation and application of the law, a serious social phenomenon has arisen, that of the exclusion of one parent, usually - yes - of the father, from communication, from custody with his child. And the situation, of course, can very badly affect the psychological condition of the child and its later evolution as a person. The administration of justice, yes, so far it has been done with a blind model, if you wish, of blind dispute, without encouragement of negotiation and, as a rule, without the expression of a special opinion by scientists, by experts, and thus human relations leading to a dead end. Unfortunately, however, this bill cannot in any way be described as reform, in any case at all the way it is now. We invite you up to the last minute to listen to us all and make changes. This bill as it is now cannot solve the problems. Your legislative initiative had to act as a major challenge for radical change and for more effective solutions to the judicial approach. There is the problem, Mr Chiara, particularly in the procedural context of the application of family law and these so sensitive issues. The joint exercise of parental responsibility - this is the risk of so-called conscientiousness - must be a basic principle of family law in the interests of the child, of course, except in cases of abuse or inappropriate behaviour of one parent. So conscientiousness has to be a responsible one, it has to be a consensual one - to be able to function - a choice in favour of the best interests of the child. But what happens when it's not agreed? Can it be enforced in a mandatory manner? Can it be imposed with numerical molds, as attempted? Can it be imposed by arbitrary quotas of the 1/3 style? And while you could take a positive step with this bill, unfortunately, you are taking a meteorological step. You have not managed to avoid distortions or wrong forecasts, which have caused very reasonable reactions from legal and scientific circles. The main thing is that there is no procedural guarantee of exactly how it will be implemented in practice - there is the problem, Mr Chiara! - without the prolongation of the dispute and the proliferation of the relevant trials. That's the big thing! In short, the good intentions in politics - and we all know that, ladies and gentlemen - have never been enough, as they must always be accompanied by realism and holistic and not selective, as you do, reformist boldness. And with this content, and in particular the presumption of the distribution of parental care with the entirely arbitrary 1/3, you are expected to create much more problems than you are calling on to solve. What did you do? And we have constantly denounced it in all the committees. First of all, you have decided to ignore the Legislative Committee, which you yourself set up to resolve the matter. You did not hear the legal committee, which took part in judges, lecturers, lawyers and other scientists. You admitted that you actually re-written this draft law on your own, and it is quite obvious that most of the objections have been raised by members of the committee itself, such as the one-third-year presumption, which was voted against by the committee with 15-3. And the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament is a stumbling block - a real trick! - for what you are bringing and how you have tried to justify what you are bringing to the previous committees. So today you come and tell us and move our finger, Mr. Chiara, that we must consent. Of course we want to agree, but to what? In something that you refused to consult with civil society, did you refuse to consult with bodies that are the object of supporting and protecting victims of domestic violence? Imagine not having the Greek "Me Too" what you would do then! You tried not to consult with judges, lawyers, psychiatrists and other scientific bodies. And it is unacceptable that the institutions themselves have come out of you and you have been denied, Minister, when you have said that you have been consulted with them and as it is written falsely and untruely and in the report on the consequences of this law. The Paedopsychiatric Society of Greece, as well as institutional women's organisations, denounced it with public intervention. And the Citizens' Counselor and the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, who are regularly mentioned for their alleged support in your bill, expressed serious reservations about the problem articles in the bill. Why? Because you chose to trade one side, only on one side, only on the lobby of the divorced dads, and to bypass all women's organisations. It is not by chance that eight European and international laws and hundreds of four women's organisations, bodies and collectives from thirty countries - from thirty countries - are calling for the Prime Minister to withdraw this bill as extremely dangerous, and I would like to present it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantina Giannakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would also like to mention your satisfaction at the huge number of comments in the consultation, as you said. Mrs Giannakou said so too, all the Members of Parliament who spoke to the committees have spoken. It is at least comicotragic to refer to these comments, when the vast majority of them were identical, which sent carrots - copy - paste - and simply came from different users. Is this really worth reference to drawing conclusions? As far as the substance of the draft legislation is concerned, Article 1513 states that "they are continuing" is false, untrue. You have to delete it and we have asked you and we ask you to do so and we still ask you to remove the word 'equivalent'. We told you, the agencies, all the agencies and the Citizen's Counsel. You're told by the Legislative Committee. You were told by the Scientific Service of the House. I wonder why you're not listening. Because everyone, but everyone, told you that this is how you enter through the window the mandatory, equitable contributory, parental care. You are the only one, the only one, who insists that this is not the case with "equal"! This obsession creates very serious questions, Minister, and call on you to give serious answers and not to escape. For 1520 and the 1/3 presumption of the whole year, which was voted against - I repeat - with 15-3 by the Preparatory Committee, this fact - did not make you think about it? And besides, I told you that "closed" is used in legal science - you, okay, don't need to know, your consultants don't know that? - for the diagnosis and recognition of legal consequences or facts which give rise to it, not for the purpose of establishing rights and obligations. In addition - and the Scientific Committee of the Parliament tells you - what is the total time and how the judge in question will choose? Here it is. Here it is! Don't make such big legal mistakes that, unfortunately, will have huge consequences. With regard to Article 14, I have analysed it in all my previous positions, and in this article we shall be giving a clear conclusions. As far as domestic violence is concerned, you are exceptionally asking for something so serious, which is the top priority of the Greek society and is supposed to be your Government and is supposed to be the Prime Minister of Mr Mitsotakis - even though what you are bringing, that does not seem to be the case - you are therefore requesting, in exceptional circumstances, a final judicial decision, leaving minor children in the mercy of offenders of domestic violence from two to five years. The Greek part of Amnesty International rightly raised it - and it must be heard in this Chamber - the particular issue that arises especially with women refugees, with immigrants, with women asylum seekers, stressing that these mothers, especially with this article, are being called upon to face a huge problem for them in a very complex judicial system with very high legal costs and major gaps in interpreting services. I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantina Giannakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will take some time, as much as my previous interlocutors have spoken, please. Minister, we must even now ask you, and we will ask you to do so until the last moment the debate takes place in plenary, to draw up the draft law again and before it is too late to be the institutional position, which you have to protect our country, firstly, because you will be faced with violations of many international conventions and regulations such as the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, such as the European Anti-Fraud Rights Directive, such as the Istanbul Convention, which is being brutally violated by Article 1532. I told you that the holistic approach to this issue should be comprehensive and should be based on the threefold 'prevention, support, assistance and treatment'. To achieve this tripartite, a family court is needed. The report of the Society of Family Law after the first Greek-Hellenic scientific conference, which it held in 2013 and the project it prepared, is the best response to you, Minister, that what we are saying is supposedly our Utopian interventions. I wonder and ask you the following question and I ask you to reply to your speech, Minister. Don't forget. Is this report and the draft law it has submitted to you, as the Society of Family Law says? Did you know her? I put it in the Minutes and in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantina Giannakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] For all information, because we are here to discuss this, we believe that this proposal is an excellent basis for discussion on the institutional framework for the functioning of the family court, which we believe to be unsatisfactory and which has been our proposal for many years now. I shall conclude, Mr President. No reform of family law can succeed without the appropriate procedural framework. It must be made clear. The PASOK periodically supported and supports the establishment of this new legal structure, which is the only one that can guarantee the right, fair interpretation of the law on a case-by-case basis to each family, to every child with a lead in the interests of the child and the family. We have worked out a political proposal for the reform of family law with a key element in establishing a family court, for which has already been drafted since 2014. The New Democracy, unfortunately, after 2012, in the context of then-conflict, did not allow this reform to get flesh and bones. Unfortunately, SYRIZA and the subsequent governments continued to do so, although they were aware of this proposal. So we are coming back today. We ask you personally, Minister, to take this very seriously. We reserve very little time to table a proposal for a law on the issue of the creation of an organised, modern and effective structure, because only so can a solution be given to personalised, right and fair. Thus only Greece can follow examples of other states, such as the USA, England, Canada, France and Belgium, with great success rates of the extrajudicial method of resolution. That would be a positive, bold reform proposal. What we are asking you to do, we put it before you, but also what we really do, in addition to the mama-Daddy disputes, in addition to the pressure of pressure groups, will be able to do what family law has to do: to best meet the true interest of the child. So I call again on you to take our proposals very seriously, although I regret to say that so far we do not see your willingness to deal with the wrong texts and to adopt the changes that have been made to you by a pool of opposition and the majority of actors. We will expect and be placed in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. For the JRC, it is quite clear that the need for changes to the issues of parental care has matured, taking into account economic and social developments and their impact on the relationship between parents and children. We therefore support the amendment of the provisions of family law for the joint exercise of parental responsibility and for the consultation of the two parents in matters of custody. Our placement has the social needs of the child, and from this point of view it also meets the obligations of parents towards children, whether they are in cohabitation or not. The common exercise of parental care after divorce concerns their joint responsibility, their effective participation in the raising and care of the child, who will, of course, reside mainly with one parent and will have as broad communication as possible with the other. It is also clear to us that it is necessary to enable it to function, to develop this common responsibility for parents in the exercise of parental responsibility and to consult on the upbringing and care of their children, that is to help with the full economic, legal and social support of couples on the side of the state. That is why we are repeatedly tabling our overall proposal. That is why we have tabled three specific amendments today and we propose that you accept them with family support measures in this direction. But what does the government do on this complex social issue, which must really be resolved? In fact, the amendments made by the bill deal only in a formal and not a substantive way with the issue, without taking into account the necessary condition for the changes imposed in family law to be effective. State social support is absent from both current and proposed regulations of family law. In practice, changes may benefit more those who have guaranteed the economic conditions, namely the urban class, the high-paid middle layers. However, for all those who are struggling for survival, for the parturban, who experience on a daily basis the exhaustive irregular hours, a life literally elastic, operate objectively underminingly, not only at the minimum level of agreement that must be guaranteed between parents, but who are standing an insurmountable obstacle to this same essential contribution to the care of their children. That is why we insist that the support of parents and children from social structures and institutions should be compulsory to normalise these conflicts between parents, which will be formulated objectively in the course of divorce and after that. So how do you expect these complex social issues to be solved individually without such scientific and social support? Such a framework would drastically restrict the situation of children who experience the consequences of chronic social problems and behaviour. That is why we insist on the criticism that it is not enough to shape the institutional framework for regulating parental/child relationships after divorce, because this will remain an empty letter when the appropriate supportive state social structures are missing: free consultative and other social structures, such as family and couple treatment programmes before reaching a marriage solution, parental advice, appropriate paedophiliac services, which can monitor, support and intervene in good time in cases where they need, based on appropriate scientific staff, so as to be able to monitor the development and implementation of any protective arrangements. If, then, Mr Minister, as you said at the last meeting of the committee, you recognize this necessity, we invite you to incorporate into the bill the government's obligation to provide young parents with these social services so that they can then proceed with the necessary staff. What do you still refuse to see? The need to create family courts with specialised judiciaries, but assisted by scientists, psychologists, social workers, pediatricians, enrolled in the state network of social services. How else will the interest of the child in declaring the bill be guaranteed when the judge in the formation of his judicial judgment does not have those scientific tools, the necessary opinions from mental health scientists, who in terms of state care in the whole procedure are inexistent, or when the core of the bill strengthens the view that the two parents' efforts to regulate their relationship with the child is exclusively an individual case, without any state support? The same does, of course, apply to today's family law, which the other parties, in particular SYRIZA, the Change Movement, as well as the Mera25, so strongly support, and the need for the operation and support of state social structures, the substantial economic support measures of the divorced parents of the people's family is lacking. After all, this was not the case by the policies of all these parties when they were in the government. How is the interest of the child still protected when the private ombudsman decides to do so when parents who cannot find commonly accepted solutions are pushed? That is why none of the other parties make good on this issue. How could you, after you jointly voted for Law 4640/2019 in the name of the decongestion of the courts from family affairs? You reject what both the Association of Judges and Prosecutors and the Plenipotentiary of the Bar Associations, that such a procedure is not only cost-effective, so it objectively forms inequalities between the parties, but also deprives any guarantees of impartiality available to the judge. You are even forming a vicious circle of conflicts between parents when the bill provides for the possibility of a judge to order a repetition of private mediation when the case is already through this route and has not been able to reach an agreement. That is why we have tabled an amendment calling for private mediation to be completely removed, which in the end can only be undermined in the relationship between parents and their child, when it simply prolongs tensions, adds to them new financial burdens and time, but ultimately the resolution of the dispute deprives them of any impartiality and credibility of the natural judge's judgment. What else did we propose to you, if you really want the bill to function helpfully, to try to consult parents about the common exercise of parental care? To clarify concepts, which eventually create additional interpretative problems and thus new sources of stress among divorced parents. Firstly, what does parental care mean together and equally? How will parents also exercise parental care when Article 8 creates ambiguity and confusion in the concepts of parental care and diligence, which objectively favour different interpretations as to whether this is actually a matter of equal distribution, with all the implications that this has and have repeatedly been exposed? Much more, which in the end the equality of your parents is only typical. In practice, in an unequal society, the relationship between parents and children is unequally regulated on the basis of their social class position. Indeed, the same problems are faced by all parents after a divorce, when economic and social factors have a decisive effect on this process of dismantling the marriage, so that parents can avoid the economic bleeding of a legal dispute or a private mediation that is now foreseen? That is why we are making the parallel financial support for divorced parents, and we have tabled a specific amendment calling on you to accept, with what we have proposed to you for the timely reimbursement of the child's allowance to the parent who is diligent, for tax relief for both parents and for those who have more than two children from different marriages, even if they do not exercise custody for them. At the same time, in view of the fact that the economic problems affect both parents' behaviour both in marriage and when they are in a range, making up either an intensification of relations between them or an economic dependency on each other, we demand a number of protective measures, such as an unconditional unemployment benefit, support for and protection of people's housing, relief from debts and others. We are still wondering what effect this has on parental care can have in relation to the child's nutrition claims, when Article 10, with the proposed provision, provides for the possibility of each of the parents exercising the nutritional claims which the child has against the other parent or third party, in other words, without any interest to whom the child lives, who has his custody. We suggest that the determination of nutrition should take into account the decision to assign custody of the child in relation to the determination of his principal residence and, at the same time, to calculate the needs arising for the parent, who does not live with the child on the basis of its standard of living, income, residence and others. In addition, as a minimum financial facility we propose with the third amendment, which we tabled for Article 4, in the case of consensus divorce, that each of the two parents should not be obliged to cooperate with a lawyer if they agree to their joint representation by a lawyer, as was the case before. Furthermore, the bill in the same standard way attempts with mathematical formulas to allocate the time of the child to the two parents by introducing this fightable presumption of one third of its total time, eventually creating more problems than it is trying to solve. How will such a complex and sensitive issue really be regulated with such mathematical formulae? Firstly, you do not answer how the total time of the child will be calculated. Is it about its total time or only the free time from other social activities, by removing school, sports activities, the school? Secondly and above all, how will the parent's time of communication be distributed when both of you work with the elastic working hours, when you go to completely dismantle working and living conditions with the new anti-Semitism that you bring, with the exhausting and irregular hours? Finally, did you wonder after ten to twelve hours of work, whether parents will be able, not to come to an agreement with each other, but will they eventually deal with their child’s actual care itself? So when with mathematical formulas you try to allocate the child’s time between the two parents, on the substance even for the parent, who does not have the child’s custody, you are replacing the child’s ability to make a substantial contribution to raising his child from finally obtaining a sterile communication time. The common exercise of parental care can take many forms, taking into account various factors, such as the age stage of development of the child, the stage of education, its pre-existing mental state, and the conditions of life and work of its parents. This is understandable that it cannot be achieved with this typical balance of the time of the child, where it actually focuses exclusively on the bill. In this way, the responsibility of parents is eventually fragmented. However, it is also problematic that the government is supposed to set objective criteria, as you say, for the cases of the misconduct of parental care, but only in the hierarchy of specific cases that demonstrate, if you like, the priorities you set for this protection. If, therefore, you really want to preserve the child from cases of the misconduct of parental care, we ask you again, as many of the scientific bodies have done, to propose the cases of neglect of health, the education of the minor, the protection of him from the exploitation of minor work, the abandonment and his exposure at risk. At the same time, of course, it is incomprehensible indeed for the cases of domestic violence or crimes against sexual life to be recorded in the bill as a tolerable period of time for a child to remain exposed during the years of extradition until the definitive condemnation of a parent is judged to be inappropriate to the exercise of parental care. It cannot be an answer to this counter-project, which you are using for the possibility, in fact, of unjustly depriving the highest of that right of the parent in the event of a false suition. The only thing that actually confirms in the most obvious way is that any protectionist arrangements in the bill remain empty without the assistance of the appropriate state social structures that will in practice ensure their implementation. That is why we once again call upon you to accept first of all the amendments we are tabling, but above all to adopt the whole measures of social and economic support for couples, which will form a more solid ground for building up the necessary joint effort for parents to make effective participation in bringing up and caring for their children, while recognising the need for the joint responsibility of the two parents in the exercise of parental care and their desired understanding of the issues of custody, focusing on the needs of the child, and putting us in the first place with the 'parents' in the bill with all the above comments we have analysed. In particular, we call on the parents themselves, especially those who belong to working people, to jointly fight for the universal safeguarding of modern rights for men and women in stable work, with stable working hours and decent working income, with measures to protect motherhood, with full state support and family care, and to protect children through a social public health, welfare and the protection of child's sporting and cultural interests. These are all the necessary conditions, so that they can truly bloom on equal terms between parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. I invite the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Konstantinos Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we're here. It's time. I wish the data were different, but the institution of the family is going through contributors and even in the middle of a sea turbulence. This is something that we all have to accept, unfortunately. And since "the good captain in the fortune seems" it turns out once again that all you can do successfully, Minister of Justice, as government and as a party is to divide. You really do this. And not only do you divide the parties, say: 'What good is going to go, we have divided the parties'. Remember that the parties asked for a consensus before the process began, that is, so much. You have not only divided your own Members - see within you and we will see who will vote for this bill and who will not - you have divided the Greeks. You have managed to divide Greeks once more. You split with the masks. You remember it very well. You're the government of division. You've divided the world with the vaccines. You have divided the world into'sprayed' and 'obscene'. You did this, your government. And now you have divided Greece once again, once again the Greeks, you have created two camps, men on the one hand, women on the other. What complaints have come to our offices, to our e-mails, to social media, the mobiles are not described. Moms who have them with dads, dads who mess with moms, clubs, associations, middlemen, relatives, lawyers, acquaintances, friends, chaos, real mess. But what none of you thinks is that in the middle of this whole story, which you have created, and the orchid, is the child, who is treated like a prize. You allow them to face the child as if it is a tennis ball, the child who once came to the world - and that is to think of all - from two people who were loved and now have come to hate them deadly. And you, instead of building bridges, are tearing down what's left and digging and trenches even deeper. I mean something before I actually get into it. Do you have any idea how difficult the children of divorced families now with the coronary? Do you know that quarantine restrictions often worked as a pretext not to take care of one child or another at home? Do you know how many psychological issues all of our parents will come to the post-incarceration era? This is a time of incarceration that bears your signature. And then, instead of looking at the heart of the problem, you think that with 'bumps', you will give answers. From the reactions and only really your legislation is doomed to failure. I mean, how can it not be doomed to failure? Always like crabs, Minister. To the government, you go like crabs, backwards. Legislation without having the full and true picture of the problem. Who is it, and how many tied couples, how many couples, who have entered into a cohabitation agreement with what this implies - and keep this - how many children are out of marriage? If you don't have a full picture of the problem, how do you go to legislate to solve it? You did so in the bill on state modernisation. We were telling you to do the public's map first and then come to digitize it and modernise it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Without knowing how many civil servants we had, you proceeded to digitize the state. Unfortunately, however, the family - and we say so with soul pain in the Greek Solution - collapses as an institution. It is not the Greek Solution, it is not Kyriakos Velopoulos, it is the investigations themselves, it is the figures, Minister. I'll introduce some inquiries to you today. In Europe four out of ten children - I will reach Greece as well - were born out of marriage in 2018. From the 25% in 2000, we went to 42% in eighteen years. This is an increase of seventeen percentage points. That is what we need to see before we legislate. This figure clearly reflects the breakdown of the institution of the family in the European Union. However, it is also the image of Greece. In two decades the percentage of children outside marriage rose from 4% in Greece in 2000 to 11.1% in 2018. In fact, according to the latest figures, it has increased even further. The reasons why the sacred institution of the family is bleeding dangerously are: daily conflicts, fewer marriages, birth reductions, increased number of divorces, broken families, uncomfortable children. Especially now with the coronary, as I said before, the children are completely alienated from all their activities and it will take a long time to get back to normal life. And of course there are new types of family, these are new fruits - we'll talk about them soon - with the same sex parents, parent 1, 2, 3, 5, 8 and so on. For all this, there are obvious causes, but also insidious, many insidious enemies, Mr. Minister, who dig the pit in the heart of Greece, which is the family. The family, Mr. Minister, who kept and held the Greeks standing in the ten, eleven years of the memorial. This was the difference between Greece and the rest of the states. He had the family, the family, who supported in every way the unemployed, who still cares for the elderly. And we, instead of protecting her, guard her as the daughter of an eye, throw her at Caesar. For the crisis in the family, therefore, it is not only the fast one, the stressful way of life, it is not just the economic difficulties, unemployment and saying, it is not only the hesitation of young people to come to a marriage society or, more generally, the relaxation of morals, where you are now involved and we will talk soon. Where's the Church? Where is the Church in all of this to take place and warmly support family and marriage? What are the standards developed by the media? Don't you see it every day? Storm, they don't miss a chance to show homosexual families, relationships, parent 1, parent 2. Everywhere, a storm every day. Don't you see that? Aren't these time points? Where is the state, which instead of sending a message of support and support to the family, the world family day that we had the other day, you choose - and you will be judged - to be supportive of LGBTQs, which was the next world day. Do both. Why do you reject one? That's what Mr. Mitsotakis did a few days ago. Couldn't Mr. Mitsotakis make a post on the importance of the Greek family on Saturday 15 May that passed us, which was the world family day? Why didn't he? So why did our president do it? Why did Mr. Velopoulos do it? Because he believes it. Now that I have told you in committee, I will say this today in the most official way, Minister, very modern, you are there in the New Democracy. Is your compass broken? Does the north show somewhere else the south, elsewhere your beliefs? For other people, we knew you, but you're doing it. You've completely changed. You're too liquid on principles, traditions and faith. Who would have expected that with New Democracy we would have seen a parent 1 and a parent 2? Who would have thought that the New Democracy would talk about diversity and would have an official post from the Prime Minister and reward it for diversity? Instead of rewarding ability, it rewards diversity. He said it here in the House. Who would have expected that the legislator of New Democracy would have brought a bill saying about sexuality. Regardless of sexuality, you added it. There wasn't any from '84 till today. You added it today. Who would believe that the New Democracy would prevent and vote for a gender change at 16 if you had your god? Who would believe that the New Democracy, the patriotic party, would make an incredible resilience on the issue of the Prespecies and welcome Macedon, a fake Zaev to Maximus? Who would have thought that the New Democracy would follow up on the shitholes and vote for the poppy in the Greek Parliament, which you were taking a year ago? That's why I'm telling you, that's why the Greek Solution will fight for Greece to remain Christian, orthodox and Greek. That is the objective, and that objective only goes through the family. For us family doesn't mean a 1, 2, 3, indiscriminate sex, etc. Family means raising the child with the father, growing with the mother, having as models and experiences the father and mother figure and not numbers. This is something that we firmly believe and is guided and based on the interests of the child, balanced development in a safe, stable environment. You should know that by configured face-to-face, as you are doing here, and regulatory the interpersonal relations of the world, the couples out inevitably where you are going to achieve something you will lose and everything you had. It's a tough project. But there's a compass, our compass works normally, yours ruined. There is a compass, a guide that we all believe - and we really believe that - is in agreement with value and priority. This guidance is in the best interests of the child. Who are the main axes of family law? The orientation of the child, the protection of the child, the protection of his rights, namely his interest. You do not have to be legal to realize that the child and the needs of the child must be the fundamental stone of legislation. In the Greek Solution we firmly believe that the interest of the child is inextricably linked to the family as a concept, but also as a value and as a family, we are talking about the family in its natural form about a family environment that raises the child with father and mother standards. Minister, away from here, we are all saying that we do not want to, but do you divide, that I hope you have a life-threatening anthroposporto to the deep ages, how would you like to see, in other words, as an image - make the image - take the young child to see Mom and be Katerina with Sofia or Vangelis with Takis? You tell me a little bit. Are you gonna be uncomfortable, yes or no? Do yours before you legislate. We're talking about the Greek family standing by the children and what does it do to them? The innate principles, values, ideals for them to become then, these children, responsible citizens, useful citizens in society. This family, this interests of the child, are the basis of our belief, value and not an excuse for us not to pass the bill wickedly. No, for us they are basic values. We don't tumble. We don't change depending on where the wind blows. They are values for us, and we are not allowed to vote for this with what you have in it with sexuality, and we are opposed to the fact that the bill provides for a judicial decision not to discriminate on grounds of sexual orientation. There wasn't that. You put it, the story will write, but the people must listen to it and the voter of the New Democracy who voted. But he did not vote for them, they were mutated along the way, with others you went out to the government and others you do in practice. I would also like to focus on the issues of domestic violence that are very important and here we are very clear again as Greek Solution. When the parent is dangerous to the physical and mental health of the child, the state, Minister, must act quickly, immediately and effectively. This parent must be removed directly from the child. The Greek Solution has said so many times to every tones, we repeat it today: it says no to the sentences "hadows", it says not to the penalties imposed but not to be valued. Such penalties shall not be valued. It is unacceptable and dangerous to see the criminals who have been found guilty have been convicted and a few years later be out again. We ask again for this step once again to be tightened up and we ask for the penalties to be effective. We also remind you, once again, that you also contribute to the proposal by Mr. Velopoulos of the Greek Solution to compensate a Greek family, Myrtus, who passes a golgot, to join the Parliament, to help this family. What are you waiting for? Help this family. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the state, Minister, must really support the family, give opportunities, incentives, and enable it to cope with the difficult circumstances, really give incentives to create a family, not now distribute any crumbs. Have we solved the polling with two grand on the first birth? Is that it? Is it over? That's just how it solves the demographic, that huge problem? I participated on Saturday in a meeting that we had with the third parties and people asked for self-evident. Do you think the having three children are too tense? Three? From two children upwards, says the Greek Solution, they are multiples, and we need to support them. Of course, for the Government of New Democracy, from what we see, a solution to demographic and genitality is 'blocking', as the Prime Minister said, with the illegal immigrants who come to our country. That's what you want and that's your goal. You said it in here, we didn't say it, we heard it with our ears. We have said before that the problem of birth is very serious, we must tackle it seriously, with responsibility, away from voting purposes. The Greek Solution wants us to reproduce Greek DNA and not mutated DNA. The Greek Solution wants to bring our children back here to Greece and make their families here. The Greek Solution wants the Greek Orthodox family to take the place that she deserves in Greece tomorrow. And the Greek Solution will succeed when it takes your place and it is time to rule this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Heta. The Special Rapporteur of Mera25 Mr. Angeliki Adamopoulou is called in Stepma. Immediately afterwards, the objection of non-constitutionalism tabled by Mera25 will be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today's bill could well bear the title 'as easily understood'. And I say this, because you strongly protested that both of us as Opposition and eminent officials have said that with this bill you are actually going to establish compulsory conscientiousness and alternating residence and you said that this is nowhere to mention in the bill. Indeed, Minister, this kind of argument, because it is funny and fun, makes sense to be heard in a relaxed café discussion between friends or between classmates in the courtyard of a school, but when we talk about such serious issues, such arguments also insult the importance of this issue and our intelligence. You know very well that a bill always has a certain morality, it has a specific political aim. The issues that the law goes to regulate have a specific political direction, a specific orientation. First of all, it is clear from the provisions that you are going to institutionalise both the compulsory conscientiousness and the alternating residence, because we have told you that this "equivalent", which refers to the joint exercise of parental responsibility, is very problematic. Why do you not replace it, in any case, by 'equivalent'? It is obvious that it establishes the same, the alternating, in any case, residence. What you are saying to us, this argument that they are not referring to within this bill, is that we are told that tomorrow, when Mr Hatzidakis brings the labor ruin with the bill, which is to be discussed, he will have to protest, because nowhere in the bill mentions the words of a working-gather, a working-century-century-industrial-industrial-industrial-industrial-industrial-industrial-industrial-industrial-industrial-industrial-industrial-industrial-industrial-industrial-industrial-industrial-industrial-industrial-derm, or when Mrs.Keramedoux came with a bill and abolishes some university-sector-sector-based, yes, it will not be mentioned anywhere in the bill that public-free education is being destroyed, or when Mr. These arguments show that the Ministry is squeezing you and with you the entire government party is squeezing. And that - I repeat - we have not only told you, you have also been told by your own members. If anyone, who has nothing to do with the Greek reality, listened to the statements made by Mrs Giannakou and Mrs Kefaliannis, would say that they do not belong to your party, in your own party, that they belong to the opposition. This shows an unbearable, truly loneliness of the Ministry, and indeed impressive was the reluctance of the Members themselves of the Governing Party to come from the Step of the House and support this bill, when the incredible hammer was falling, the unforgettable hammering by the Anti-Population. Even today I counted that there are about thirty New Democracy MPs who will talk about the bill. Of these, the two are against the bill, so in total they will speak for the bill twenty-eight. This embarrassment of your own MPs, Minister, doesn't it tell you anything? You also told us, as another argument, that the success of the bill is apparent from the number of comments in public consultation. In other words, you assess yourself and the bill from the multitude of comments, apparently trying to tell us that bills that have fewer comments are of lower quality or lower level. So the question arises: How do you and some defenders of this bill who also attack us on Facebook have you measured the fourteen thousand comments and have you seen that of the fourteen thousand more are positive? In other words, you should devote at least two hundred and thirty hours to making this statistical record. Obviously, this is a good argument, as is, of course, the presumption of one third of the communication you are establishing. Never, ever, ever, any serious legal order has thought so sensitive issues to regulate them in terms of mathematical equation, as Mrs Giannakou said, with fractions through the laws. Never any serious legal order thought of dealing with these issues through morality, through Solomon’s cynical eye, with Solomon’s solutions. And when, of course, a serious legal order did not think of going into family law the methodology of the practice, of guilt and of inherited law. You treat children as if they were parents' acquisitions, as if they were bank accounts, as if they were apartments, as if they were fields, which parents should share. And diligence and communication is for you as if they were part of the acquisitions. It's not like that. Children are autonomous, are independent, inexistent personalities, with particular psychiatrists, with particular emotional needs, living in particular conditions and should be treated above all personalized. And, believe me, I got it from my diplomatic work when I graduated to human rights. Because my diplomatic work was about the rights of the child, the current theory in science is the theory of the will of the child, that the child's opinion and will of the child should be taken into account, not only when determining his needs, but also when forming his rights in the legal order. And yes, children have the maturity of knowing much better than whatever their needs are and what their interests are and what is the best for them. Even manipulating things, they realize, very well, who the right parent is. That is why we are telling you that the attitude you have on children is proprietary, it is criminal, you have taken the whole matter very wrong from the outset, and unfortunately it is wrong for all the central philosophy, the central spirit and your targeting of this bill. Minister, were you disturbed at the first meeting at the outset when I said that you were overwhelmed by some voices, which are basically what they are doing? They are promoting their agenda through this bill, targeting and threatening judges, threatening and smuggling lawyers and, of course, they have thrown too many millions into campaigns and lobbing. You did not expect, however, that exactly the same would have been said to you by your own members, nor would you expect that videos are being moved on the Internet with representatives of such groups, who say: “All this family law firm realised that it cannot do anything to Chiara via lawyers, through gay and through reasoning and what did they do? They fired the heavy artillery. The heavy artillery was Mr. Gerapetritis, the Minister of State. He was convicted to cast doubt on Mr. Mitsotakis about the alternating residence. The second part was the parental alienation.’ 'This' - and I quote -'Mr Tsiaras fought it very much at a teleconference with the Minister of State and with Mr Mitsotakis'. 'Along with' - says - 'the bill is completely annulled. I am telling you this not by information - it says the person who writes it - 'but I was almost in the front'. So you want this bill to start over and go down? I mean, Minister, I'm asking you this. Are you interested in these pressure groups being present at discussions with the Prime Minister and Minister of State? When you met these meetings, did the Prime Minister and the Minister of State know that they were present? Did you bring the Family Law Company to these meetings? Did you bring women's organisations? Did you call the members of the Legislative Committee whose work you canceled? Did you bring social workers, pediatricians to listen to what you say to the Minister of State and the Prime Minister, or did you only bring those who are caught in the act to admit what we are saying, that with this bill you are going to establish the alternating residence? And even though the gentleman I mentioned to you said you were passionate about parental alienation when I mentioned it, you were annoyed. You were disturbed when I told you that you were going to bring parental alienation syndrome as a normality, even though it is a pseudo-science highly dangerous, which no science recognizes as a diagnostic tool. You were disturbed when I read to the members of the committee concrete statements and reports of that theory of pseudoscience, Richard Gardner. I'm going to submit to the minutes today this 15-page list, which I said, with statements from this psychiatrist. I will not repeat what I said in the first place. I'll say some other things. So he said that paedophilia can enhance the survival of the human species, serving productive purposes. "Pedophilia is a widespread and acceptable practice among literally billions of people." In addition, Gardner believes that many different types of human sexual behavior, including paedophilia, sexual sadism, necrophilia, zoophilia, fascism, can be treated as practices, which are worthy of perpetuation. Sheep and zoofilm will eliminate birth, according to this gentleman. It is therefore not justified to exclude from the list of so-called physical forms of sexual behavior. Gardner suggests that the kids want to have sex with adults and they might seduce them. If the sexual relationship is revealed, the child is likely to fix the facts so that the adult is accused of starting. Sexual abuse is not necessarily traumatic, he says. The determining factor for whether sexual harassment will be traumatic for the child is the social attitude towards these meetings. Keep the child connected to the villain, he said. Particular attention should be paid to avoid alienating the child from the harassing parent, because the removal of a child-friendly parent from the home must be taken seriously into account, since all attempts to treat paedophilia and the family approach are vain. Tell the child that a father's sexual abuse is normal. Nothing's good or bad. It's the thought that does it. Gardner even blames the father's abuse of the child for not fulfilling his sexual desires. It therefore suggests that the healers help the mothers of children victims of abortion to fulfill the men’s sexual desires. You encourage her to stay with her husband. Accuse her and her daughter of sexual harassment by the father. That's some of what he said. I will submit them to the Minutes together with the following. There's a wealth of artwork. The National Association of American Prosecutors and the National Center for Child Harassment, in an update it has made in a scientific journal, makes it clear that the official position of the U.S. Prosecutors' Association is against parental alienation syndrome. It's unproven. It may threaten the integrity of the criminal justice system, the security of abused children. Prosecutors should train themselves for this syndrome and be prepared to reject his acceptance in court. In cases where the testimony is accepted, it is the prosecutor's responsibility to train the judge for the disadvantages of this theory and to conclude that the Ministry of Justice has recognised that this is a pseudoscience, scientifically valid syndrome, which does not fulfil the evidence of scientific testimony. In other words, when there is a parent, the mother, for example, who resists such behaviour and comes to the other parent, the malicious mother should target and incriminate the mother that, as far as I am concerned, she is suffering from the parental alienation syndrome, this syndrome is not acceptable to the Department of Justice of America. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Angeliki Adamopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And let's take a look at the conclusions in relation to this bill. What are you doing? Generally you get the traditional pediatric model, which governs family law, and you turn around to a genocentric model, which does not give the best interest of the child. You come with completely arbitrary criteria, with vague references, but also with a ambiguous language to impose a harmful treaty for children. You take by definition different and very complex cases and put them in the same bed of Provrost and you appear as a pioneer and innovative bill that provides for things that already exist under the current family law. Instead, Minister, to provide for an inclusive and holistic model of personalised management and regulation of family affairs, you are making a horizontal arrangement as if you were imposing a single VAT on products. The question is, what is primarily served by the child’s interest? With arbitrary legal criteria or with the help of experts who will embrace the family, will they listen to its needs and then reach the best possible for both the child and the parents? That is why I have told you from the outset that it is your aim. Here comes and sticks the 'easyly understandable' because when you tell us that what you want to achieve is actually able to give you the existing tools of the current law, then you don't say anything to us. You're not telling us the truth. You do not tell us exactly what you are serving. For example, you tell us that you do not establish the alternating residence when you actually open the door wide in the changing home. You say you won't lead to the deregulation of the child when you finally drive there. You're talking about the child without having the slightest anxiety about the child. You're talking dry about the kid. Your great misery is obviously not the best interest of the child, it is the interests of the few. You are turning the way for a deregulated child, which will become a ball between two parents, will actually breast-feed with the mentality that there are two parents. There is the taxi parent of everyday life and the relaxed entertaining parent of the weekend. And that's why? Let's not be fooled, Mom is the one who takes on everyday life, takes on as a food worker, as a householder, and absorbs the daily tensions of the child's daily life and comes the father, the loose, the fun person who will only be for the weekend, the happy one. So you're actually going to set things up and lead them to a judicial review. There will be an increase in domestic conflicts, and this will have painful consequences, first of all for children. The worst of all, however, is that you are canceling the constant and permanent demands of family law, the gaps in family law, because we see no arrangements, which promote the speeding up of justice, speeding up the administration of justice in family affairs. Obviously, your acceleration is only about getting a house out of the hammer. You're nowhere predicting a support mechanism to assist the family judge in his role. You do not foresee a family court, that is, as we have told you, or a social care structure, which will give advice to both children and parents. In short, you do not anticipate targeted operational initiatives that the child needs, as well as the whole family. What you have chosen is to see with careless issues and at the end of your bill cause too many problems, because you have decided to attach yourself to the tank of specific interests that have literally paid millions for advertising and lobbying that make you. Apparently the "lobbies" have a much greater value for you than our children. In conclusion, I call on all colleagues from all sides to think very well about what they will vote for, because today, Minister, and those who finally vote for this bill, you are putting your seal on a social crime that will create a'strategic' from abused children, from children deregulated, from mentally disturbed children, from'strategic' to'strategic' parents who will find the opportunity to take all their illness on children. I therefore call on us to put above all the interests of children, their psycho-emotional health above party lines and party interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mrs Adamopoulou. And now we are going through the debate on the objection of unconstitutionalism put forward by the Merra25 Parliamentary Group in Articles 5 and 13 of the draft law which we are debating today in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure. As to what is being violated, we will be told by the caller and parliamentary representative of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, according to Article 21 of our Constitution, the family as the foundation of the maintenance and promotion of the nation, as well as marriage, maternity and childhood, are under the protection of our state. The state, therefore, takes care to ensure decent living conditions for all citizens by means of a minimum guaranteed income system, as laid down in the law. Secondly, the multitude families, the disabled of war and peaceful period, the victims of war, the widows and orphans who have fallen into war, and those suffering from incurable physical and spiritual or mental illness have the right to special care by the state. Thirdly, the State takes care of the health of its citizens and takes special measures to protect the youth, old age, disability and the care of the most deprived. Also, fourthly, the acquisition of residence by those who are deprived of it or who are inadequately resident is the subject of special care by our state and, fifthly, the design and implementation of demographic policy and the taking of all the necessary measures are also an obligation of the state. According to Article 2(1) of our Constitution, respect and protection of human value are the primary obligation of our state. In addition, Article 5(1) of the Constitution stipulates that, first, everyone has the right to freely develop his or her personality and to participate in the country's social and economic life, in so far as he does not infringe the rights of others and does not violate the Constitution or good customs. In addition, Article 25(1)(c) of our Constitution stipulates that these rights also apply to relations between individuals - and here is the important detail - to which they belong. This is the most famous of you, more than I imagine, the principle of three-energy. Finally, Article 28(1) of our Constitution stipulates that the generally acknowledged rules of international law, as well as all international conventions since their ratification by law and their entry into force, according to the terms of each of them, form an integral part of the domestic Greek law and even prevail from any other provision contrary to them. These constitutional provisions, you know, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, are not just guidelines, in our opinion, but are imperative rules of our law. In other words, the right to the protection of childhood is also an institution guarantee. The joint legislator is therefore required to lay down regulations which are appropriate and necessary for the protection of childhood. However, with sadness, Mr President, once again we realise that provisions introduced by this bill are completely in breach of the constitutionally guaranteed rights and, indeed, of younger people, of our young people, who need special care and attention, without prejudice to their real interests for the sole purpose of serving specific 'client' interests. In particular, in the second paragraph of Article 5 of this draft law, which we are discussing today, I quote: "In the best interests of the child, served..." - according to the reasoning of your draft law, Minister - "in particular from the genuine involvement of both parents in raising and taking care of him, as well as from preventing his or her relationships with each one of them, the decision of the court should be taken when deciding on the award of parental care or on the way in which he is exercised." In other words, the court should also look forward to this. And it continues: “The court ruling takes into account parameters... - you say this, that is, your law - "... such as the ability and intention of each of the parents to respect the rights of the other, the behaviour of each parent during the previous period and its compliance with his or her legal obligations, judicial decisions, appeals and prior agreements concluded with the other parent concerning the child". In the present case, the legislature disregarding the true interest of the child, as defined in Articles 21(1), 2(1) and 5(1), as well as Article 25 of our Constitution, as well as the international conventions that our country has ratified and applied, in accordance with Article 28 of the Constitution and which are no more than a free and decent living and form of personality, considers, as a pretext in the interests of the child, the effective involvement of both parents in its upbringing and care, as well as in preventing relations with each of them by establishing criteria which are neither relevant to the interests of the child, but are in fact trying to protect the interests of its adult parents. In this way, however, both the international treaties relating to the protection of children and the provisions of the abovementioned articles of the Constitution are violated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will finish quickly, Mr President. If you're kind, give me another minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u38	Go on, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. In Article 13 of your draft law, the principle of arbitrary determination in 1/3 is a percentage which, in our view, reminds us of the intentions of your bill, Minister, to participate in the acquisition of a marriage, and of course the child is not an acquisition, as a human being, every human creature cannot in any event be an acquisition. In addition to its obvious ambiguity and elasticity, together with the requirement of the lawmaker of the consent or of the judicial decision, required by the parent who exercises custody in order to change his residence, the needs of the child are fully ignored, since the foundation of the development of the child is no more than the stability and the external environment, at home, at school, at companions, in the game, etc. It is also undeniable that continuing changes in the living environment cause stress and insecurity, especially in young children, but also in adolescents. In this way, the provisions of Articles 2(1), 5(1), 25(1)(c) and 28 of our Constitution are clearly violated, while in respect of the parent, which requires written consent or a judicial decision to change his residence, the provisions of Articles 2(1), 4(1) and 5(1) are infringed. Finally, with regard to coercive cooperation between the two parents, which is stressed at every opportunity and in every article in the bill, we must stress that no law can specify what is best for each family individually, for each woman and every child. This should be self-proof and self-evidently the work of the judge and his substitution by the law with quantitative concepts, as attempted by your bill, is completely unconstitutional. In any case, the draft law 'works' puts children at greater risk the situation of gender equality and home peace, which children have a great need. Thank you very much, Mr President, for a little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr Gregoryde. And now we are going to the 'copy' in the New Democracy, and Mrs Anna Mani - Papademiriou - who is the rapporteur for the bill. Here, Mrs. Papadimitriou, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I will speak from my position, because I will be brief. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party has tabled the objection of unconstitutionalism, which has obviously only been made for political - communication reasons, because there is no good legal basis in it. It is clear that it is both the right of parties and colleagues to submit objections of unconstitutionality, but when indeed the provisions of legislation which are not in accordance with our Constitution. Because the opposition of the parties alone to bills cannot very much lead to objections of unconstitutionality. So today's objection of unconstitutionalism, tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists, is completely unfounded and vague. The mere listing of the constitutional provisions, which then contains a simple reference to the provisions of the draft law by which their parliamentary group disagrees, but without sufficient justification, cannot in any case establish the objection of unconstitutionality. In particular, it is also wrong to invoke provisions. And it's gonna be specific. The general provision of Article 5 of the Constitution, which refers to the free development of the individual's personality and subsequently invokes the special provision of Article 21, which refers to the obligation of the State to protect the family and childhood. We cannot, however, invoke the general provision of the Constitution when invoking the special provision. Let us conclude, ladies and gentlemen, what is the legal basis of your objection. The three-energy principle is then invoked. However, this principle of tri-energy, in addition to the fact that it cannot be general, but only in cases in which it presupposes, does not explain in this case how the principle of tri-energy is defined. Furthermore, it is not the legislature, which puts the framework in place and adapts it in the case at hand, to Article 26 of the Constitution for Discrimination of Powers. Moreover, no point in the draft law shows the mandatory nature of its provisions. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the fact that in the report by the Scientific Agency there is nowhere to say about the unconstitutionality of the provisions, your objection is a typical example of an inaccurate and vague presentation of constitutional provisions. I understand your political aim, but it would be right not to involve the Constitution simply for reasons of impression. I request the rejection of the objection of unconstitutionality. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mrs. Papadimitriou. We are going to the Parliamentary Groups and first to the Greek Solution and to Mr Antonis Mylonakis. Those of you who want to speak from your position, like Ms. Mani - Papadimitriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will see that, throughout the debate in this bill, not only the Members of Parliament have objections, but I also believe that you read the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament, which has many objections. We think it doesn't solve problems. On the contrary, it raises existing problems. It is not by chance the objections of experienced Members of the New Democracy, and I am referring to it because I see it before me in the honourable Mrs Giannakou, who knows how much I appreciate it. I read carefully what she objected to in her ten remarks and I think that many of them should have taken them seriously into account. However, we will discuss this during my speech, because the Greek Special Speaker Kostas Heitas mentioned the bill as the special speaker of the Greek Solution. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that everyone who listens to us right now, listens to conscientiousness, listens to parental care, does not understand anything if he is not a lawyer. Legally, some of us have explained them to us too. You're not a lawyer, just like I'm not a lawyer. We're not, that's why our people and lawyers are explaining to us. We need to distinguish what diligence means and what parental care means. With regard to custody, a parent who takes custody of a minor may decide on any matter relating to the mental and physical development of the minor child. Diligence questions are, for example, clothing, footwear, food, home shelter, health care, regular health control, doctor’s choice and some others. The bill on other points is about custody and other points about parental care. For example, it does not refer to fatherhood, motherhood. And I will tell Mr Gregoriadis, and I will show you that at another point the objection of unconstitutionality could be discussed, not what you have done, which does not actually substantiate an objection of unconstitutionality. Parental care relates to serious issues which do not concern the daily care of the child, and which fall within the scope of parental care by both parents. For example, the choice of religion, the subjection to severe surgery, the naming are issues of parental concern. That's legal or legal if you like. However, we must now go to the objection of unconstitutionalism tabled by Mera25 in Articles 5 and 13 of this draft law. I think - and I think we have no wrong as Greek Solution - that you could refer to another article. You referred to Article 5(2). There is for you the objection of unconstitutionality for Article 5. It's not the whole article 5, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Gregoriadis. So, as you mentioned earlier, Article 5(2) does not substantiate an objection of anti-constitutionality. On the contrary, does Article 5(3) substantiate an objection of anti-constitutionality, which says - notice - on the basis of Article 21 of the Constitution? Because that's what you're talking about. Let it go if the Constitution has made it a rag. Anyway, we'll talk about it. It says Article 5(3) of the draft law of the Minister: "The decision of the court must also respect equality between parents, not discrimination on grounds of sex, sexual orientation, race, language, nationality." In other words, Mr Gregoryiadis, what Article 21(1) and (5) of the Constitution says "the family as the foundation for the maintenance and promotion of the nation, as well as marriage, maternity...". Here it is, if we wanted to support something and discuss anti-constitutionalism. He's talking about motherhood. Article 5(3) of the draft law of the Minister no longer speaks of maternity. Understand? You got it, I believe. Why would I tell you something? You're a father. Here, too, I call for logic. We're parents. Others are fathers, others are mothers. How would you like to know, Mr Gregoriadis, if you were separated - and not born - I don't know if you were divorced.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u44	We've got a girl and we love it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u45	I want to say one more thing. Because I, too, broke up, Mr. Plori, and I had no problem. I will go to Mr. Ploris now because he thinks that I am like Mr. Georgiadis who says "no" on the one hand and a "yes" on the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Floris, please. Continue, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u47	So, think that you were divorced, and take your kid five years old to his mom and come back and ask you: Well, my mom, why is she sleeping with Mrs. Chrysa? What would you tell him? That's the problem! That's not what the Constitution stipulates. Because he's talking about motherhood and fatherhood. He doesn't talk about homosexuality, Costa and Babis sleeping together and going back to Mom and saying the five-year-old kid, Mr. Plory, if you want to do things like society says, well, Mom, I went to my dad and he slept with Costa. That's what the kid says. That's the anti-constitutional. Because the Constitution speaks of fatherhood and motherhood. And can I tell you something else? In Article 21 of the Constitution, paragraph 5 states: "Designing and forming a democratic policy, as well as taking all necessary measures is an obligation of the State". What demographic policy will you do when you talk about the same sex couple? So, the two men are gonna have a baby together? Unless a man has the ability to give birth and we don't know it. These are the issues, Mr Plori. That's what New Democracy needs to look at, Minister,
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Mylonakis, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u49	...and not be left-wing more than left-wing, fake progressional.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u50	...to apply for unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u51	That's what society says. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You're laughing! So, according to the Greek Solution, gentlemen of Merra25,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u52	Finish, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u53	I shall conclude, Mr President. I just said it so society could figure it out. Because he hears about conspiracy, he hears about parental care, and he doesn't understand anything. The same problems mother and father.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u54	I didn't say otherwise. I told you to finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u55	The Greek Solution rejects the objection of unconstitutionalism tabled by Mera25 for Articles 5(2) and 13 of the draft law. It is not legally substantiated. The rest in my speech as a Parliamentary spokesman for the Greek Solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Mylonakis. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. The remarks made by PART25 on the specific provisions of the draft law in the anti-constitutionality proposal are on many points - we are talking about problematic provisions, for which we have also criticised our initial position - but they concern the substance of the legislation, the substance of the draft law and are not, in fact, linked to the general constitutional provisions invoked by the proposal. It is right - we have criticised the same - that the issue of the boxing of one/3 is that, in fact, it creates problems, that it does not help in the real distribution, the effective exercise of parental care by parents, that it actually creates more problems than it is trying to solve. We agree that the issues of the child's interest are not solved by the provisions of the bill, where, in fact, the regulation and protection of these issues are considered to be an individual issue for the two parents and there is no provision for effective support for the family with state structures, with financial support measures for them, where, over time, governments have only the financial burden of raising the child to unemployed, poorly paid parents without any provision for their financial support. In other words, we agree with those remarks made, but these remarks concern the substance of the policy implemented by the government. We have made detailed criticisms - and we do at every opportunity - on these issues. They are not linked, they do not relate to this invoked constitutional protection. In addition, it is clear to us that this gender equality of the two parents, which is made both on the government's side of the bill and on the side of those who claim to be protected by these provisions, is only a formal equality, because in real life inequality lives and reigns. The same applies to many other provisions, which are allegedly included in the various drafts on formal equality between citizens in a society that maintains and reproduces social inequalities. From this point of view, we will not be participating in the vote on the request, because we believe that these issues are not related to the provisions of constitutional law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs. Konnakka. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Constantine Scandalidis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Look, for us the issue, as we have analysed and documented, and in the past, it is very serious at the level of essential and legal. There is a large number of provisions in this draft law that are ineffective and risk to the dominant criterion 'the true interest of the child'. It is also true that Articles 5 and 13 - and not only - give rise to concerns and involve negative arrangements, which can give rise to tensions in human relations, particularly against the interests of the child. However, our political controversy can and should be made on solid legal and political arguments, which do not need to be surrounded by a constitutional mantle. It is a consistent position for our parliamentary group not to resort to such objections as to the compatibility of draft legislation. We are in favour of the enthusiastic invoking of the Constitution for its own protection as the state's supreme law. In other words, the control of constitutionality must be carried out with caution, wisdom and enthusiasm, with dominance, of course, of the widespread control by all the Greek courts, which is certain to be exercised in the near future, and the provisions of this law. Politics, therefore, and not constitutional, is our opposition to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice. The documented political controversy, the reaction of the legal and scientific community, as well as a report from the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, provide sufficient - quite adequate, I would say - arguments to reject the relevant provisions as contrary to the core of Greek and European family law, the real interest not of fathers or mothers but of the child himself. We are against the proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Scandalidis. The rapporteur of SYRIZA, Mr Theophilos Xanthiopoulos, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. The debate is of interest and political and ideological interest, it is gaining purely legal status. According to Article 21, childhood is under the protection of the State. The interest of the child as a vague legal concept must be sought by the judge in a particular case and in relation to any particular child. Therefore, restrictions that are put to the law by suggesting to the meaning of the child’s interest some elements against others, such as the non-disorder of his relationship with parents, may be at the expense of specific children. And here, in fact, the state's constitutional obligation is being violated. As an vague legal concept, the interest of the child is specified in each particular case by evaluation criteria, which are drawn, inter alia, from the findings of psychology. The Court is therefore allowed to give it different content in a particular case in the light of the specific nature of any legal relationship and its subjects. The personalised crisis is admitted to constitute also the application of the requirement of Article 2(1) of the Constitution, which excludes stereotypes from the assessment of individuals and personal relations. Therefore, from the point of view of the case, paragraph 2 also requires a wide range of intervention to be given to the judge on a case-by-case basis and under the specific circumstances. Therefore, with the structure prevailing in the contested provision, we think that the issue of unconstitutionality really arises. I should also like to remind you that we have taken note of the report by the Scientific Committee of Parliament and the provision of Article 7, which says that it is an unequal treatment for the person liable to inform a parent who may, under conditions, be inconsistent with the purpose of Article 4 of the Constitution. So we are also told by the Scientific Committee of Parliament that there is another lack of constitutional content. So I put this in the Members' judgement too. Finally, the compulsory communication of the other parent in at least 1/3 can be at the expense of the child, which may be called upon to coexist with a parent operating negatively, maliciously or violently in relation to that parent. So, in this case, we also have a constitutional problem precisely because the margins, set beforehand by the legislator to the judge, effectively limiting his judiciary crisis, are too narrow. For all these reasons, we are voting in favour of the anti-constitutional proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Xanthopoulou. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Athanasios Ploiris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u63	I was impressed by the position of Officer Opposition. Because while you saw that abundant opposition came to the exact logic that if there is a matter of political controversy, we should not get it to the part of the constitutional review, in fact, the Census was in favour of the objection of anti-constitutionality submitted by Mera25. And the reasonable question arises: Since he had these concerns, why did the Qualified Opposition itself not object? Consider what happens when we try to interpret the Constitution based on our political perceptions. You saw the Mera25 and the Greek Solution how they come and interpret Article 21 in their political approach. Mr. Mylonakis is based on motherhood, so he tells you that anything in his opinion violates maternity is an issue of unconstitutionality. And he told us indirectly but clearly here that he wouldn't mind if he heard about a wife going with someone, but he's going with someone. In other words, it would not bother him as a husband if there were any extrajudicial relationships, it would have bothered him of what kind of relationship is, or indirectly, but clearly, that someone who has a sexual preference would have no right - because that is what he says - to have contact with the child, if we get into such a reasonable crisis. D.M.A.25 comes and tells you something else. So I interpret the family as a foundation and the protection of childhood and therefore - as I am going to say - if the law in my view does not protect the childhood that I deem to be unconstitutional, I will come to ask for the provision to be judged unconstitutional. So the constitution comes and sets a state's obligation. The obligation is that the family as the foundation of the maintenance and promotion of the nation - it also matters how the constitutional legislature was seeing it and still sees it the existence of the family - marriage, maternity and childhood are under the protection of the state. So what does this plan do? I will respect any objections that may exist at political level if anyone considers that in this way they are not protected. He's putting this constitutional obligation. Any decision by parents on parental care must be aimed at the best interests of the child. Is the Constitution's check to protect childhood? He is obviously satisfied, because this is the principle and the basis of law, as we have been discussing here. Now we're going to the vague legal concepts that are specialized by the judge. They do specialize by the judge. However, nowhere has the legislature's ability to give general guidelines in terms of interpretation which is absolutely and dominated by the judge to see whether or not these guidelines are met, where appropriate. Does anyone disagree with that? He might disagree. And it's respected. He may consider that it is not for the benefit and interest of the child to see that there must be good relations or to prevent parental relations. But that is political criticism. It is a part of political controversy as I have heard the rapporteurs and the rapporteur here over the Change Movement that we are making a political confrontation and discussing it. Could anyone seriously consider it to be a constitutional issue if the legislature comes to the concepts, which the judge will examine, as has been formulated in a context and dominantly, the court decides? We are therefore coming and saying in the context - because I see that it is being put on the table - of the time of communication that it is again a political criticism. But coming to the legislator and saying that I, freely allowing the judge to judge how this communication will be done, believe that there is, first of all, a presumption, which starts from what protects the Constitution itself, from marriage and childhood and from family as the basis for promoting the nation, that obviously in this relationship there should be a balance between parents. Because marriage is protected, parents are protected, motherhood is protected, childhood is protected. But in this balance, there is a presumption which does not bind the judge, because it is entirely up to the case law which will be formed, in the light of the specific circumstances of the case, to judge what communication is going to be. One might disagree, perhaps in the minds of thinking that there should be no communication from the other party and say that I consider this to be the best interests of the child. So the fact that the legislator comes here meets the requirement of Article 21 and in parallel with the direction he gives, leaves the case-law free to shape decisions on a case-by-case basis, in fact it is absolute respect for the constitutional requirement. Ladies and gentlemen, at some point in this Chamber we should be very careful when we raise issues of unconstitutionality. I would like to see Mera25 and SYRIZA who support it going to the Council of State tomorrow morning in the first decision and say that it is an issue of unconstitutionality. Excuse me, I mean the Marble Ice. So go to the Marble Ice and say that it is unconstitutional to the child's interest that the judge specializes because there were directions by the legislator. Dispute politically. But when you come here to put issues of unconstitutionality, at least don't interpret the Constitution, because ladies and gentlemen will come to you, Mr. Mylonakis of the Greek Solution and tell you about motherhood and will interpret motherhood as he judges. Let us not transfer issues of political controversy to issues of legal constitutional controversy. Because what do we do? I shall conclude, Mr President. It is missing the times that someone will actually get up here and say that these provisions are insulting something specific. At the same time that there are many times we have opposed and laws of unconstitutional different governments have come out, how the legislator here is deceived, when the objection of unconstitutionality rather than putting it on the basis of the Constitution, puts it in place and the thought of its ideological approach and how he understands the constitutional requirements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Pleari. Mr. Plearis is very nervous. I didn't even get to say his name.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u65	I have a minute from a previous speech to fill in, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u66	The Minister for Justice, Mr. Constantine Tsiaras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I think hearing all the arguments that have been put forward on the issue of the constitutionality of this law is clear that this is not a matter of this kind. And I say this, above all, for the representatives of Mera25, that there are some issues that indeed move in the logic of political controversy or the different viewpoint. But respect for the Constitution, which I imagine is the supreme commitment to all of us when we come either to legislate or to discuss bills, is, I think, a basic principle which none of us can and for no reason exceed. Topic of unconstitutionality, at least, with the arguments developed by a large majority of party representatives present, does not exist. So I think that from now on, Mr President, we can continue the debate, since you are, of course, able to listen to all the Members who, I imagine, come to present their views to the debate on this bill. The Greek society is watching and judging us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u70	Colleague, that's not the procedure, you know that. I really want to hear from you, too. That concludes the debate on the objection of unconstitutionalism and in line with the practice followed by these votes on health grounds due to the coronary, i.e. the presumption of the majority, the principle of declared, the proposal is rejected. This is also the result of the parties' positions, as I have heard. Before we go to the speakers in a natural presence, he asked for the floor and the former President of Parliament, Mr. Nikos Voutsis, will have him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very critical, very serious bill and the aspects of objections, differentiations, the right differences have, I believe, been analysed in full by the rapporteur for Officerial Response, Mr Xanthopoulou, but also by the rapporteurs, as well as by the anti-Population parties, especially Mrs Giannakoulou and Mrs Adamopoulou. Let me begin before I begin, Mr Minister, to point out this. I think by mistake yesterday on a radio broadcast you mentioned the fact that the objections of Members of the New Democracy Parliament are due to experiential situations and experiences. Because this, as you can imagine, is not a dead thing, but it is praiseworthy in my view, and so it should be understood, but the reason you have used does not go that far, I would like you to take note of it and you will find the opportunity to restore yourself. And it is praiseworthy that I would like from the Step of Parliament to make the point that the political system should also be labelled, the Members now and formerly MPs or male MPs to participate, if they want to, of course, if they want to have such experiences or any experience, much more in the important "Me Too" movement in the Greek case, as in the last few months he has come to the surface in an explosive manner and in critical aspects of public life, not only of culture, sport, our society, leaves his print. We must also be present on these issues. I can't and I don't want to say much more. I think that the point I made was understood. Because it may have delayed this publicity and this movement in Greece and found the occasion for the brave presentation by Sofia Bekaterou to unravel over the last few months, but he has his fertilizer, his beginnings for years in the fact that society has been resurrected for the murder of Topaloudi and all the debate since the trial, for the murder of Zak Kostopoulos and all the issues that have been opened. We are, therefore, at a time of time, which is why I am going to refer perhaps to issues other than those which the rapporteurs and rapporteurs have raised, we are at a time when pandemic - everyone recognizes it and the government - has created an additional unfavourable environment for domestic violence. Internationally the four or even most crises that coexist and overlap, the climate crisis, the economic, social, the manifestations of the refugee crisis bring to the surface the crucial issue of the production of new inequalities and the exacerbation of inequalities worldwide, on an international scale. We are also in a parliament following the previous period of Parliament to catch the thread from it, which was previously heard about the great reform of family law in 1983, but also the previous Parliament had tabled a number of difficulties, because you remember and know that we did not have an absolute majority to pass such legislation, and that it promoted very important legislation on gender identity, on the treatment of racial discrimination, on the treatment of all forms of discrimination, on the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, on horizontal gender and other policies. So we come to this House today to table this bill, which - and I would like to stress this - has no obligation to harmonise perhaps with European treaties and European codes. Because it is clear that, for compulsory co-responsibility, no European legislation tends to tend to such a perception as it leaves itself directly through 'equivalent' and others, and that is why this debate is being held, you are pushing such a process, and it is commonly accepted by both Greek law and European legislation that after the divorce, parental care is taken, unless there is a great deal of disagreement, which percentages are not too great. We all have to help to be the younger, to get real consent, so there is refuge in the courts. The issue of diligence and communication, which is different and must not be confused - has been emphasized above all - diligence with parental care, conscientiousness and other things, is carried out on the basis of agreements, agreements made in any case on the basis of the laws of each country and not on the basis of a mandatory European directive. This is a common place, an opening for our debate. I shall not therefore refer to what has been said and which is very serious, for example, for selective exceptions to malicious behaviours and times left by unprotected children, on the issue of homosexual couples, which is one of the forms of modern family which are as invisible parents, because they are not included in this bill or, in any case, in horizontal arrangements and in the confusion I have referred to earlier. I would like to stress, in general terms, that, at the very same time as the exacerbation of inequalities at all levels and the need for additional guarantees, additional armour, additional rights, additional control mechanisms in the context of these inequalities, too many manifestations of social, economic and personal life, instead of this care, has internationally developed an aggressive movement, which claims to overthrow, on the contrary, any institutional guarantees, the lifting of guarantees for discrimination and inequality. The bill that you will shortly bring to work for, for example, the unprecedented concept of equality, the equivalence of the ordinary worker, the new worker and the employer, is seen as reforming the existence of a personal negotiation and arrangement for the roles of work, the guarantees of work and even wage issues. It's really completely out of any sense, when we know very well who has the upper hand. I'm not talking in this case about a victim and a mortal, but who has the upper hand in this relationship. The same is happening, and you have done so through your government practice in two years for critical issues where there are other major disparities, for example for the environment, for climate change, for environmental crimes, in our country, where the shrinking of inspection mechanisms in all areas, even in the environmental field, is ultimately taking to the detriment of those who suffer the adverse consequences of environmental catastrophe. We could talk about too many issues, because I want to come to the core. The core is that there is obviously no equality between women and men. Obviously there is no parental equality in the sense of man and woman. We have to say something and I say it. I am sure that you have discussed this with the committees quite a few of the wings. We are still living in an intensified situation with new conditions in which they prevail - where they do not prevail entirely on other continents - in other countries - and the patriarchal perceptions and structures which produce relationships that define and undermine essential equality. Have we been through this? Because I repeat to you that certain movements are being developed, where this aggression, mentioned earlier by some groups of men, dads or anything about their issue - and indeed this movement - has to do and to a large extent harmonises with the aggression of various lobbys worldwide in relation to existing inequalities, namely, where they consider that due to the phase of globalisation and pre-schooling, where, in their opinion, there is a generalization, of goods supply and an explosion of equality and of inequality, which has been built up for decades, with international conventions, European conventions, specific conventions on children's rights, all that have been heard before, international organisations, guarantees in the constitutions, which were what were they were? They came to minimum immunity, guaranteeing the impossibility of the existing inequality, either because of the economic situation of either the sovereign system, or - and this applies to men and women, because patriarchal models are largely independent of the economic systems which they are validating. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u72	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u73	So they think, and that is why these views are so aggressive, that the time has come for us to end, for the world to end with the support, support and the institutional provision of guarantees to all who are on the side of the impossible in the existing inequalities, which I repeat are exacerbated, are not weakened. So, from this point of view, which is not at all philosophical, it is a view which has been discussed on several occasions in this Parliament when the relevant bills come and, I repeat, with shocks from all the wings or from other wings, it is not a left-wing exclusiveity and I do not present them as such - and on this issue, which is very critical in the pandemic, it contradicts. The philosophy, the letter of the bill on the subject of conscientiousness contradicts. In this sense, one should explain the documents submitted, the objections made by the Citizens' Counsellor, the objections or objections made by the Scientific Committee of Parliament, the complaints, disagreements or objections by bodies or legal bodies which are in such bodies, the absence of women's organisations from the relevant debate, which they obviously could not consent to in this bill. In other words, you have to discover - and for us, our debt is to reveal, I wanted to put this vote in our debate - what is the operative cause. It is not a perception of anachronism, it is not a concept of staying toward what happened in '83, to God, it has been analysed that we need to see in a modern way, approaching problems that have arisen from the application, case law, legislation, etc. But all of them and all of them, and all of them, the objection, which has been condensed against the law, in the bill you're proposing, has a starting point. And the starting point is that, in particular in these conditions of pandemic, international globalisation, etc., in the opposite direction, in a clearer sense, the rights, guarantees concerning these issues which we are discussing, should be recorded, institutionalised and, above all, controlled and assisted, also assisted by the special courts and social authorities, as mentioned above by the other rapporteur, the JRC, and in particular, as has been mentioned several times by Mrs Fotio, with the package of social support available to children, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u76	Of course, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try not to answer every speaker, and I say it so that we can follow the whole procedure, except for this one exception, after what I have heard from the honourable President of the Greek Parliament. Obviously there is no Greek legislation's commitment to follow what is happening in the law of the other European countries, and that I think is clear. The step taken is just to find ourselves close to a philosophy that is proved to exist. For this reason, I would really like to put forward the figures for ten - fifteen European countries - all the same - from the official website of the European Union and, of course, from parental care and mediation, two of the main elements of the draft law. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The second thing I would like to comment on, to solve any misunderstanding, is the reference to personal experiences. Personal experiences, ladies and gentlemen, we all have, and I imagine that this is understandable, and I obviously say this to the honourable Minister, Mr Giannakou, it obviously did not involve any'subtle' of my position in the face of what she may have shown us as her own resistance. I respect the different views, I want to make that clear. As I have also expressed my respect throughout the political course of the Minister, in many different ways, and in no way would I want this to be taken into account in a wrong way. On the other hand, the fact that all of us in a more general family and social surroundings are being accepted by such situations I think it is a reality that no one can question. That's the reality, we know it very well. I do not think that this is acceptable to any other type of reading and, of course, within this framework that has been created in recent years with the 'Me Too', to which the honourable Member referred, and with all these issues, which we have to deal with at some point as a political system, I think they are just putting us in the position that, seriously and with mild, moderate approach, we must all see and solve them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Minister, and go to the speakers' circle with a natural presence. The curtain will be opened by Mr. Ioannis Bougas from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, I was in a natural presence too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u80	I refer to the speakers, Mr President. After Mr Buga, Mrs Olga Gerovasili will follow, and then the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement Mr.Scandalidis called for the floor. Mr. Buga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with one comment. The wording, passion, intensity of rhetoric are, unfortunately, disproportionately disproportionate to the substance of the arguments and the submission of final proposals for counter-population. Of course, dissidents from the opposition are well aware of this, but, while observing the separation and polarisation of social groups, others are supporting the rights of men and others, instead of stifling the spirits, saying what is the essence of the arrangements in the planned draft law, they are strengthening the divisive rhetoric, unfortunately looking forward to micro-party benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion, which is carefully and mildly, attempts, after some forty years, to introduce small scales, but necessary reforms in the most sensitive area of family law, relationships between parents and children. It follows from the basic finding that the current regulations reproduce a stereotype created by the consolidation of the case-law of our courts, which, in the event of a spouse's dimension, confer, in the vast majority of cases, parental care with stereotypes and typical reasons. It lays the draft law as the foundation for the equal participation of parents in the upbringing, physical, mental, emotional and spiritual development of their children. This is happening - and the law says so - during the wedding. It is also desirable that after the marriage’s dimension or solution there should be an equal participation of parents. That is why the draft law we are discussing gives priority to parents, who knowing better than anyone else their child and his interests must agree on the issues of custody of the person, of residence, of nutrition and of communication with the parent with whom he will not reside together. On the issue of custody, for example, parents can freely agree either the diligence or the sole custody of one of them. In the event of disagreement, they shall be given the opportunity to appeal to mediation. If they do not want mediation or if mediation fails then, as is the case in any favoured society, the judge has the final word. The legal evidence, however, that the law stipulates that the judge must take into account different quantitatively, but also qualitatively from the existing regulations, which is not bad, on the contrary, is good because he gives the judge greater power to form his judiciary and extends, in the context of the system of inquiry, his or her field of inquiry. A fundamental rule, which runs all the parental and child arrangements, is that parents share the parental care of their child. This rule follows from the basic scientific assumption that the proper development of the child presupposes the active presence of both parents until adulthood. The "equivalent", for which much has been done, does not serve "awkward purposes", but seeks emphatically to mark the equal participation of parents in the care of their children. The allegations, which have been heard, that, in this way, the compulsory alternating residence for the child is, in essence, simply the pretexts of those who want to vote against the bill. On the substance, ladies and gentlemen, these arguments have no basis, because the issues referred to by the spokesmen of the Opposition are specifically and exhaustively dealt with in Articles 3, 8 and 12 of the draft law and, if one reads the bill, it cannot be thought indirectly or directly of the regulation of the bill, which is, on the contrary, other provisions of the 'import' - conscientiousness and compulsory alternating residence. This is, in my view, legal paradoxes. An important provision is also the introduction of a battle presumption of one third for the communication of the child with the parent with whom he does not live. This presumption is not arbitrary, but you should be aware - I think it was said at the meetings in the committee concerned - that there are findings of modern studies which determine the minimum amount of time for the parent to communicate with his or her child to about 35%. Nearly all the speakers referred to the importance of communication between the child and the parent who is not living in order to strengthen the mental bond and the role of the parent in the child's psychosocial development. However, when the time comes for this to come, there are several justifications, such as that it is not, in the first instance, deliberately and legally correct to introduce a quantitative criterion to the regulation of personal relations and that the reference period for the provision is not specified, so as to refuse, in the end, the vote in favour of Article 13 of the draft law, which provides for one-third of the total time, but - and this is particularly important - the basic condition laid down in this provision, namely that 1/3 is provided, provided that the daily life of the child is not disturbed. And this condition, who judges her? Sire, it's the parents who judge her. But if parents disagree, then who is the final judge on whether this condition is met? He's the judge. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] It also lays down objective criteria for the misuse of parental care, which are necessarily taken into account by the court, in the regulation of matters of parental responsibility and care for children such as non-payment of maintenance, non-respect for judicial decisions and agreements between divorced parents and the burglary of relations between the child and the other parent. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President. I'd like some time. The adoption of objective criteria reveals the functional nature of the rights, since the institution of the rights has not only the power but the obligation to exercise them, because those rights, parental responsibility and communication tend to be in the service of a legally important and generally beneficial purpose, which is not in the interests of the child. The poor exercise of those obligations resulting from operational rights has been penalised. The critics of the draft law argue that the trend in caselaw cannot be regulated and point out that what is provided for in the draft law can be decided by the courts, by changing the case-law under the applicable rules. In this regard, two comments: firstly, when the legislator, ladies and gentlemen, finds injustices, pathogens and arrhythmias cannot remain a mere spectator, in the hope of changing the case-law. Secondly, no one must underestimate the pedagogical function of the rules of law, which can be a strong point of reference and bring about a change in the culture of judges and parents. Two words about the family court. The debate on the family court has started very early, since the '60s, in particular, since 1969, in Berlin, at an international conference of judges. Very briefly, let us look at the main arguments in favour of the creation of a family court and compare them with those provided for in the bill and currently in force in our country. First in favour of setting up: Determination of physical competence. In Germany, the debate focuses on whether differences will be judged at court or court level. Here, we have been taking decades - and there is no adversary - the decision to have the exclusive competence of the one-sided Court of First Instance. Point 2, speed of procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u82	You need to finish it, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, I will be done in a minute. In our law, the Code of Civil Procedure provides for a special procedure, which speeds up the resolution of these disputes. Point three, the judge's support from expert scientists. In Greece, the judge can resort to expert advice if he wants to resolve difficult issues. Point fourth, the specialisation of judges who must be equipped with modern rather than traditional knowledge, in order to meet the requirements of settlement of differences between parents and children. But that is what the bill does, it provides for special programmes from the National Court School for the training of judges who will judge family differences. So, with interest, ladies and gentlemen, who are supporting the establishment of such courts, I expect to hear what would add to what is currently in force in law? Sometimes in politics it is more difficult to deal with carefully, mild and moderate big and serious social issues than attempting radical sectors and on the other hand, to allow the perpetuation of pathogens without taking steps to solve them. The political leadership of the Ministry of Justice proves that it does not hesitate to bring to a public debate issues that concern the Greek society and propose realistic solutions to the National Representation to deal with them. Minister, be sure that the draft law you are proposing will have a positive effect on regulation, but above all on the educational level in the sensitive area of parent and child relations. I hope that those who today criticise the provisions of the draft law, when we see their positive impact on the Greek society, will have the courage to confess to their mistake. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u84	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Olga Gerovali has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, we have lived under the responsibility of the government of course the longest and most inefficient lockdown throughout Europe. Now a new, supposedly, success story is unfolding before us when - in truth - intensive care units are full, hospitals are full and our country is off the green list of travel instructions. It all opens up, tourism, schools, focus, democracy in quarantine. The government insists on bringing to the House critical bills that divide Greek society and, of course, insist on putting another problem into Greek families where there are already problematic relations. We all know that difficult domestic relations at the time of the pandemic have been further intensified, with many issues that have been heard before and by President Voutsi. For months now, the natural presence of MPs has been excluded, to some extent logical, today hypometers. And, of course, in the fear of control over the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, we have virtual roll-call votes - which, as we all know, require a natural presence, which the government stubbornly refuses to allow - through the secretaries of the parliamentary groups. And, of course, the Prime Minister, in the context of the ownership concept of the state, with too many interventions - I will not list them here - means that he does not come to the House to answer questions from the Officer, the President of the Officerial Response, Alexis Tsipras, to legislate as far as he can without control - he does not always do so, because there are Members of Parliament yet - and very often chooses the Greek Parliament with whom he wants to talk, when this show can be better. Today, then, there is a bill on conscientiousness with untimely and dangerous micro-political feasibility and, of course, with the corresponding distance to scientific data, which the New Democracy Government is accustomed to. This bill is relied upon by a cynical property concept for children and comes to exploit emotions, parental feelings for women and men. In this case he tries to take advantage of the parents of certain fathers, not telling them the full truth. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not disagree that the protection status of the family, of the children, may need improvements. However, we must conclude that we have had a very progressive family law, which has so far reached satisfactory results and solved many issues. However, under no circumstances can it be justified to abolish acquired rights for children. Today the government is attacking the rights of children, focusing not on the interests of the child so far, which I recall was judged individually in court for each child. Now the focus is the parent, the property-type rights in the child, and where the conflict between parents will end, not putting the child in the center of this conflict. Of course, the rights of the parent will not be judged ad hoc, as appropriate, but horizontal, in advance, and this is a flagrant illegality. According to all international data, according to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, with the European Commission, there have been bodies that have spoken, all actors have spoken against this bill. The Scientific Committee of the Parliament was consulted with corresponding observations. Nobody listens. And, of course, horizontal legislation in advance and on such a matter, I think it is not meant. As the scientific bodies have said, the legislator cannot establish 50-50, a child's equal-changing residence, nor compulsory communication times, without considering which parents it is, what needs the child has. These do not happen in any country, they do not exist in any fairness. Another so-called innovation is mediation. However, the Istanbul Convention explicitly prohibits mediation in cases of domestic violence and does not, of course, require that the illegitimate parent, which - as we all know - takes too many years. The agencies won the bill. The government hears nothing. It intervenes in the judiciary and establishes the ‘bad’ parent of the reading, the obligations and the ‘good’ parent of the holidays, necessarily giving 1/3 of the communication. And of course, with all this mechanism, they will be rejoined, i.e. tens or possibly hundreds or thousands of Greek families will be dragged back to court, for which the court had already arranged the custody of the children and the maintenance due. The government, instead of ensuring a stable, safe environment for the development of the child, makes children a ball between parents, with the mandatory alternating residence. And of course, I close with the famous parental alienation - the institutions have said so - a concept of scientifically unreliable but also dangerous. What does "exhaust parent" mean? Is this an international bibliography, that is, a scientific given, or is it a certain conception of someone, or has all been dictated by lobbies who - as it has been said - also made a lot of money for advertising this bill? Look, the government is aware that it is working and working on fire to serve specific interests. The worst thing is that now the New Democracy is not hesitant to promote whatever interests, even in the sensitive area of family law and even at the expense of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Gerovali. I will now give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Constantine Scandalides. The Member of the New Democracy, Mr Simopoulos, will then speak. Here, Mr. Scandalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Is there a problem of conscientiousness, namely the joint exercise of parental care, which is now to be dealt with and not tomorrow? The answer is no doubt 'yes'. This is a complex social issue, which has been being dealt with for many years. The judicial practice, unfortunately, by habit, by deterioration of the problem, by easy and inexpensive copying of case-law, or by biasing decisions in favour of the mother, in any case reproduces it as a problem. It is therefore necessary to deal with it now. Secondly, I consider it positive first of all that the government intends to deal with this by tabling a legislative proposal. I would like to point out an undeniable need - regardless of agreements or disagreements, which are naturally raised on such a complex and crucial issue - for the style and spirit of confrontation to overcome the micro-political and micro-political aspirations, to respect the unique and exceptional situation of each case, not to exacerbate the already shaped climate in society, not to subject ourselves to the spectacular confrontation and dogmatic blindness which, unfortunately, one has also heard in this Chamber - is a social problem, which is horizontally dissipating society. It is not limited to one or another space. So there is no point in narrow party competition. Are there progressive and conservative perceptions? Obviously, there are progressive and conservative perceptions on all issues. Everything that improves the plan to be accepted by us, Mr Minister, has also been said by our rapporteur - we are open, beyond our formulated individual agreements, to any positive amendments, until the end of the debate and to what we hope you can bring. Thirdly, I remember as if it were the atmosphere, which accompanied the revolutionary change that took place in 1983 by the government of change, a modern, progressive and effective family law that irreversibly reversed the concepts and practices of endless decades, which negatively marked Greek society and was the image of its backwardness. I also remember the great social resistance found by those changes and, indeed, in a very sharp way. Nevertheless, it was a revolution in family law, a major reform. As far as the child is concerned, the changes at that time were inspired by a child-centered philosophy, which I am not saying is being expelled from your bill, but, unfortunately, is questioning it to a significant extent. That reform certainly needs a new breath after so many decades' experience, it is not timely now, and for many years the need for reform, the new breath. It is true that in the mid-term we attempted it, in '96, in 2012 and then the governments that followed at the time so far. Unfortunately, we have not been able to implement this from such a mature time as there is a need for intervention. Fourthly, how is the problem being described today and what are the key elements in dealing with it? First of all, we all agree on the social basis, and we agree on the need for the child to be brought up, without footnotes and asterisks, at the centre and in whatever regulation to try to bring about the joint exercise of parental care. That's the base. I imagine that we all agree on the need to exhaust all possibilities for responsible and consensual choice in favour of the child before the matter arrives at the trial. We therefore have two main issues to ensure: the first, mediation which must become a thorough preliminary procedure and which must come at the heart of progressive legislation, as little as possible. Secondly, if a fair trial reaches the audience, an objective which is obviously not solved by inadmissible or forced external interference, but by changes in justice itself to radically change the practice of court proceedings. Fifth, does this draft law ensure these sovereign requirements? How is such a critical and difficult social issue dealt with? By putting on mechanic molds? Subscribing it to the procrust bed of percentages? What does a third of the year mean or just the same in the residence? This single point undoes any positive proposal by the legislator. Neither mediation nor fair trial are treated with such logic. And if our arguments are incapable of persuading you, the Scientific Service of the House is here to substantiate its legitimate objections. That should worry you, Minister. Such criticism is neither customary in bills as much as the one we have seen in this particular text. An effective intervention must have the potential of a genuine new progressive reform. In simple terms, institutional change is needed, not time arrangements and intervention from outside. On the basis of your proposal, you are not given the opportunity to give a definitive solution and to satisfy the two demands I mentioned earlier. Is that a solution easy? Not at all. Our proposal responds to both the main issues: the effective mediation, which will make the trial a last resort and the change of inadmissibility up to now court practice. I have chosen this point to refer a little more specifically to our proposal. I do not hide from you that the stimulus I took from the first speaker from the New Democracy, who told us that we do not make proposals and we do not have positions. When I read to the press today the proposals made by the Prime Minister on the climate law, which he will bring, it is not written anywhere that we tabled a climate law yesterday, which we asked to discuss, and you have referred us to yours, which you will make in three months. If this is called 'democracy' in the media and information, tell me. We're doing our job. And laws will be made and proposals put forward and documented we will speak. But I do not think it honors you to treat the opposition in this way. So let's go to our specific proposal. We propose the creation of the institution of the family court, with well-trained and qualified judges, who will avenge exclusively cases of family law. A court, actively and constantly supported by appropriate scientific staff, pedophiles, family advisors, social workers and others. The availability of material and human resources makes it realistic to establish such structures in each appeal region. The court's direction will clearly be towards exploiting, above all, alternative forms of resolution, family mediation, judicial mediation. Only as a last resort should a trial be conducted on grounds of reduced litigation, in order to minimise, in particular, the psycho-corruption - especially for children - time-consuming and costly procedures for the parties involved. The new family court is expected to give the family conflict resolution system a character of a direct, effective, family-friendly and reconciliation-friendly nature, with the necessary expertise of judges and the assistance of special scientific staff with documented judicial decisions. So only, Minister, will Greece be able to follow examples of other states that have developed specially designed family courts, such as America, England, Canada, France, Belgium, with great success rates of the extrajudicial method of resolution and a significant relief of the judicial mechanism from family affairs. This is the positive, bold, reformative proposal of the Change Movement for a family law of modern and law, with practicable and realistic provisions, which do not aim to satisfy pressure groups, but the true interests of the child, with an individualised response to all cases by a qualified and well-managed judiciary. A family law with the child at the centre. Your proposal is, unfortunately, a long way from such a definitive institutional solution which requires real reform in our family law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr Scandalides, and especially for keeping time. Mr Simopoulos has the floor from New Democracy, then Mr Kouvellas and then Mrs Liikoulis. Mr Simopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, thank you. Mr Ministers, I will obviously not speak to you legally, but I am an engineer. I simply retain the right to claim that I have that social experience in order to approach such issues as this. Since the morning in the Chamber I have heard calm voices, but I have heard 'later' - in introductory voices, focusing on the malicious parents. How many are in society? There are, yes, but what percentage? I have also heard that we are being taught about the principles of the party. I also heard a pompous vacancies. I heard a purely legal approach. As I told you, I will speak purely political. So I say a very big 'yes' in the bill. A "yes" that arises from my personal social experience because we have all become more or less a witness to what is going on there. We all need to know that at the time when we are expressing a public speech, either on the floor of the House or obviously in the media, this is about life and everyday life, in particular, thousands of our fellow citizens. That is why we must take care of the way in which we are expressing ourselves. Our confrontation must have social reports. Everyone has spoken in this Chamber about the fact that we had to take a step forward. But few have referred to how this step should be taken forward. The government today and the Ministry responsible do it. He takes the political courage to decide exactly what will happen. Because it is always in politics that you have to decide on aspects that are approached differently, many times between conflicting interests. Although here we don't talk about interests. It is true that as our legal system operated so far, one parent, father, has become a distant relative. And she became a distant relative because our system was purely matriarchal. It could be too much of my point. With this bill, I believe that there is a equality that women's organisations were generally asking for. The ones who are now across the bill. It's something I don't understand. I had my reservations too. I asked, I found out, I read. And as far as I know, the bill has security controls. It has security controls on the court, which are obviously related to mediation. Obviously also the training of judges. I fully agree that we must strengthen social support structures. I therefore believe that issues such as the child's preference, as entered in the previous debate, are being regulated. Take into account the child's preference in the discussion. Everyone's talking about conspiracy. Of course, some discern diligence or focus on conscientiousness on other issues that do not concern this bill. For example, gay couples. They're trying to fish in blurred waters. The question of conscientiousness in this bill is something else and we have to focus on it as long as we can. The opposition has focused on the word 'equivalent'. Of course, collapsing claims that it is not a window for the alternating residence. I wish it was a window for the alternating residence. I wish. I think we should see that too. Of course I understand that it can't be horizontal and that's why there's a court. Why can't there be any alternating residence when the parents are close? What's the problem? I hope, then, that, Minister, the 'equivalent' will become a window for the alternating residence. Also, as far as time is concerned, we're at 1/3. The time the parent must devote his child, the parent who does not reside with the child. So I think that could be 50-50. Of course, I imagine that through the court or through a consensual procedure we can go to 50-50. I believe that the opposition, as the Qualifications usually do, is exhausted in the phrase which I will say very commonly 'bottle on sheep, wolf on sheep' on all matters. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the wolf is not coming and society is there and it is watching us. As we are being watched in terms of democracy, as we are being watched on social issues, as we are being watched in economic matters, as we are still being watched in the issues that the government has handled during the pandemic. So because the wolf is not coming, I do not think that you should - I hope you do not - change your opposition account as well. The country needs opposition, mainly Dedicated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr Simopoulos. Mr Couvelas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with a reference to the memory of the innocent victims of the ruthless Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou we honour today and say that we will fight until the vindication, namely, its universal international recognition. The death of the innocent and the uprooting are a deep wound that we will always remind of in younger generations, not through revenge but with the intention of restoring historical truth and aiming at peaceful coexistence of peoples without fanaticism and intolerance. Today's draft law would describe it as a bill of increased sensitivity. It belongs to that category of laws that are being passed, which do not really belong to parties, nor to opposition crowns, nor to ideological obsessions, just to create some impressions. I would like to believe that each side has come to the debate in good faith on the drafting of a bill, which will in the end really be in the best interests of the child. This intention, of course, must be recognised, ladies and gentlemen, and the Ministry of Justice. In this sensitive subject, there is certainly a social dialogue. And he became. He comes to plenary today after a long process of social fermentation, while in the official consultation he collected a number of records of interventions by citizens and institutions with fifteen thousand comments. In the parliamentary procedure, we also had a record of twenty-one in our committees. The rule of good legislation has therefore been applied in practice, as we are all seeking. It is also a question of sound dialogue in the republics. That is what happened in this case. I respect those who express good faith, but I don't see why someone should be with the dads or be with the moms. I agree that we should definitely be with the children. The draft law creates for parents a decisive basis for dialogue and understanding in order to peacefully resolve their differences after separation for the true interest of their child. The spirit of the whole arrangement tends to grow, if you want, a culture of understanding so that parents themselves realize that they need to work together for the good of their child. This provides for the steps to resolve any disputes arising. Besides, I'm a lawyer and I've handled several family law cases have seen and heard quite a lot of my ears. But first we're going to see the parents' own consensus. If they do not come to an agreement, the Ombudsman will have recourse to family affairs and, of course, the last solution if the previous ones do not succeed is to appeal to the courts. I have heard a number of colleagues in the context of the well-known opposition attitude to speak of a generic bill. But the opposite is happening here, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation. At the base of the bill is the child and the weakest parent. This also proves to be the case if one reads the draft law carefully. For the first time, provisions are introduced and will be implemented in accordance with international conventions and obligations resulting therefrom, in particular from the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. I think we all agree that this reform is necessary after thirty-eight years from the '83 Act', a law which has really been new in its time, but the conditions are changing and the needs of a society, as it is natural, are changing, if we think that 1983 was much less women working, and today it is the norm mother - women working. I have also heard a lot about the role of the court in these cases in the case-law of the Court of Justice, how it and so on. However, I do not understand why some should ask the legislator to lead the court to a specific direction or to ask others to restrict the opportunity of the judge or, perhaps, to be without limits. This draft law proposes something balanced and leaves a scope for action for the judge to truly serve the paedophile character of the new regulations. We must not underestimate the crisis, the perception of judges or their training. It's high. Let's trust them. In addition, it is institutionalised by the draft law and specialised training on family law by the Judiciary School itself. Ideally, it would be possible to have special chambers and judges who will only judge cases of family law in all the courts of the country. This, of course, is already happening in Athens, Thessaloniki and Piraeus. In the smaller first instances, that is not possible. Good, then, the proposal, but do not now act as if we discovered the wheel or stop the debate until we resolve this practical issue. Therefore, for the first time, the joint and equal exercise of parental care by both parents is enacted, ensuring their equal participation in the event of separation in the most crucial issues concerning their child's life and upbringing. Why does the concept of equal obligations scare us so much, as does the Constitution, which some of you have invoked earlier? Why should the responsibilities and rights of both parents not be maintained in common and even after their marriage has been resolved? However, none of the provisions makes it necessary to establish public custody nor is it in the spirit of the legislature, and it is once again laid down that it is the judge who is to judge on a case-by-case basis. Of course, cases differ from one another and this is something that is guaranteed by this legislative approach. Also, 'common' and 'from the same point of view' can be addressed, as we said initially, the possibility for parents to consult, to freely regulate the relationship and the issues which concern them and the children. If they disagree, they go to court. Nowhere, however, there is no horizontal application of compulsory public care. There is provision, yes, for a minimum of communication between the child and the parent who does not live with him, with the parent who will mainly see in the context of communication, but this is also a fighting presumption. It is now set at 1/3 of the total time. Less or more time will again be determined by the court, in the event of disagreement, but in a way that will not disturb the daily life of the child. This is essential, it is important and is provided for in the bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The regulations are, therefore, balanced, they are progressive, they provide security margins for the benefit of the child. In practice, at the end of the day, everything will be judged by life itself in our society and it is up to us to promote the culture of understanding between parents who separate themselves for the benefit of their children. I respect the view of those who say that we should keep the law in force, as in some other countries, where for decades they have maintained the same rules. But you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and the Members of other opposition parties, who agree on the need for change, are proposing that we should not change anything, that you should know that you should give clear explanations to society and the citizens, who are following this conservative attitude of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u92	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u93	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that if we listened clearly to the children themselves, we would be told that they wanted their dad and mom to continue to love them, protect them and take care of them together. So don't underestimate them. Let us put them in the middle of the debate, at the center of the next day following the vote on the bill, which I urge you to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Couvela. Mrs. Evangelia Lykoli from the Change Movement has the floor. Mr. Patsis will be followed by the New Democracy. Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 1994 with a recommendation by Mr. Andreas Papandreou, the Greek Parliament voted to declare this day of 19 May, as a Memorial Day for the Genocide of the Greeks in Pontou. The Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus as a traumatic event, for both the victims and the victims, cannot remain on the sidelines of the collective memory of the peoples who live on both the east and west coast of the Aegean. The three hundred and fifty - three thousand slaughtered were not victims of crowdage in a port! Both may one day heal only if we accept the harsh truths. The international recognition of the Pontian Genocide is a struggle, ladies and gentlemen, which continues. Minister, today after you have been upset first by the Greek society as a whole, you have made us remember and recover incidents, we fighting first-line lawyers for many years, which you know other laws have been writing, but they are actually applied and other real life is finally putting you down, to see on the real ground. So a young boy, ladies and gentlemen, after the divorce of his parents, lived with his mother, as custody was entrusted to her. It's the usual. The father retained his right to communication with him. This father had shown repeated behavior of violence and aggression within the family, the wife, the child. Complaints had been made to the police by the wife, etc. During the father’s communication with the child, physical lesions were observed in the child, reaching the burning of the child with cigarettes at various parts of the body. So the mother appealed - where else? - to justice. He didn't figure it out. He made insurance measures to interrupt communication even temporarily until the experts ruled out. He didn't figure it out. He asked the prosecutor to examine the child by a coroner. He didn't figure it out. She asked that all family members, she, should be ordered to be controlled by a social worker, by a child psychiatrist, by the father. Unfortunately, no official state institution intervened in this tragedy of the child. After a long struggle, through private coroners, lawyers, psychologists, specialist teachers - 'private', Minister, you hear - the mother managed to prove the crime committed. Where was the state to protect the child? On the opposite side of this story, in another room in Hope, after parental divorce, the custody of the baby - age girl was assigned to the mother. The father kept communication with his child with many labors, which were systematically blocked by the mother. Mother suffered from serious mental illness. But she stopped all of a sudden and for no reason to take her medication. The child was systematically neglected, full of bruises, in starvation, with obvious delay in walking and speaking. Father started a race. He's been sent to the prosecutor's office. He didn't figure it out. He appealed for legal action in the courts. He didn't figure it out. He did procedures over and over, with no effect. So he wiped his sleeves and himself to save his child. She insisted on three-year-old procedures, please, and the help of individuals again specialists, pediatricians, psychologists, etc. And where was the state again, Minister? ‘Where are its structures?’ One wonders when one hears us. Where's her automation first? Where's the speed required? Because every day of neglect or abuse for a child is a death. So where's the special care? Where is the special approach, the protection of incapacity when complaints about children and divorced parents simply go in line with them? Good or badly fighting, I repeat, in the courtrooms, there are no, my Minister, the structure and tools needed to ensure the child's mental and physical health for the child's infamous interests, as you all say, but theoretically. So I feel today that we are talking about the place without having discussed the whole thing. Today we're trying to build the first floor without having foundations and ground floors. Where are you going to support it in the air? We are discussing the issue of the child’s condolence to families that broke up the marriage or association by giving legal provisions to the system itself. What system? What he cannot respond to today is the same. So you call on the existing justice, with the existing judges, with the existing chambers of court, with the existing structure that you and you call it problematic, and that is why you say you change it. And what are you doing? A set of provisions that you give back to it in the same context. So we're giving them the plugs without having built the wall. Where are they going to put them? Look, it is true, you are right when you say: 'Is the problem not there?' I heard you. Of course, there is, and it is a great admission, that unfortunately a divorce brings about the partial alienation of children from one parent or from the other and in some tragic cases the whole one. This is a great assumption that we must make, ladies and gentlemen. The one who's diligent, he's got it all. The other has anything or crumbs. It's rare when the other one has something, really. A tragic admission is still that the child is spoiled for many parents. Don't you, for example, pay the diet? I'm interrupting communication with the child. It is also a truth, however, Minister - and it is your field now - that among pre-marks, even in situations of conditionality for neighbour's muds, the case of custody, that is, the life of a child, the generation that will determine things now and tomorrow, is classified. He will be tried by the same judge in the same room, in the same way, without the presence of a specialist, without a witness, without evidence, without an investigation, without an expert. He'll be tried. At the same time, all the "washings" of the family will come out in the country - hate, passion, obsessed, open fire wounds, a stench that makes a decisive addition to the tragedy - and a temporary order will be made for the assignment of custody, usually to the mother and more rarely to the father, with a completely helpless judge. I have listened to many and the rapporteur, whom I very much appreciate, of the Coupling, saying: 'But do we not trust the judges?' Why, does anyone say we don't trust the judges? But what are judges? The judges are skilled, my fellow Member, on matters of legal science. Are they sociologists? Are they psychologists? Are they social workers? Are they experts? They're forensics? Where do they draw this knowledge from? Who's helping them with this? They are challenging the seizure and attachment, and next to them they are judging a child’s life helpless. Most of them have a terrible stress when such cases are tried, because they have a huge responsibility on them. You know, if you're having an affair with them, and I mean a human relationship, if you're welcome, you see the other guy, what he's like, how he stands. And this responsibility is not solved by 'equivalent' or one third. You can't solve it, Minister. That's the problem. We would vote in favour of it as a step. But one step where? In the void? On the air? In a structure that doesn't exist. You build the first floor without the ground floor. I'm telling you again, a family court. Listen, because I've said it before, there's no one left. In my opinion, we have been disgusting. Older people who have put many, many stones in the building of democracy are looking at me too. Of course, the family law mentioned by our parliamentary representative and our rapporteur today was the great incision. It's an admission. But we didn't dare go any further in the family court. And we cannot, Minister, since I am given the opportunity - I say this with great appreciation to your face and you know it - without a family court and a drug court, justice cannot proceed to Greece. It's over. That's an admission. If you want to make a real reform, you won't do it either, with 1/3, or by mocking Daddy's ears, or dividing society into dads and moms. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this. Ladies and gentlemen, the defeat of democracy, in my opinion, is one, to fill our e-mails, your e-mails, your daily with protests from mom, father, grandparent, grandparent, aunt, aunt, and others, who, according to their experiences, either with one side or with another. So you don't solve the issues of democracy. The issues of democracy are resolved by moving forward with institutions, Minister. Just like that. And you can do it if you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Andreas Patsis has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr. Yannis Delis will speak from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to mention today's anniversary of the Pontian Genocide and say that in Grevena, the law from which I come, over eight villages of our prefecture, the twenty-two villages are Pontian. We can't forget the blood that was spilled, because it's our blood. A wise man who once asked about his parents answered that the first of all jobs God gave us the parent's career is the most important one and then sighed, what a shame only amateurs swallowed with it! Ladies and gentlemen, children are not property, but autonomous personalities, which must be raised in an environment that is safe, with much love and care from both parents, with family experiences of standards and performances in order to form a proper character and to be emotionally healthy and balanced. This, of course, not only when parents separate, but also when they stay together. And that cannot be defined by any legislator, because it is above all a matter of education and consciousness. Ladies and gentlemen, as a father I have grown up and raised children and as a lawyer I have managed family law cases, where unfortunately, in most cases children do not remain the purpose, but they become the instrument used for the personal differences and controversies of parents. It becomes the lever of emotional pressure, blackmail and unfortunately even revenge. One cannot claim that one of us does not know such cases in his family or friendly environment with the only real victims in the end children themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, conscientiousness is a state's obligation. Conscience is a right of children, but also a huge responsibility for parents. Parents must jointly create and ensure, wherever possible, a safe and healthy environment, so that the child develops in the same way, the same diligence and the same care as was before, that there are no great reversals in his life in any field and field. This, of course, means that the environment in which the child was already growing up was the right one and was healthy. Honestly, I didn't read and I didn't hear any position on this matter about how children grow up when parents are still married. So, before a couple splits up, is there the ungrateful presumption of the proper exercise of conspiracy and the problem arises after the separation? Let us not turn around. The hundreds of family disputes which are brought to the courts on a daily basis show, on the one hand, that parents are making their children part of their own problem and, on the other, that the environment in which they were growing was already problematic, did not arise after all, and responsibility is shared between fathers and mothers. I read and heard one, in my personal view, outrageous statement that this bill allegedly serves a strong Dad's minority. I heard about Daddy's lobby, and even a suggestion was made that some of us, those who agree with the Ministry's bill, are hostages of a lobby or are serving a lobby. I would like to ask the following question: Before the separation the parent has full custody rights, and then it should be limited? After separation, do any experts, as you present them, believe that the love of a parent to his child, care, caring, the need for communication and time with your child is reduced? So you're a partial parent? No, ladies and gentlemen. This bill restores the child to the center of care and invites both parents to do the same. It does not oblige them, but gives them full responsibility, moral responsibility above all. Same rights and the same obligations, because they chose to be parents, and that means I'm a parent. The bill provides for the fight - I repeat for the non-legislative - presumption of communication. In reality, this is what is currently in force and is provided for either in private contracts, when divorce occurs, or in the majority of judicial decisions. Have you calculated one day a week, every second weekend, five days Easter, five Christmas, ten or fifteen days in the summer what percentage of the thirty-sixty-five days is that? It's almost one-third. So what is all this reaction and supposed indignation? Because it is now guaranteed and regulated as a minimum fighter, of course, the 1/3 presumption? Why don't we want to have one/3? Did - and I ask you a different question - the parent who lives with the child and has contacted the other parent decides whether or not to move to another city, for example from Athens to Crete, can he do so today? Maybe. With this bill, can he do it? No, because this is how the right to real communication is protected. So don't worry about the rights of the child, don't worry about how to develop and what to do with a child's psychology, when this bill ensures that there will really be communication between both parents and that is not at stake. The home of the parent who doesn't live with him ceases to be a child's natural space? There was a lot of talk about the alternating residence, which harms the child against some. Doesn't the child hurt to live in grandparents, grandparents, uncles, brothers, relatives, nannies, friends and anything else, but not his parent? Or don't we know what's actually going on? And if anyone doesn't want or can't be a parent, there's also the natural judge who'll be called to decide what the child's best interests really are. Minister, if you would like my personal opinion and as a lawyer, I would like to tell you that I do not entirely agree with the drafting of specific programmes of the Court of Justice. There are very experienced judges who have dealt with and evaluated hundreds of thousands of cases of family law. But what needs to be anticipated is the speed in the adoption of judgments, civil and criminal, concerning family differences, and the most important thing is the application of judicial decisions, because, Minister, the majority of them are unfortunately not implemented, because parents always find the window not to implement them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President, Minister. To raise a child, ladies and gentlemen, not only is it about parents, but about the whole society, and it is the mortgage on future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Patsi. Mr. Yiannis Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece and then Mrs. Panagiota Dounia from New Democracy is prepared. He also said a previous colleague, who was presided over, that the parliamentary representatives can ask for the floor whenever you want, but not behind each other, to have two - three colleagues, and then the parliamentary representatives will speak. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of parental care and diligence following the dissolution of a marriage is in any case a complex social issue and, yes, the necessary changes in family law have already matured. But what changes do they need, with what content and in what direction? And to these questions the government bill's answers, as we will see, are either fragmentary or superficial and simply quantitative, but they are far from being the right answers to today's needs. And the reason why this is happening is simple. The issue of parental responsibility is dealt with in the bill as an issue solely of individual responsibility and as an issue which is limited strictly only within the limits of the family context. And yet, the issue of parental care, apart from individual and family care, also has an obvious social dimension, because even though parents are responsible for the daily care and rearing of the child, ultimately the overall development and education of a child does not depend, not only on family, because there is no family working in a social vacuum. We are all aware that this is how decisive economic and social conditions are in which parental relations and responsibility develop. In other words, we understand what this is important and how much this world affects children and what economic and social conditions. And that, of course, also applies to parental life. But that is what they are consciously trying to avoid the bill, and that is why, in the end, despite its own declarations and the efforts of the Coupling to present it as modern and effective, neither does it, nor can it provide substantial solutions to the complex issues of parental care arising after a divorce. The text constantly repeats the interest of the child. But let us see how the bill perceives this interest of the child. A simple reading of his articles is enough to find that the child’s interest is limited and is effectively exhausted in the effective communication of the child with his parents. Naturally this communication is necessary and necessary, but it is not enough, because the child has other health needs, education, sport, culture, but for them not a word in the bill. Of course, now, speaking of health and education, we do not forget that within the pandemic you have also found the opportunity to turn people's homes first into school classes with teletext and now too lately in self-tests diagnostic centres, showing us how you understand this interest of the child. Now tell me how can these basic social needs of the child be met in health, education, sport, culture, in the case of a poor divorced couple or an unemployed parent or two unemployed parents? Because not all divorced parents are rich. That is why we are calling for social and economic support for divorced people, as well as for all the people's families, in order to meet the needs of their children, since your state is provocatively indifferent to them. That's why we ask for the luxury allowance to be for parents, who have more than two children from different marriages. And that is why we must at last give that child's allowance from the state to the parent, who is temporarily diligent and not this allowance being delayed for up to two years until the final decision of the court is reached. All the above measures are of course fundamental, but they are not clearly absent from the bill. They are also in the amendments that have been tabled. We also want to hear the Government's view on these amendments and I mean the amendments tabled by the JRC. But even if we are staying, as the bill does, solely in the communication of the child with the divorced parents, how essential can this communication of parents and their children be in this jungle of working relations, in which parents work, with all these waste hours, which break them up by family program and make them all day long at work and streets, with the anxiety of unemployment and the bitterness of poverty practicing them? And you're not telling me, this anti-French monstrosity you're about to vote for, so that the unpaid work and life-tire of the workers can be further expanded, and that in the best interests of the child is done? Just when will the parent’s effective communication be made with his child? On Friday, when the parent has a day off, but his child will have school and afternoon extra-school activities or on Sundays when his child will have free time, but the parent will be obliged to work, after you and SYRIZA have arranged to abolish Sunday holidays for thirty-two - please! - On Sundays of the year in a bunch of industrial sectors? To sum up, how is this child's interest protected by a bill, which considers that the two parents' attempt to regulate their relationship with their child is only their individual case without any provision of state support? How, really, is the child’s interest protected with the clear absence of free state family planning services, with the lack of state counseling services for parents and children, dedicated to the right scientists? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more thing. For those, Minister, the extremely urgent cases, which are found to be a misinterpretation of parental responsibility and where the intervention of the prosecutor is deemed necessary not only, but must it be immediate as quickly as possible and quickly as possible, to extend the time limit for the public prosecutor's intervention from one month to three months, and indeed with the possibility of extending further three months, tell us, is that in the interests of the child and that? Or is this where the kids pay for subscribing the public prosecutor's services? The complex social issue - and I close, Mr President - of parental care cannot be entangled, cannot and must not be entangled among supporters of compulsory conscientiousness in a horizontal and quantified way of the divorce on the one hand and with the supporters of existing family law that raises its flag yesterday on the other. This issue can and must be addressed essentially first and foremost - first and foremost for the good of the child, only through the free state social services, the family courts, which are based on the opinions of the above-mentioned state services and, of course, the financial support of divorced parents, all that is missing from the bill, which is why we choose'represents' in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Ms. Dunia now has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr. Papaliou from SYRIZA. Mrs. Dunia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for each of us, whether or not we are parents, it goes without saying that once a couple has children, at the heart of their attention, these are now being placed. No matter how selfish we are as humans, when we bring a child into the world, the headlamp turns in a magical way to him and his needs. Our main concern is that our children be well, so we ensure that we provide them with a good level of living, a proper upbringing and a quality education. But, above all, we're trying to ensure their physical and mental health. This shift from ourselves and ours to what our children need is reasonable, but also necessary, because we have chosen to bring the children to this world and, on the other hand, because our children are absolutely in need of our protection and care to survive. Ladies and gentlemen, such as the centre of the family, as it is united, it is its smallest and weakest members, so it should also happen when parents cease to be a couple and decide to take separate personal streets. This is exactly what comes to ensure the bill of the Ministry of Justice we are discussing today. A new legislative framework, which will govern relations between parents and children in the critical period following the cessation of the cohabitation of the spouses, the divorce or the cancellation of the cohabitation agreement, that is, at the time that, unfortunately, parents are being drawn from their bitterness and anger to their former partner and are in danger of irreparable harming their children. The provisions to be adopted, which are interpreted and implemented, in accordance with international conventions binding our country, and in particular on the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and domestic violence, known to all us as the Istanbul Convention, constitute a paedophile reform. This means that, in their opinion, they have nothing but the real interest of children. In particular, the bill we are considering is based on the principle of non-discrimination between parents. In this context, it establishes a form of equality between parents, both in responsibilities and in rights vis-à-vis the child. The question, which arises, is how this equality is guaranteed in practice. This is ensured in principle by the joint exercise of parental care by both parents after divorce. This is a practice already in place in most European countries. Afterwards, equality between parents is an obligation to inform the parent, who resides with the child to the other parent, of the performance of documents relating to the child, of the establishment of alternative methods of resolving family differences, such as mediation as a means of resolving disputes relating to parental care, but also of having to obtain the consent of the parent who does not remain with the child on important issues relating to it, as is the obligation of the parent, which remains with him to strengthen his relationship with the other parent and his relatives. Let me mention here how disastrous it is for the psychology of divorced parents to be used as a means of vengeance for one parent to the other. By removing our child from his father or mother, respectively, as well as his grandparents and grandparents, as well as poisoning it with improper or inappropriate information on the opposition side, all we manage is to deprive him of a healthy parental, parental or parental pattern on a case-by-case basis. And of course, we'll create indelible mental injuries that will follow it throughout his later adult life. Every child needs both of his parents. That is why there is a minimum presumption of contact time with the parent with whom he does not live under the same roof. The introduction of this presumption, which is estimated at one third of the total year, creates an existing basis for dialogue between parents in order to avoid tensions between them on the right to communication. Exclusion or restriction of such communication is certainly possible, but only for extremely serious reasons. The Law of the Ministry of Justice also establishes objective criteria for the misuse of parental care. Among those criteria, taken into account by the court in dealing with matters of parental responsibility and custody of children, include non-payment of nutrition, non-respect for the judgments and agreements of divorced parents and the erosion of relations between the child and the other parent. Finally, a great innovation in the bill is also the intangible consensus divorce, which simplifys the divorce process and avoids the suffering of the spouses, and it is also very important to establish specific programmes at the National Court School for the training of judges, who will judge family differences. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing redefined the philosophy of the legislator in terms of parental relations with their children after the end of the parental relationship. Thus family law proceeds from the one-dimensional exercise of parental care as a rule by both parents. And I say as a rule, because parents are always given the opportunity to agree something else. Of course, if it is necessary, there is always a legal way. The authority of the judge is in no way limited to providing it with new legal instruments, which are better suited to the current data of the family. There is no doubt that the active presence of both parents is essential for the mental development of each child’s personality, whether this came from a marriage or a relationship outside marriage and was voluntaryly or judicially recognised, on the initiative of the father. Children feel safe, complete and happy only if they spend time with both parents. They need both to be practically involved in their lives, to be next to them at every good or bad time. And we can only respect and meet this need by putting our children's interests above any of our personal negative feelings. Our children are the future and the hope of the world and we must do everything we can to raise them in such a way that they become happy, balanced and useful in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dunia. Mr Georgios Papaliou has the floor and then Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis from Mera25 is prepared. Here, Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, any reform of family law must be a process in which society as a whole is involved, because it is concerned with society as a whole. It must be a transparent process that seeks broad consensus and nonetheless causes polarization and division. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Justice bill has moved in the opposite direction. Nor does it respond to the changes that today's society needs, nor does it unite. It's on the contrary. This is also confirmed by the report by the Scientific Service of the Parliament, which you are unfortunately ignorant of, Mr Ministers, since you have also denounced the conclusion of the Legislative Committee and the Society of Family Law and the plenary session of the Bar Associations, but also your own officials who have documentedly argued against the spirit and specific provisions of the bill. The draft law seeks to establish compulsory conscientiousness and alternating residence, without, of course, making explicit reference to them. Consistency is already regulated by current law and when there is a weakness of parental agreement, the court specialises in the way it is exercised, first defending the best interests of the child. In any change in the relationship between parents and children, the basic criterion and ultimately a request must be the interest of the child, the fulfilment of his or her needs and the protection of his or her rights. This serves the interest of the child protected by the Constitution and international conventions. Because the child is an arbitrary person, who has the same rights, and these rights must not involve the rights and wishes of parents, much more when there is a stop to married cohabitation. It should therefore be the approach on a case-by-case basis and in the light of the particular circumstances of each family. The court is therefore given the opportunity to choose the most appropriate arrangement of parental care and care, as dictated by European law incorporated into Greek legislation for the protection of the child, as well as by various provisions of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. The bill requires that - jointly and equally - the exercise of parental care in an automatic manner. The reference to the exercise of parental responsibility is, in our view, inappropriate, inaccurate and dangerous, since it is not even provided for in marriage. It is a sign of imposing compulsory condolence, as the report of the House's Scientific Service says. The 'equivalent' may be replaced by 'equivalent' so that it cannot be misinterpreted, since the rate, which has a qualitative and non-quantitative dimension, is included in the concept of joint exercise. In accordance with the proposed provisions, parental care may be removed from the parent if it is deemed to be responsible for disrupting the emotional relationship between the child and the other parent and his family, and for the challenge of breaking relations with them in any way. In this way vague and vague criteria are introduced, which may even lead to the removal of parental care, while in contrast to that, it is predicted that a abused parent can exercise parental care or come into contact with the child until it is finalised, which of course requires time, because it is known that the relevant procedure is timely. This is contrary to common sense and to the Istanbul Convention and, of course, to the interests of the child, which requires that any suspicion of abuse should be investigated by means of criminal prosecution in order to remove the rights of the suspect. In this context, forced condolence, even in cases under investigation, puts the child at risk and the most vulnerable parent. The solution, therefore, is not forced conscientiousness, nor, of course, the distribution of time in a compulsory manner and without individualisation. With regard to the minimum communication time, the forecast one/3 of the total year is an indefinite arithmetic, quantitative size that refers to assets and property with the participation in acquisitions and which is not offered to regulate communication issues for parents and children. In addition, time-calculating problems arise, taking into account the fact that working relationships now, in this case and parents, are not characterised by stability. Apart from setting up family courts, there is also a need for the creation of supportive social structures, which are provided with scientists, family social workers, paedophiles, and child psychologists, who will support families by collaborating in the work of custody. Instead, the bill introduces exceptional training programmes for judges and prosecutors who will judge family affairs. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current draft law attempts to alter the pediatric status of Greek family law in a genocide, undermines the interests of the child, protected by international conventions, instead putting the interests and wishes of parents at the centre of the proposed arrangements. The child is treated as a passive recipient of parental rights and not as a real provider of needs that require satisfaction. The interest of the child must therefore be judged on a case-by-case basis because each case is separate. And in this context it is dangerous that the provision that requires - you have removed the'mutual' - definitive conviction of incidents of domestic violence in cases of parental custody and communication and has to be withdrawn as it violates the rights of the victims. Because it is well known that it takes many years to make a final decision, thereby allowing - abused - parents to continue their abuse against their former partners and children, on the basis of their claim only as parents for care and communication with the child. Finally, it should be stressed that with many of the arrangements of the bill the letter and the spirit of the Istanbul Convention, which Greece has ratified for three years and has not actually implemented most of its provisions. Legislation in cases of domestic violence contradicts the content of the European Parliament's report on the impact of domestic violence and parental custody. The report states that the exercise of rights of visiting or diligence should not jeopardise the rights and safety of the victim or children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u104	Thank you too, Mr. Papaliou. Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis from Mera25 has the floor, and then Mr Savvas Snowides from New Democracy will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, MPs and MPs, I'm a new father. I have a two-year-old son and a five-year-old daughter. I belong to a new generation of fathers, who participate equally in raising their children and are not a criterion for the time and energy they give if they are a father or a mother, but the time that is available every moment of their lives. I can't tell you how blessed I feel to have these kids in my life. I fight politically for the rights of fathers against a specific sexism that considers the role of father less important than mother's. I fight for equal and sufficient time for both parents and mothers, so that they can be with their children in the first year of their lives, full-time and part-time leave for the second year and full-time pay again. It's very important these two years. They lay the foundations at this proletarian stage of the child, the foundations for the whole of his mentality, for the rest of his life. We proposed and proposed that the Constitutional Review should include the protection of paternity with motherhood, which is already enshrined in the Constitution. A proposal that, unfortunately, both the New Democracy and SYRIZA refused to enter the debate. Is there a problem with children's custody today? Yes, there is. It's a huge problem. I have friends, excellent fathers, who have lost custody of their children in the courts by a judicial inertia that wants judges as a rule to give custody to the mother. Is that a legislative problem? Oh, no. The 1983 Act is clear and speaks of a personalised examination of each case, each family. So where is the problem identified? It shall be located in the courts, the judges. And that should be the solution. As MERA25, we propose that fundamentally rebuilding family courts, with their support in all specialities, by qualified judges, social workers, psychologists and relocation to infrastructures outside the contractual courts, so that ad hoc assessment, with the sole and absolute criterion of protecting children's rights, is best carried out. Is that the bill we have in front of us? Unfortunately, this bill, like so many others that the government brings, distorts even positive concepts from one another. It is a lobbying product, as Mrs Giannakou denounced, with which I worked as a MEP in 2009-2014, when she was the same MEP. I will not forget her dignity and obsession to remain over-party. I would like to congratulate her on her courage, because I know very well that in this Parliament, which has been structured to keep the party line and, obviously, especially for the big parties, for the government's parties, which have so many rules that the Member does not even have a chance to differentiate himself, its differentiation does not come without any cost and loneliness. And I would like to congratulate her twice. What's this bill doing? It turns the child into a property, divided regardless of the family context in which it grows and is malicious. It will be separated between parents as they separate about their property, homes, property. It's shocking. The second thing it does, which is just as hard, is that it gives the malicious husband a gun to capture the mother - victim of domestic violence in the malicious relationship, at least as young as the children are. Only when a parent is convicted, then only he loses conscientiousness. And I'm saying parent, because it could be a mother's abuse of behavior. This is why the 1983 Act provides for an individual examination of each case. There are cases where even with this judicial inertia children were given to fathers. I would like to point out what Amnesty International says yesterday. It is a bitter irony that Greece is thinking of approving this amendment a few days after the 10th anniversary of the Istanbul Convention, the Treaty - a milestone for preventing and combating violence against women was applauded. The proposed provision would violate Greece's obligation under the Treaty of Istanbul, which requires Member States to take measures to ensure that the rights of custody and communication do not jeopardise the rights and safety of survivors of domestic violence, as well as its children witnesses and calls on the Greek authorities to withdraw the bill. Why are you bringing this bill? Mrs Giannakou spoke of lobbies, about'strong people with a lot of money', as she said. What would the correct implementation of the 1983 Act require? It would require strengthening public social services, strengthening the social state, which, unfortunately, seems to be the case in every bill, you are despised. That is why you could bring even worse things, such as privatising the social workers and being able to hire them and reward the abused husband. Besides, isn't that what you're doing in Squirrels? Didn't you give the company the unilateral right to examine, hire and reward the environmental inspector, who will be an employee in practice, who will examine all complaints of citizens about environmental damage and pollution? That's the same thing, isn't it? The reason why you don't do it is because the lobbies didn't ask again. But when you sacrifice the environment on the altar of private profit in Skouria and so many other places, we do not question that one day you would sacrifice children and hand them over to malicious family environments, abused parents, but also women victims of domestic violence, which you obligate them to remain forever in malicious relations. Mera25 is clearly against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u106	Mr Snowides from New Democracy has the floor now, and then Ms. Merope Jufi from SYRIZA. Mr. Snowides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that in recent years society has changed rapidly. Of course, if we are talking about the 1980s, which has actually become an interesting law, which has been part of family law, we are not entitled today, following these rapid changes, when we are told by evidence that there is a need for a substantial change, not to make that direction. Of course, in this huge economic crisis of recent years, as well as in the coronary crisis, some would say that it is a luxury to deal with issues relating to society. Nevertheless, the Mitsotakis Government and the Ministry, the Minister and the State Secretary, are dealing with these issues because they are critical and election commitments. Why, then, does there need to be a change? The decent and serious rapporteur of SYRIZA, Mr Xanthopoulou, who has submitted evidence that 86% is not going to court at all, that those who go do not go to the second degree except for insurance measures and only 2.5% are going to the second degree. And anyone asks: isn't it very nice? No, no one goes to the courts, because he knows at the outset that it will not be justified, because 97% of the decisions are 'false' precisely in the case law that has been done. So this for me supports the opposite, namely that it is clearly necessary to change the legal framework and that is what is happening here. Therefore, we move on to have another parental perception. I have listened very carefully to the points of view, as I have been following this issue for a year and a half and I have watched all those who have been put. I am pleased that there has been a serious debate by all the rapporteurs in this law, despite all the contradictions that have arisen. Our difference now, apparently, ends up as a top of 'equivalent' or 'equivalent'. One comes and says now, Minister, if that really is a coma, why not include in marriage cohabitation 'jointly' and 'excellently'? A small amendment, which is just assembled. So I propose this to end this. Then we're gonna be okay? And within the wedding and after the wedding. That is the proposal I put forward. Of course, this bill creates a culture of understanding and I mentioned the facts. You don't go before the winner or avenger, often using the child. I am not saying this for the whole, but for these few times. So, you say, I agree. Of course, as far as parental care is concerned, it is clear that both parents must be equally and jointly cared for, as is the case with marriage, because this love and care for the child and the divorced, above all, is the father who does not usually have custody or by grandparents and relatives, in order to feel this great love. That solves this bill, putting the 30-70 clause in it. Should a clause be entered or not? Of course we should, because that's what they gave us all the statistics. Otherwise, there was no chance of having time for father primarily, but also for some mothers who lost custody. Is that reasonable? Of course, it makes sense, so that the father can no longer be a visitor, not a grandparent, give his parental care and love. Do they have to decide together? Clearly you must. What else does the bill define? That we're now going to arbitration, mediation. Therefore, there is a need for substantiated positions of the ombudsmen, and at second time, Minister, in the weakest part of the economy, as in the various courts the public lawyers are paid, the ombudsman may also be paid, if there is a proven failure to pay the mediation. Possibly there is and I don't know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u108	There is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u109	And where does it end? Because there's been a lot of noise. It concludes that the natural judge shall examine on a case-by-case basis and not horizontally. Do you know a court to examine cases horizontally? Every case comes to the natural judge. This is quite clear, so that there is no feeling that ultimately the decision, if they do not reach an agreement, will be taken by a third party or, anyway, will be enforced by the law. The law defines elements which each political leadership must sense in order to bring what society itself demands. I want to stress one last point and close. He wants a soul's bravery to make incisions to decide against the current. Many people thought, we heard about lobby or anything else. I don't like them. What I want to say for sure is that you owe it as a politician, as the leader of a sector of such great importance, and in particular to these social issues, such as justice, to have the courage that they have never dared - because many in recent years have caught it - to be able to bring it here and with the objections and different opinions. It's for sure. As I have also said, many times the committees have their views. They're the ones who advise. This does not mean, however, that the final decision must be in accordance with the advice. I hope and believe that the case-law that will emerge over the coming years will justify this effort and if additional things are needed, such as, for example, making state social structures and improving them even more, it is of course a matter for the state to do more. But we must respond to that. I call on everyone, as, Minister, to accept both 'joint' and 'equal' for married life, I believe that there will no longer be any question of voting for this important draft law and making it a law of the state next week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Snowides. Ms. Merope Jufi from SYRIZA will now take the floor and Mrs. Marietta Giannaku will follow from New Democracy. Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are indeed honouring the memory of the victims of the Pontian Genocide, which led to the death and uprooting of their ancestral homes an important part of Hellenism with a long history. But we also honour the Pontius' contribution to the social, cultural and economic restoration of our country and my country of origin, the Ioannina, where we have many such people who have contributed very much to the Ioannina Prefecture. I now come to the bill, a bill which, unfortunately, works politicically and where its implementation will affect society and its institutions horizontally and catalysts. Despite calls by the special scientists, the Opposition, to withdraw the bill or to accept significant changes in many of his articles, the government has so far shown rigid and immobile and insisted on its vote. The Minister did not listen to the appeals of women's organisations, the plenary session of lawyers, the most serious objections of the Scientific Service of the Parliament, the Society of Family Law, as well as the most specialized scientists with experience and deep knowledge of the theory and the needs of the child's interests, the Greek paedophiliacs. In fact, first of all, the hearing of bodies excluded from the Greek Paedophilia Society and required a special effort from a pool of opposition to be called, while various bodies of much smaller prestige and range had been included. Obviously, their criticism was that there should not be horizontal and rigid regulations, but there should be individualisation, which each time takes into account the particular circumstances, the availability and suitability of parents, but also development factors on the part of the child, as it is the treatment of infants and other adolescents, their mental health, and all forms of custody and communication of children and parents should be provided, and every time we choose the most suitable for the child in question, without imposing a mandatory regulation of conscientiousness and compulsory residence for children with each of the parents. You have disputed, Minister, as I said, about the proposals by the opposition parties, saying that they do not exist or that they are unrealistic, even for the protests of important officials of your prolongation - Mrs Giannakou, Mrs Kefaloyannis - who have tabled concrete amendments. You have remained unmoved and continue to satisfy a small portion of strong interests, as has already been denounced within Parliament. The minor changes that have taken place do not change the substance of the bill. There is an authoritarian spirit and an obsession with anachronistic patriarchal perceptions. Unfortunately, for the New Democracy, gender equality and the interests of the child with choice were also degenerated this time in communication practices and political purposes. So you're going to have to legislate about a very small number of parents. You give them the right, but not the obligations, to the benefit of the child's interests. The Citizens' Counselor has also pointed this out to you, where he told you that the rights of the child are not fully guaranteed by this bill and that functionality is weakened, and that the duty of parents towards children is waived. Therefore, Minister, the bill is not a child center, it is a genome. What about the worst? Instead of eliminating stereotypes, it creates two speed parents: The parent who usually has only rights and the parent - usually the mother - who should account for the other parent, to promote relationships with grandparents, to communicate with the husband every day. From there, then, there is the obligation within your bill, but also his fault if he does not. This is the core of the bill. In addition, you are deciding horizontally for all children in our country, regardless of their parents' social and economic position, their place of residence, nationality. He is a catalyst - Mr Arseny said so too - Amnesty International in yesterday's post, where he points out that the parental rights of offenders of domestic violence or sexual offences can only cease or be restricted by a final judgment at first instance condemning them for these offences. Until this finalizes, it takes two to five years and until then the perpetrators can have access to their victims, which creates a great deal of concern. In France, the right to parental care and to communicate with the child has been suspended since the beginning of the criminal prosecution. There are also recent, unfortunately, dramatic incidents in our country too. Go ahead with this correction, Minister. Family law is influenced - one of the most progressive in our country - and has a considerable impact on the social environment. That is why each country must have its own rules and obligations, which obviously need to be updated. It is only for this reason that time and stronger consensus is needed. You, Minister, have rejected even the positions of the Legislative Committee that you have set up and adopted extremely minority opinions within it. Therefore, trying to regulate people's serious personal relations, family affairs, cannot be done with this type of bill. Training seminars for judges are an important step, it is a positive step. But it's not enough. You need to move - and we have told you many - on the establishment of family courts, which exist throughout Europe, with specialised judges - and, of course, you can also use the Recovery Fund in this direction - and with scientific committees supporting the judicial work, by establishing a body of family social workers, provided for by a law of 1996, which, in cooperation with the judiciary, will address the issues of parental care and conscientiousness individually, by developing a climate of consensus and cooperation in the interests of the child. Unfortunately, the bill forgets completely and modern forms of couples that are non-existent - homosexual couples, single-parent families who are completely ignored - even though this is provided for by international conventions and Istanbul and the Convention on the Rights of the Child caring for it. Therefore, there are no innovative provisions in this bill that they should have and should have. Instead of modernising old family law, then, you are moving in the opposite direction. In fact, the government officials in charge of the family are absent from the bill... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. ..such as the Deputy Minister of Family Policy, which shows the engraving and isolation of the bill in the agony of a minority group, ignoring what I said before, the need to regenerate family law in the direction of the modern problems of the Greek family and society. Minister, you still have time to withdraw the provisions that have caused reactions to the Greek Parliament and the majority of the bodies. It is time to address the child's interest not formally and improperly, but essentially, efficiently and in line with the dictates and needs of modern society, with the necessary institutional framework, with the special public structures of a social solidarity state that is absolutely necessary to build and exist. This, of course, requires political changes. For a minute, I would also like to support an amendment that we have tabled by SYRIZA, Amendment 894/73, to solve the pension problem of teachers who have been made available in 2013. The proposed amendment stipulates that teachers and civil servants have been made available by Law 4172/2013 and for the purpose of extracting the average of their pension earnings, the months that have been made available are calculated on the basis of the remuneration of June 2013, the last, i.e. their working month before being put into unjust availability and losing 25% of their earnings for about two years. We are tabling this amendment, which is an OLEME proposal to all the groups on the grounds of fundamental justice. We would remind you that in 2013 the New Democracy Government put in flagrant unjust availability - that is, the premise - of redundancies - two thousand five hundred teachers, resulting in the depreciation of public vocational education. SYRIZA, as a government, tried to correct the damage suffered by the institution of vocational education, but also upgraded it, inter alia, by reintroducing teachers from availability. It is a moral obligation for the government and all the parties in this House to restore, at least, the lifelong impact that this unfair measure had on the availability of teachers. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too. Mrs Marietta Giannakou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, no one disputes the government's right to propose changes to certain provisions of family law, which have lasted thirty-eight years. For months I have waited for a clean draft law that better clarifies the author's genuine will. My proposals were well known. I mentioned them in detail during the committee meetings. All you accepted from the amendments we tabled was in part what we referred to you in the amendment to Article 3 on confusion in the residence of a minor. Nothing else. No substantial change. You insist on something that will create more problems than he wants to solve. You blame all those who have made suggestions that we are not interested in the best interests of the child and that we are taking a stand in favour of one or another parent. On Monday, of course, it was the culmination. On the radio - first theme - you accused me and Mrs Kefaliannis of our objections coming from personal experiences. Thank you very much for your interest, Minister, but that is not the case. Our objections come from common sense and knowledge of science. As an old member of the New Democracy I would like to tell you that I have sincerely been surprised. Because within the temple of democracy you have challenged the right of Members to give their opinion freely. But we have not tabled the draft law, Minister. You do. Your text reveals its generic logic. Most of the provisions, which exist, show that they have not been formulated on the basis and focused of the child, but on the wishes of the parents. The important thing in this draft law, however, must not be parents but children's rights. I should like to make a few misinterpretations, but also to stress that the proposals which I have tabled relate to legal errors. I am against horizontal evidence of time in communication with the child with his parents. Now, where did the Minister find that 90% of parents who decide to divide are excluded from communication with their children, when 86% of divorces and communication arrangements become consensusful, only he knows it. I'm also against compulsoryity. I have never been in favour of compulsory quotas, let alone of general and horizontal criteria. It is good to address the scientific community, which shows what common sense says. Children need both parents. There's no reasonable man to question that. I must not, however, tell you many times - that there should be a horizontal and rigid regulation of children's custody. Every day we have to manage that parent who has custody. Also with regard to parental care, ‘equivalent’ suggests a time period and a reduced diet. Furthermore, trying to impose it where there is no need to overcome one parent's negative feelings against another parent and sincere cooperation between them will probably cause more problems than it is supposed to solve. In addition, it will be an opportunity for further trials to be carried out. Parenthood is primarily an obligation on children and not individual parental rights. It is also important whenever the child needs to see his parents without obstacles from one another. In this respect, the issue raised by the draft law is social, scientific and ultimately ethical, Minister. The compulsory quotas do not match the regulation of social realities and family issues and usually result in the opposite results. We tell you that a law cannot prejudge and contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, in fact by guideting the judge. For the ban on changing the child's place of residence without the consent of the other parent, of course, where there is no agreement the court will judge. However, since there is always a risk that a long-standing dispute will be maintained and the irrevocable decision to be taken after many years, even after the adulthood of children, it is important to provide for the possibility of direct regulation of such problems. Finally, you told us that in matters of domestic violence by final decision, you made it a final one. So the malicious parent will find legal grounds for interfering with and for continuing his malicious behavior. "Authorized act" is the right thing to do. This also exists in other countries of the European Union which you invoke. In conclusion, if you think that all of us are oppositioning and serving micro-political interests, do you not wonder why all the real scientific bodies invited to contribute, in other words, the paedophile company, the members of the lawmakers, the universities, the plenary presidents of lawyers, made the same points as I mentioned in detail? And they're making opposition? And in the end, does the Scientific Service of the Parliament opposition to all the amendments that we have submitted in total, Minister? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I am very afraid that the draft law will create more legal appeals and tensions and once it does not change 'equivalent', '1/3' and 'definitive', I cannot vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Yannaku. The next speaker is Mr Manosos Voloudakis from New Democracy, and then Mrs Athanasia Anagnastopoulou from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Voloudakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the thirty-eight years since the last revision of family law, much has changed in society, in the family, in how we see the family and many problems have been created in the lives of people and of the family, which legislation has so far not been tackled. The reform of family law, therefore, is obviously necessary in many respects. With the bill, which we are debating today, many positive steps are being taken to deal with many of the new problems that have arisen and to respond to the pathogens that we have seen in practice. The truth is that public dialogue is dominated by this issue with a particular emphasis on the part of many people most of them divorced fathers - it is the truth - on the issue of the conscientiousness of their children. In fact, many of them have demanded - there is, as a request, that we hear it in this Chamber - the conscientiousness that leads to the child's changing residence. I am, ladies and gentlemen, a father of three children, and I can understand fathers. I understand the agony of fathers, who have not been able to continue with their wife and who are in situations which often result in decisions that do not give rise to justice, which harm children and, in many cases, it is a fact that we have seen and know that the institutional framework, which does not respond to today's needs, can make some fathers victims even blackmail with their children. And that really needs to be addressed. But, ladies and gentlemen, that cannot mean changing residence. And the law rightly does not provide for such a and rightly the law does not try to share, in the article in which reference is made, the time spent by parents and children, because the child must have a residence. My father's status doesn't make me follow anything the fathers say, because it matters to me what I think is the child's interest. So it is right that the bill does not follow the trend which we have seen very strongly to develop - it is the truth - in society and in public dialogue. I believe that this one-third of the year, Minister, which you have put in, is a compromise that is reasonable in any case. Perhaps it could be a little more specific about how it is shown and what it is about. In any case, however, it is a reasonable compromise. Also rightly in this article, and in general, the bill allows the judge to judge on a case-by-case basis. Because we really cannot predict everything, ladies and gentlemen, as far as human beings are concerned. Not everything can get into the terms of a law. I'm sure the judge has a role here. And that's what we have to respect. The draft law also raises the question of the training of judges, but also provides for mediation. And we really would like all these cases to be resolved by mediation rather than by courtrooms. Now another point that has been made a great deal of mention is Article 7 with reference to children's joint and equally diligence. First of all, I should like to make it clear that the current situation does indeed pose problems, and indeed does not respond to what today's needs are. Because our Civil Code predicts the court gives custody to one of the two parents and the case is over. This is generally and that really cannot be the reality, because the truth is that parents may not be able to live with each other, but that does not mean that they do not love their children or they cannot raise their children. So they must clearly have due diligence together and you are right to bring the urban code into line so that there can be joint diligence. But, Minister, I really am one of those who listen to the opinion and I share it, that two words go awkward. The "equal" is too much. It is enough for the 'joint'. Because it can cause confusion. We must be very precise and detailed in these matters. It is not a reform that is essential, and it is in the right direction, and it will solve chronic problems, and it will facilitate people who are being blackmailed, as we have said before, it is not right for such a minor change in the two words, but it is very substantial, to be put into doubt. Because the suspicion - some colleagues have said so - that by reference to 'equivalent' diligence we are driving, through the road or through the window, into a time-sharing in two, which would be wrong. Because, as I said before, the child must have a residence, the child must have his seat, his base. This is what experts, pediatricians, pediatricians and all those with specialties in this area are saying. We should not add terms to a piece of legislation that aims to direct judges in cases very difficult and enable them to deal with reality as it stands today. We must not add conditions that can create any ambiguity. So, Minister, I would invite you to reconsider this. I know your opinion. I have also heard the opinion of other colleagues and eminent legal members. I am not a legal person, I have to say that as a reservation. I have heard the objection by colleagues and eminent legal experts - my dear colleague, Mr Buga - who says that if the law defines in detail how joint custody is exercised, there is no confusion. But again, I will say, well, since it is clearly defined in the law that is sufficient, why add that phrase, which was not in existence today, and which cannot be precisely defined by this 'equivalent'? That's all I had to say. I hope that we will achieve the best possible result in the interests of children above all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Voloudakis. Mrs Anagnastopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u117	Mr. President, aren't I right after?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Loverdo, will you speak immediately after Mrs. Anagnastopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u120	Good. After Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, Mr. Loverdos will speak and then Mrs. Kefaliannis will speak. After Mrs Kefaliannis, the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Ragussis will speak. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. After Mrs. Marietta Giannakou, I really wouldn't have said a word. And I call on Mrs Giannakou, not as a politician from New Democracy, which favours the SYRIZA's position, but as a right-wing politician, with ever-democratic beliefs, equality beliefs, with which I disagree in many respects and respect her deeply. He gave examples of democratic consultation within Parliament. Well done, Mrs. Yannaku. This does not favour the opposition, favours all Parliament and political life. Minister, a bill that tends to change an important, very important law, such as family law, must ensure democratic consensus. Members cannot go up here and you yourself can disapprove the opposition voice, disapprove the opposite voices, just because they do not fit in your own beliefs. I have heard Mr Snowides say that we have courage, that the government has courage to bring such a bill. The government has the courage to bring such a bill, like many other bills. He has courage in practices, which really put at risk... Please, please, what about these voices, we cannot concentrate. So it has a lot of courage with practices that conflict with the democratic feeling. I will only tell you, Minister - you are the Minister of Justice - that today at dawn, and so far, police forces are stirring up another monument, another culture, the 'EMPROS' theatre. They got inside, in a self-managed space, a cultural space for a decade, and now they're shutting him down, pricking him. So we're talking a lot of nerve. But let me come to the bill. Minister, what is the question you're trying to answer with the bill? What social realities, moral realities, traditions - realities and international realities are they trying to answer the bill? When the scientific community, when international and Greek organisations, when today, at the moment we are talking about, there are signatures of organisations and people internationally against the bill, and indeed appealing to the Prime Minister not to vote on the bill, I wanted to know how you ensure consensus on a bill, which must have democratic consensus, because it is about the whole of society and because it is about the most valuable, we all say, we claim, a part of society, which is the children and is the future of the country. We didn't see this all. One more question I want to ask. Where is the Minister responsible for equality? Where is the State Secretary for Family Life? We did not see it, we did not answer it, we did not hear a word from it. Is it possible for such a bill to be discussed and not to be here to be placed and discussed with us? Of course, the government has seen from the outset how it treats gender equality with the deterioration of the General Secretariat of Equality, but this also relates to the draft law we are debating. If there is a major issue that we could discuss today and we could have opened a democratic debate for a long time, both in television and in public steps and everywhere, with all, organizations and women's organisations, and scientific bodies, psychologists, and pediatricians, and sociologists, etc., if there is a major issue in which the '83 family law', this large section and the print of a progressive direction, which had left this bill, would be to deal first and foremost with what is now revealed by society itself, which is domestic violence and parents. So instead of discussing this and how it will be cured, and within the family as long as the couple cohabits, but also when cohabitation, marriage or any form of cohabitation stops, here we have a bill that instead of protecting the child, instead of putting it at the centre, instead of at all costs ensuring the rights of the child, what it does is ensuring parental rights. Here, there's a huge problem. And there is another problem, which is behind it: Instead of gender equality, as defined by these phrases, wording, 'equivalent', and quantification, 1/3 against 2/3 etc., instead of talking about gender equality, we are moving into a gender conflict. Watch this too. And instead of talking about child rights, we're talking about parental rights now. So I have to suggest, Minister, that you withdraw the bill and all the organisations discuss it, that the scientific bodies discuss everything, that we do not go into situations which will be very bad. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, I don't have time, because I had a lot to say. We should leave the logic that the child serves parents and not that parents are in the interests and protection of children's rights. Minister, when you say 'equivalent' and indeed, this 'equivalent' is about cases where we may have poor parents, and indeed it is defined, from final to final decision, what exactly do you mean? That is what you must answer clearly. Otherwise, all this over-effect, which has been done by society lately, by society itself - is calling us something and we are obliged to hear it - you throw it in the trash. You leave the child herd in the name of the parent's rights. You're leaving the child herd in such situations. This is inconsistent with any international convention, whether Istanbul or the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is a wishful task, and indeed, the attitudes must be changed and everyone must move in that direction. The joint diligence of building itself already within cohabitation. And there is a need for bold institutional changes, but also for changes in attitudes. So only we could talk about equal diligence and after the solution, when these attitudes changed, and with institutional safeguards with the family courts. We've all told you here, the MPs, the Opposition and the Couple. Pay attention, Minister. We're not talking about us, we're not talking about adults, we're talking about kids. For us, of course, that's what children need, love. Love is not the privilege of one parent against another. Love is the privilege of all who love a child. That's what we want to make. But don't direct it to other streets, which also undermine equality...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u122	Please complete, Mrs. Anagnastopoulou. You've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u123	Yeah, you're right. I'm sorry. ...and restore attitudes, which are completely anachronistic, but will create huge problems in Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, too. Now, Mr. Loverdos has the floor from the Change Movement. In order to organize the debate, I should like to tell you what changes have been made. After Mr. Loverdos, the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Mylonakis, then Ms. Kefaloniann, then Mr. Synthrakis and then Mr. Ragousis, the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, will speak. Mr Ragosissis, before it was a mistake to the Bureau, because Mr Mylonis has said. The world hasn't been lost for a while. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by invoking today's article in the 'News' of the University Professor and our colleague in the previous term of the Parliament, Theodoros Papatheodorou, which states that for the past thirty years, in many Member States of Europe, the main trend is to see the cases of conflict between two parents for the sake of the child. And because we have to look at it for the sake of the child, to see that we are making legislation where parental care is not reserved - it is not good for the child to look after - only for one parent, but for both. It is worth reading Mr Papatheodorou's text. I repeat, it is now 'new'. It is a trend, a move, which has produced very interesting comparative data. There is a breakdown for each country separately. However, I am in the Minutes because the examples here are clear and very much - Minister, I rarely submit to the Minutes, because we are loading the libraries and chambers of Parliament without any sense - a summary of the countries, the Member States of the European Union, the countries of Europe, which have more progressive legislation than we have just mentioned. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But what am I talking about? I have heard from TV, I have heard from the public debate, and now I have heard two speeches. What are we talking about? He was given a very nice title by Marietta Papadatos - Pastos, who is scientifically recommended: "Consistency in cases of high parental conflict". I also have a summary of this thought by the teacher, whose title I have noted, which is the exact scientific title for the subject we are talking about. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go a little bit simpler. When is Parliament and its laws useful? Are the ministers, the ombudsmen, the judges ever useful? They are in these cases where parents do not have the level, both or one of them, to agree. Then the House and its laws are useful. The ombudsmen and the judges are useful then. Where the people are going to say it - parents don't find it. And not only do they not find them, but they collide very much, resulting in vengeance and hatred. When a parent speaks to them, I don't just respect them, but I bow. Because whatever he says, whether I agree or disagree - I repeat, and I am a legal person, I am not an economist or a sociologist - I respect all the opposite points of view. But I bow to where one speaks experientially, because he has the problem in his home. I respect him no matter what he says, no matter how much we disagree. However, when the legislator responds logically and sees what he has to solve it, he must have understood it. And here, they don't solve the experiences. We cannot have three hundred experiential Members and parties on conspiracy. But we have some people, the rest of us can see it cooler. What's our point? Our point is that today, as the Civil Code is designed in Article 1511, in principle, there are problems in practice. If you read, ladies and gentlemen, and bother, you who say that you are not legal, and yet you speak, in 1511, will fully agree with the provision. I'm fine. And I am glad to say that family law, as it is designed, is the product of PASOK and the great reform of the Government of Andreas Papandreou in the 1980s. That's true. Who objects to this? If you read the article - I do not believe there is a colleague who takes the floor without having read the article - you will see that he says it perfectly. But is the act referred to in Article conceived? No, I'm afraid so. While the interest of the child wants to promote family law as it stands today, while understanding about the conflicting parents, the application, i.e. the decisions of the courts, is very much - over 90% - one-sided. They see one side and think that parental care, custody, is basically the mother. Does the Urban Code say that? But no! But dramas are going to court. Because to go to court, you don't go because you disagree, you go because you're in conflict. Dispute is settled by agreement. Those who have a family know that. Do you have a high culture to lift over conflict? Yeah, a lot of people have him. However, many do not have him and collide and use the child. For these cases, I invited the then Ministers of SYRIZA, Mr. Paradigopoulos first, to speed up changes in family law, giving priority to issues relating to custody of children. Mr Paradoxopoulos was positive, I do not know exactly what direction he was going to take, but he wanted to make a change in this area and promised it. Read the minutes of the House. In fact, there were disagreements on the refusal of the next, Mr. Kontonis, who did not want, who believed that things were fine and I respect his point of view. I respect his opinion, as I respect every other point of view. In our own party with Mrs Giannakopoulou, with whom I am linked and which I admit, we have disagreed, but we both regard this as sound. Because we both have the same motives. Neither of us speak experientially, but we speak in our opinion, and we must respect each other. Are these topics for party conflicts or intra-party conflicts? I am interested in saying what Mrs Giannakou says, about throwing them in the New Democracy, or what does that or that of other parties say? I'm out of it. Whoever wants to stay inside them, let them stay inside them. But the issue does not require such attitudes. So here, because the case law was thus formulated, I asked SYRIZA Ministers to take some measures. Friday, Kalogerou were positive in their statements. The call was made in the House. There are the Minutes. Condonus was a clear negative, but clean. You were respecting what he was saying. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] What Minister responded? This is Mr. Tsiaras. However, the Minister who responded, made a legislative committee, spent two years and brings a regulation here. What should we see as a Parliament, to see whether this arrangement is a step forward? It is not right, ladies and gentlemen, that the law should be very specific and one-way. A conspiracy fighter speaks to you. I believe in conscientiousness. But I know that a rigid legal arrangement for 50-50 would be unfair, because the judge sees the parties. The mediator before the judge. What mediator? Do you make a new proxy or the old proxy? It's a matter. Reading the law, we don't understand. Is the old, the normal mediator, or is he a special family intermediary?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u126	Special family ombudsman.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u127	It's a special dosing protector. We as PASOK, as a Change Movement, propose the functioning of family courts and that is a good proposal. We have done it cold, before the debate on conspiracy, and it is on our 2019 election schedule. In any case, mediation, the judge should see what the parties tell them and weigh. A rigid diligence would be unjust, to the detriment of the child, and such practice should be avoided. In this direction, for the need for common parental responsibility, the United Nations has also expressed itself - and I shall put forward the relevant - but not in rigid regulations prohibiting weighting. Weighting is an obligation of mediation and the judge. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the law must stipulate that both parents for the sake of the child - all studies and I testify to one, because I have never seen one of them in any other -...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Loverdo, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u129	I'm closing, Mr. President. Please give me a second. I'm the politician who's brought the matter to the House. I'm not asking for separate treatment at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u130	Okay, but we're in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u131	I'm just asking for a second more. I am therefore presenting a study by Richard Warsack, not because a scientist from a U.S. university said something, but because the literature, which contributes to the reader and the research he refers to, is endless. And I beg you very much to see it. I think it is an undisputed witness that those who stand ideologically and politically because they call it a number of organisations that are close to the party, and we must be well with the organisations, do not help the issue we are discussing today. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In short, our question is not a political one, in the sense of our daily confrontation and conflict. Our issue is deeply social, often tragically experiential, and no one has by definition been wrong and the other is wrong. But if you think that what I legally define is right, what supplies we give to the judge, to the Ombudsman before him, to weigh the goods, to weigh the people he has before him, and not to do so since 1983 and then to decide on a one-sided basis on the basis of ideas and self-evident things, and I shall end with that, Mr President. ........................................ I remember you, Mr President, when I had been confronted with Mr Contonis, always in a healthy, global and political context on the subject, you were here on a timely basis that you had, and you agreed that the law was fine today. I remember this conversation that you had, and I called you from behind that, yes, you are right, the law says it well, the matter is what judges decide. And as I felt, others have told me that they feel it when they first meet the subject, that is, they say, "good, my child, is it possible to have an alternating residence, is it possible?" That was my first reaction. Is it possible for such a nice article to need changes? And that was my first reaction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u132	All right, hang up, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u133	As soon as I'm trained, I realized that with such approaches you can have a conversation in Omonia with other similar people, but you can't change the law in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u134	The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Mylonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill which, after thirty-five, thirty-eight years of age, has been trying to bring reforms on a subject which concerns our own society, our children and grandchildren, these babies, who have no problem living with their parents together, but which have many problems when the relations between the two parents, the father and the mother eventually come to breakups. Almost all of us here - and I wish those who have no children yet to have - are parents. This bill, Minister - I told you, and when we were talking about the objection of unconstitutionalism, which Mera25 had at the beginning - brings more problems rather than solves - I will explain them to you in detail - at least as we understand it. I'm not negative, we're not negative. I know you tried. However, the result was not what parents and mothers and fathers expected because you tried - I think - to satisfy both sides and so the measure was lost somewhere. So the focus wasn't the kid, but the parents came in. The problem isn't the parents. The problem is how to raise the child. Before I begin, however, I would like to say that we have honoured today and by Sunday there will be festive events for the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism. One and a half years, ladies and gentlemen, the most brutal genocide of the Turks with the guidance of their German advisers. Between 1919 and the 1922 Asia Minor Destroy, the Greeks, who lost their lives, were more than three hundred thousand. The President of the Greek Solution, Minister, because you represent the government here today, called on the government to bring back memories, to consider its obligations, like all of us, to recover from this lethargy in which we have been for years, not to repeat the same mistakes and to do everything possible to get the Pontium Genocide through as it has been in the Armenians around the world. I think it's an obligation for all of us. Now we're going to something else, Minister, before I start, because I'm surprised and I think it's up to the Ministry and justice in general, not the Ministry of Justice, but justice. Extortion, Minister, is it an act that's being punished? I'll ask you. I'm asking you again. I'll ask you all the time, Minister. So the extortion that we see in an order of the Chief of Fire, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kolokouris, an officer who sees him is under fire, enters the fire, Minister, and makes an order saying this about the vaccination,'scheduling the vaccination of Coreper...' - can you hear me, Minister? '... and if they so wish, by 11 June 2021 they will have been vaccinated'. We're talking about Coreper, about Coreper's special body. Now watch what he's saying. "Unless, their replacement will be initiated by the other services, by other officials of the Fire Corps." I want to ask, isn't that blackmail? Is that possible? I am also addressing the Minister for Civil Protection, but also to him, I am not talking about Mr Chardalia. Evidently Mr. Chardale's order would be to the chief of fire that's watching us, since you can't do that thing, what he says in here. You know, I've been in the Army for many years, I've been a pilot. An order is an order when it's practicable. Is it possible for Coreper tomorrow morning, when she tells him that all Coreper, this special body, this choice, consisting of cruisers, frogs, all day in gyms, why do we want it for a certain purpose, if they say tomorrow that no one is vaccinated, will replace Coreper with firefighters who are firing fires at home or those who sit in the offices? Who's he laughing at? This paper is for throwing. That's not an order, it's a phony blackmail. And the chief of the fire must get it right now, even though he's my friend. I'm saying he's in battle with fire. This order must be the command of a chief politician who has nothing to do with what the EMAS means. If he thinks he's going to replace EMAS with simple firefighters, he's very laughable. And because the orders coming out, Mr. Ploir, must be executed and be strong, performers, that's a barber. I call on him if tomorrow morning when Coreper says 'we are not vaccinated', see how to replace everyone and who will do Coreper's work. That's it. They're raping common sense. That's where we're going crazy. He loves Greek people. Mr. Hetas said a few days ago to Mr. Chrysochide that you have the names of five hundred people, criminals, murderers, Greeks and foreigners. The foreigners, why don't you kick them out, repatriate them, go home tomorrow morning? Today a little while ago - you can read it on the largest Greek websites - Mr Chrysochoidis with a list, Minister, five hundred people. So should the Greek Solution say so? We knew it, Mr. Chrysochidis knew it, and so many years what he did? And it says "years we are tormented with this list of five hundred people". Take her, Mr. Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, and execute. Why now? Why do we have to mourn people all the time? So we don't put logic on it? But we're not academics or professors, and we don't care to be. Just people. We use simple logic. And well in the Greek Solution and in Kostas Hetas, who forced Chrysochoids with a list of five hundred people to go to Marios Ice today, because we knew her, we had her, you have her, and you have her, she has it all over the world. Rain the bills, Minister. It's rain. You say someone's after you. You say we've taken out a pack of wolves and runs. You bring bills behind each other. We don't even have time to really do it. And not only that, but while we tell you that a bill such as this today, the whole opposition is saying so, your MPs say so, Mrs Kefaliannis tells you earlier, Mrs Giannakou told you, obviously other people will be telling you, here we come and say "you are right". We're right. Where can we find it right? So you're bringing in a bill. The same has happened, Minister, with the bills on illegal immigration. We had told Mr Chrysochide since September 19 19 that he would fail the first. He failed the first, failed the second. You brought a third, you brought a fourth. We keep working. The same for business, the same for tax. Same for friendly codes. And now, Minister, bring in new ones to change the Criminal Code and tighten the sentence. The point is to tighten up life? After the life? In my view, as the party President, Kyriakos Velopoulos, as he was glad to say, is our own personal views, the last sentence of our sentences for us in heinous crimes is the death penalty. You can't, you're telling us. Very good. Although you turn around for a walk in the world, you'll see what the world will tell you. You're coming now and you're saying life-threatening. But there are life-threatening ties, Minister. Isn't that the last sentence? Life bonding. The point is, what will be announced by the court's headquarters? Or is the point how to prevent the next murder? And how will the next murder be prevented when the candidate who has thought of going to rob and murder knows that if he is arrested, he will never see the sun light again. He's going to jail until his life's over. Because I have heard both the New Democracy and by Syriza and by the Communist Party in their previous speeches "we, our legal system is not punishable, it is a penitentiary". Wrong. Our system is punishable for these criminals, Minister. Why, she says, why don't we leave him in life, Mrs. Giannakou, my Minister? Because, he says, he must have the hope that he will come out to be good in prison. Oh, no? The hope of the 20-year-old girl, if she was our daughter, who is she? Resurrected? I don't understand. I don't understand. Is a girl 20 years old being murdered with her little boy in her arms and we're going to have a dalle with the killer, the criminal, the villain, the son of a bitch? I don't understand. To be good, he says, and have hope that one day he will come out. What are you talking about? Are you serious? Is that how they do to Romania? Pasaris why does he want to come to Greece? Eighteen meters below the earth, there, a dish of food a day until he dies, because that sentence is worth it. That's what you say, life imprisonment. Where's life? Sixteen years, Minister? And now you're saying we don't take it to 20, you get it to eighteen because it doesn't get you out there with the councils you're building. Who are these advisors? Who are they? Try the candy to be their daughter in Caroline's place. Who are these advisors to finally teach them? Let's see how nice it'll be, how much it'll hurt. I don't understand. We have brought all the world here through all the tribes of Israel, all the killers, we have gathered them and we mock them. And then we see them outside. A couple of times, he says, the police picked him up the other one. Why would he pick him up a hundred times? Should we be in business? Do you know anything else that impressed me? He left them free five to six of these strange guys that the poor sixty-year-old went to make observation to them because six o'clock in the morning they were jumping like the Indians there in the square of Nea Smyrna and they were turning around the knife. They stabbed him and turned his knife. And he left them free. Why? Because the 60-year-old didn't die, Minister. That's justice! Shame on us! This is a great shame for Greece. We sit here, we go out and we're guarded by a police officer or two. We're leaving the citizens. The villains enter into Grandpa's house, beat him to death, the grandfather is ninety years old, and we let them go. Georgian's gone. Why not leave and turn around from the Balkan states and come back to us on the other side?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Mylonakis, you will also use your dentistry obviously. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u137	Yeah, I'll finish. I'm gonna need two, three minutes - I won't consume any more - because you know how to touch this feeling and it's impossible for me to think that the Greek Parliament may not put things in some order at some point. We're in disparity, Minister. And he is responsible for the Ministry of Civil Protection and, above all, the Ministry of Justice. The sentences are there. They must be executed literally. Life? All years in prison until he dies, for bad crimes, I repeat. To finish, however, my colleague, Mr Hetas, and indeed very well, the draft legislation proposed, Mr Minister, should have contained provisions whose implementation would have focused on the child itself. We did. I think that is what all Members have said. These proposals do not focus on the child, unfortunately. Instead, you are trying to take advantage of the problems relating to custody - we have said, other diligence, other parental care, to make this clear - the diet and communication of divorced parents, by legislating only by voting. I'm sorry to say that because you're a man you don't do that. But it seems that some of the bills of this kind have been imposed by others. I hear that in Spain the same bill was passed. You bruise the waters with parental care, as I told you. I told you where the unconstitutionality of the issue of this bill is. It is in Article 5(3), which speaks of maternity, of paternity, on the basis of Article 21 of the Constitution. We talked about it when we discussed the objection of unconstitutionalism. There he is. There is neither a parent 1 nor a parent 2 nor a parent 3 nor a parent 5. These things can't be done. She knows the kid from little Dad and Mom. Now, if the kid breaks up and leaves Mom and goes to live a weekend in Dad and next to Dad, Babis, Hassan or anyone else sleeps, will the child ask his mom when she gets back: "Who's mom from the two? My dad what is it?" These are the problems of the child. These are psychological problems. So we don't make values. That's how we ruin the family. Family is the father, mother and children. It's over and over! We have to admit it and accept it. Let go of the fake modernisms and false progressions of Europe. We do not care what Sweden or Denmark does. To finish, what I also want you to see is this: the children of divorced parents, Mr. Minister, are not modern "Perseptons", during the myth of six months in Hades and six months in the earth with Demetra. It's not. Children want substantial, equal support and communication from both divorced parents. Diligence is the one that plays the part. Parental care is what cannot be changed either by a judicial decision. It's over and out. Whatever else we say is just to talk about it. Also, with digital joint statements you will see that there will be huge problems. They've set up topics for two years. Watch out. In other words, we have a set-up with one or other of them, they agree on something, and two years later, one of them says 'No, I do not accept it. I deny it.' There's no court order. So what's going on? Let's start over. Let's go to the courts. So this work will be done, because in most couples there are disagreements and, indeed, big disagreements. We will not vote on the bill, Minister, because we believe it is not complete, it is not a bill that helps the child. It helps your party vote, so you can get them well with both women and men, and with mom and dad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u138	Good. The next speaker is Mrs Olga Kefalayannis from New Democracy. The following will be followed by Ms Fotio and then by Mr Ragus, a Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA. You have the floor, Mrs. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, after a long-term public debate, with proposals, conflicts and contradictions, the Ministry of Justice tabled today's draft law on the reform of family law. Its purpose, as described in Article 1, is to serve the best interests of the child. The crucial question, then, is: Is the purpose served? Is the child's interest strengthened? Is he protected by the new bill? Unfortunately, the answer is easy. Oh, no. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, the bill emphasises the importance of continuing, joint parental care after parental separation. We all agree on this in principle, as long as the guide remains emphatically the interest of the child and not the interest of the parents. Because this bill has been written as being directed to a parent, the one with whom the child does not live, even when it does not regulate matters relating to him directly. And the question again is: is the child-centered nature of family law altered? Yeah, he's devastated. In particular, the obligation to provide the other parent with prior information on simple, daily or urgent issues is introduced when the Civil Code gives parents the right to attempt on their own in these matters. In other words, the new provision, without abolishing that right, deactivates it, subject to the approval of the other parent. In addition to the legal failure, this provision is practically impossible. It will increase parental indebtedness. In the case of their disagreement, the daily life of the child itself will be at a dead end. Even more serious problems arise the provision, which provides that parents continue to take parental care together and equally. We have heard the Minister himself say that the introduction of the term 'equivalent' is indicative of the desire for common parental care after the separation. In any case, a legal text is not a wish. Moreover, this desire is fully covered by the word'remaining in the common of parental responsibility'. In addition, according to the general provision of Article 1510 of the Civil Code, parents do not exercise parental care either during the marriage. After all, the issues of parental equality have been resolved by the 1983 law, where the constitutional principle of gender equality has been fully reflected in family law. The worst thing, however, is that here the term "equal" opens the way of horizontal treatment for all children. A child, that is, will be treated equally with a 15 - year - old child. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child expressly states that the interests of the child are not intact and specialises in any particular case. It was not taken into consideration apparently. The legislator himself provides for and protects the interests of the child by introducing it as a vague legal concept and as such can only be specialized by the natural judge. The legislator cannot replace the judge. The term'removes', now, in the provision providing for the time of communication, wrongly confers the right to communicate with a parent who does not reside with the child in the nature of the obligation. Communication is a right protected by law. It can't be forced to do anything. Again, the Minister explained that these conditions are indicative and that the judge is obviously free to decide what is best for the child and on this matter. This is how one wonders: is it a reform of a bill, which is set up on indicative terms and regulations? The answer is unequivocal. No, it's not reform. Evidently those terms, 'equivalent' and'removed', are laid down in order to bind the Court's reasoning and judgment. In fact, they lead to an interpretation of a regular exercise of parental care with compulsory alternating residence. It is therefore necessary to clarify whether or not the two conditions should be removed. To provide for the definitive conviction of abuse offences as a case of misuse of parental care in practice, this means that the child will remain exposed to parental care for years. The Istanbul Convention provides that clear evidence of violence is even the certificates of hospitals, which find abuse. In France, in 2020, a law was passed in which communication and accommodation with the child can be suspended only by means of criminal prosecution for similar offences. We cannot therefore rely on the practices of other European countries to do so. The institution of the family courts also operates in Europe. The Minister himself said that there is no possibility in Greece, although, as we know, there has been a plan for years. It is therefore not a reform of the adoption of fragmentary tactics from abroad. It does not mean reforming family law on the basis of genocentric criteria. It is not the family law field of combatting the sexes and pursuits of parents. We're talking about the kids. We must not forget that. Ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy is a force liberal, force of progress and reforms. He knows how to respect values and he knows how to listen, compose, unite. That is why it can achieve majorities, govern for the good of the country, enjoy the people's trust, just as it is with this government. With these principles we have learned to be dominated, so we honour the role assigned to us by the citizens in their vote: defending fundamental values. That is why we want to be judged: for our policy, our positions, our overall attitude. Personally in the past, I have supported consciously serious social reforms, such as the Coexistence Pact for homosexual couples, which were really aimed at defending individual rights, but not at personal experiences, Minister, but at the spirit our history teaches that we should never speak personally only politically and naturally from the principles that our faith imposes on a modern, liberal, democratic society and our conviction that we are here to move forward together by composing as important a matter as this of the bill. That is why the amendments, which we tabled together with my colleague, the former Minister of State, Mrs Giannakou, seek to correct a mistaken logic which was wrongly reflected in this bill. Now final responsibility belongs to you. Because the bill instead of uniting it splits. Instead of solving, it creates problems, instead of composing, it is persistently standing in positions that do not serve its purpose in the interests of children. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Kefaliannis. We will give the floor to Mrs. Theano Fotio by SYRIZA after preparing the Step. As I said before, Parliamentary spokesman Mr Ragus, Mr Ypsilantis and Mr Syntrakis will follow. Here, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, I could now resign from a speaker following Mrs Giannakou's speech, with whom I agree, but also after what Mrs Kefaliannis has analysed. I would remind you that it was an honour to vote for the law on the assumption and adoption in that article concerning the assumption of homosexual couples. I don't forget. However, I will not do so, Mrs Giannakou, because I do not want to strengthen a short-sighted communication staff, which she considers to be such acts of respect for political opponents on opposition grounds. The Legislation on Conscience concerns children whose parents did not separate conscientiously. You're telling us that 86% of them are unconsciously separated. 14% is not a significant percentage? It's small, but it's important because every child can carry wounds all his life in his psychosocial formation, in the engraving of indelible wounds throughout his life through a two-cylind of claims, rejections, concurrent crises and daily dramas. Do we improve the 1983 law? Oh, no. He enshrined the interests of the children. You parents. Apart from that, you are giving the wrong messages to society, to couples that have not divorced. Wrong messages in society, i.e. messages from the past, Solomon solutions. So, shall we separate the child in the middle of Article 7, the so-called 'equivalent', with the article concerning one-third of the parents in relation to the rights of the two-thirds of the parents? I wonder where all these dangerous non-scientific and unprecedented provisions exist in no European country. Mr President, I believe that in reality these perceptions arise because you think that the child is a witness to his parents and not an autonomous young person, a young citizen, that is, who is entitled to enjoy human rights, who correspond to his age as determined by the UN International Convention on the Rights of Children, etc. That your Government has this perception is evidenced by the fact that they have not been involved in the drafting of this bill by the two responsible Undersecretaries. Excuse me, you've done two State Secretarys. One is to protect the child. It's Mrs. Michalidou. The other is about protecting the family and about the demographic problem. Where are they? Excuse me very much, does the multitude finally legislate in a safe house between the portfolios? Do you wear all the clothes? The Ministry of Justice, the Minister for the Protection of the Child, the Protection of the Family, etc.Huh? Is the state finally in order to solve problems or is it away? For communications, I imagine reasons when they need deep areas and issues that may divide society that have political costs, then they are absent. The second factor that determines this bill stems from your perception that conscientiousness means, in particular, safeguarding the interests of parents and not the best interests of the child. Of course Article 1 states falsely that the purpose of the bill is the best interest of the child. I say "funshots" why does it specialize? What article specializes in these children's rights and best interests? It is not, of course, guaranteed - and you know it - by horizontal mandatory legal provisions. It is, on the contrary, guaranteed by a wide network of structures, policies, services and actions to protect children and support their families at all stages of their life from pregnancy to adulthood, from studying, if they are, or at the end of their studies. These benefits and services have a single objective: to create a sense of security for parents that whatever happens in their lives, to separate or not, they have the potential to raise their children. That is why in SYRIZA in the welfare portfolio where child protection - I was responsible - we have made sure that we create a grid of as many essential structures and services as possible for the child. I will say something that these days have not been heard here, because we have not shown them. Poor thing. Nor have we received the expenditure for the child from 800 million in four very difficult years. The main thing is that we built the KESYPs, family support centres, 100 of them in a hundred major municipalities in the country as a monitoring of community centres. We joined the ESDP. It's so many millions in particular, it's all broken up since '18. I'll tell you in the minutes, Minister, whether you're going any further than that. You froze it! The fund and its resources could be very important aid - money - for such actions as those for which I am talking about for the child to safeguard the problems of the child and help it. Why is family law for me not legal? I believe it is one of the components of the child protection grid and as such must be treated by the state. That is why the law on child care after parental separation, in order indeed to serve the best interests of the child, needs to provide for the examination of all cases distinctly - everyone said so, I repeat - and not the application of a 'korse' to everyone. Such a generalised solution not only respects the rights of each child, but is in breach of it de facto. So we need family courts. Everyone said so. Until then, I would ask you to assist with appointments of judges and judges, with qualified staff of scientists, pediatricians, social workers, teachers. We propose to you. Remove the bill today, bring the bill for family courts, do all these reforms now that you can and you have money from the Recovery Fund, and we will be the whole Opposition with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u142	We will give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Giannis Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. I can only begin with something that I did not know about. I imagine many colleagues have heard this today. In fact - I shall say this directly, Mr Tsiara - it is one of what no one can believe in his ears, that in an interview you gave, you have succeeded against fellow Members of the New Democracy, saying that Mrs Giannakou and Mrs Kefaloyannis, who were responsible for your bill. I have followed the speeches and Mrs Giannakou and Mrs Kefalonianne, as well as most of the colleagues and colleagues, and have not seen anyone supporting their views on personal experiences, I have not even seen any hint of them. I imagine that, not only for Mrs Kefaliannis and Mrs Giannakou, but for all of us, the least you should do from this point of view is to apologize, Mr Chiara, if you have elementary political ethics and even if you are still in line with logic and responsibility. Well, two women New Democracy MPs from personal experiences tell you "no". The men, the dads of all the antipopulation parties - I don't know if it is from New Democracy - who say "no" how it is explained on the basis of your own great thinking?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u144	Did you hear Mr. Voutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u145	And I heard Mrs Giannakou, and I heard Mrs Kefaliannis. And listen to you, Mr. Chiara, what I'm telling you again. The least you have to do is ask for "sorry". Because in the end, you want me to tell you differently, Mrs Giannakou and Mrs Kefaloniann - I think Mrs Anagnostopoulou is right before what they do honour politics, honor Parliament, honor their party. They're helping their party. They're not hurting him. In New Democracy, they're not hurting. But when, Mr Chiara, a minister does not stop, he does not stop himself and, last time, he comes to this House and changes the way in which the head of the fight against the black money in Greece is placed, which until your own legislative shameful initiative the head was designated by decision of the judiciary, the Supreme Judicial Council, and you came here to establish your own capacity, your own government, to designate the head, I think the conclusions are now coming from every side. And politically I also mean these very special cultural value, Mr Chiara, issues of experience. What's the big problem with this bill? Because on all its sides there is no doubt that it has been completely degraded by our MPs, by our rapporteur, by the sectoral authority, as much as by all the parties in the opposition. But if we had to choose one, the most important side, the most important problem that exists and is born with this bill, what was it supposed to be? I shall begin by asking the following rhetorical question. If we could rhetorically submit to the Greek society, like any other civilised, developed and modern society, the question of what is this, which is the greatest desire for society to happen when a marriage breaks down, a state of existence, which obviously has a past, is present and will have a future - and as long as the years are over, divorces are likely to grow more and more - what will such a society say, what will they say? She will say that what she cares primarily is from this dissolution of marriage that the child is not harmed. And it will also recognize that the most crucial condition for this to happen is, if it can, the marriage solution to be done consensually, that this is the most crucial one. That if a marriage is solved and a divorce develops consensually, this is crucial in achieving the major goal, which is not to harm their children and their souls, their health, their psychosomatic health from the dissolution of this marriage. If we agree - and I imagine that we agree - on these findings, then we can go to the next one, which is the fact that what has been achieved in Greek society is really important. We say and say again many times - many colleagues and colleagues have said so - that 86% of divorces are consensual. I'll say it in different words. This is a very important acquis for Greek society, for our culture, for all of us, for our families, for our fathers, for our mothers and for our children, for all Greeks and Greeks. It is very important that nine out of ten marriages be settled consensually. Is that what fell out of the sky? Is it something that existed as a gene in Greek and Greek? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.. It's a conquest of society, it's a conquest over these years, it's a conquest through these decades. Why and how? Why is this great 86% due? It's due to two pillars. It is due to family law, as was introduced by the great reform that has now been recognised by all the parties in 1983 under Law 1329 of the Government of Andreas Papandreou, and secondly, it is due to a second pillar in court rulings. There is no doubt that societies have both their good and their bad self and that the great burden of responsibility that both legislative and executive power and judicial authority are with their actions and decisions to bring the good of society to the surface and to marginalize its evil. This has been achieved in these decades. That is why this 86% poaching, which is important, I repeat, is of invaluable value and absolutely decisive for children. So, what do we know? We know that the legislation that exists and the way Greeks and Greek judges worked all the previous years have taken off this good self of Greek society. Does anyone have a problem with that 86%? I'm sure nobody, neither do you. We cannot imagine that anyone has a problem or disagrees with that 86%. What's the problem? It is - we have all recognized it - at 14%, where there is no consensus on a marriage, where because there is no consensus on a marriage we have clashes, we have many times even family tragedies that damage children. More specifically, the problem lies - and indeed lies - in some of the judgments of the non-consensual courts which go out of acquired courts, others say, speed from court practice, that others say in a firm sense, possibly - and in specific cases that is not possible, but it is a fact - unfair to one parent, usually father. But this logic of this process, these examples, these are the negative effects of a process which we said had a decisive role to play in achieving the major, which is 86% to have consensus divorces in Greece. Does anyone doubt that it's a problem to be a father, go to court, be entitled to have a piece of custody and the court won't give it to you? No, it's a problem, and we need to see how we solve it. Where is the big disagreement and the big reactions with your draft law now? Not if there's the problem, then, but the solution you're going to give. And why is it extremely negative and unacceptable that you go to give? Because while the problem creates a number of court rulings which unfair fathers, sometimes even mothers, you do not remain in this part, but you go and intervene in the legislative part which is the 1983 law. So you're doing the essential, maximum offense. While the problem lies in the courtroom, part of 14% of non-consensual courts, you go and intervene in the legislation thanks to which we have 90% consensus divorces in Greece. And we have consensus divorces in Greece thanks to this legislation because every law carries its message. Apart from what he writes, he has what the voters say, his engineering. The 1983 Act did not say any of that. But what did he do? He sent a message, as was actually applied by the majority of the courts: "Don't have your mind to go to court, Father, proposed finding a consensus solution with the mother." This message played a decisive role for Greek society to achieve this great cultural asset, 90%, nine out of ten divorces to have them consensually in Greece. And that's exactly what you go and you get hurt with this bill. By the time they told you and told you that you could intervene in the court. And not only do you not intervene in the judiciary, Mr Chiara, but here you have dared - and I mean you dared - with a courageousness that does not belong to someone who has a legislative initiative as the Minister of Justice to claim in your first speech to the committee: it is not possible - a family court. He said the Justice Minister, who, under the Constitution, has all authority and all the opportunity to establish a family court. No one's blocking him. Only logistics could have been those, which obviously cannot be the reasons why we do not establish family courts in Greece, but obviously are those problems that we need to overcome to establish family courts in Greece. And the Minister of Justice comes to the country and says we can't establish a family court. To say that a judge, a judge alone, does not have the power to establish a family court. Let a lawyer say so, can't lawyers alone set up a family court, but can the Minister for Justice who has the legislative initiative dares to come to Parliament and say, "Can we not establish a family court?" You do not want to establish because if you wish, if there was political will, you would of course have founded. Here, Mr Chiara, before you and much after you we will achieve goals far more ambitious, far more distant than the establishment of family courts. There have been reforms and overturns here because of the political will and the strong political leaderships, ministries or governments, because all I say about you are also about Mr Mitsotakis who far exceed the size of the establishment of the family courts. So you said we can't make any courts. And what are you doing? You have intervened in the 1983 legislation. What was the fifthness of the 1983 legislation, as everyone has said? Paediatric character. How did that character come up in Law 1329/83 if I'm not mistaken? How did it come about? Just through the logic of the personalization he put in. He did not lay horizontal provisions, he did not say '1/3', he did not put such molds and let any court specialize in every child and his personality - that means childcare - the decision he would make. The central nature of our civil Code and of family law is disqualified, precisely because you are effectively ceasing the individualisation of cases and going with a horizontal logic, as you have been reported, to be generalised. That's what hurts children's interests. Because child-centered perception doesn't mean putting the kids forward. No, it means accepting that every child is a special personality, a separate personality, a great personality, and whatever decision we make must be adapted to its own data and not to generalise, as you do. And how do you generalize? By adopting two words - poison, 'equivalent' and '1/3'. And what is the result of this generalization that you do with these two words - poison? It is the exact same result when in a great, remarkable barrel of old red wine we drop two drops of poison. In a barrel of great red wine of many years, if he accepts two drops of poison is destroyed, it's for dropping. That's exactly what you do in family law, that's exactly what you do in Greek society with the bill you bring and which includes these two words - poison: "equal" and "1/3". Why is that red wine barrel that you're destroying with these two words poison? It's just this 86% of consensual divorces, it's this "nine out of ten get a consensual divorce". So, by recapitulating - what are you doing? We have and we are treading on a great route of Greek society, which has succeeded in this worthwhile 86% for divorces, issued in Greece, we have a problem found - we all agree - with the injustice that exist, in particular some fathers who have not given them part of diligence, who should have given them, and instead of intervening in the court, in the judiciary, in the judiciary, in the leg of justice, with a lot of ways that you can, you intervene and alter, you expose the basic pillar on the basis of which the Greek society has achieved this important 86%. Why? Why are you changing the character of the 1983 Legislative Legislation? This is in its essence and at its core the big problem with your legislation. That is, Mr Chiara, the great damage you do in family law and in Greek society with what you are asking the Members to vote on today. And I will close, Mr President, by saying one last thing about the bill. Why are you doing all this? It's a reasonable question. Haven't you heard them from the first day of your committees? So many Members have told you, and your own Members have told you. You know all this. Do you know why you're doing all this, Mr. Chiara? Why are you carrying out contracts of commitments that Mr. Mitsotakis personally has undertaken against these small oligarchies, the strong oligarchies, which you know very well what they are, have been denounced with all that Mrs. Giannakou said in the past days about the money invested in this case of this bill, which has been done for a certain field of economic investment in order to achieve what you have brought here. And in any case, if that is not the case, Mr Ploiros, Mr Ploiros, the least the Prime Minister had to do since the 'green' light was given. I don't know if it's true what was said here this morning that there are reports that have been made public and that you held meetings and what role each of you played, etc. The least he had to do toward Greek society, Mr. Tsiras, Mr. Mitsotakis and to the contrary tell you, I want to be very honest to you at the beginning, I now want to say this and to you Mr. Mitsotakis has an obligation to come here to defend, explain and justify this legislation. Mr. Mitsotakis cannot be hidden, Mr. Chiara. He can't have found Mr. Chiara, the doctor to do all the dirty work and do that he doesn't understand as if he were the Prime Minister of the country. What you're doing today has a huge impact on thousands of families of mothers, fathers, tens of thousands of children. Mr. Mitsotakis cannot be left from this debate. To have the courage to honour the responsibility given to him by the Greek people and to come here to place for this bill, the least we have to do and to disagree at the end of the day. And one last thing, Mr President, because I cannot omit it, Mrs Gerovali has said so too. I too, as a parliamentary representative, once again say on behalf of the SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance that we in no way can tolerate this situation with democracy in quarantine, with the parliamentary operation being mutilated. Well, we can no longer tolerate Parliament being amputated and Members cannot fulfil their obligations and duties. And here you have no doubt that we are not going to stop not just reports and complaints. There is no way this thing can be tolerated anymore, it has exceeded every tolerance limit. And we did not talk to the pandemic or the months in the difficult pandemic, but this cannot continue in Parliament, because you have a problem with your own Members and you want to hide their objections and their refusals. And because now there are examples of Mrs Giannakou or Mrs Kefalonianis, you think that they do not know the universe that there are other Members who, in other bills in this process, do not let them manifest themselves, say their opinion, have democracy to function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u146	Mr Vassiliou - Nikolaos Ypsilantis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not really understand what the Prime Minister of Greece, Mr Mitsotakis, would benefit from, to respond to the irresponsibleness and political abhorism, which would lead to the negation of everything when a bill came into the Greek Parliament about forty years after the great change took place, of Law No.1329/83, to family law under the Constitution of 1975, which introduced this paradigm and referred to the necessary changes at that time, which had to be made to Greek society and family law, which most of us here deprived of, because we must simply say the legislator and his obligations and not what an entire component of '75 brought into Greek society with a modern constitution for that time and with a Constitution that gave the prospect of Greek society and Greek democracy. Today, then, another daring intervention is being introduced by this same party, which is coming to reform and regulate issues of family law, which have been going on for many years with uncertainties and distortions. It comes on many issues to be brought into line with international conventions on the rights of the child and the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence. The draft law on the reform of family law in relation to relationships between parents and children marks the transition of the main responsibility for decisions concerning the minor child to its parents in any case where they cease their cohabitation. The regulation of all issues relating to the child is, first of all, the responsibility of the parents, who continue to be equally responsible for the upbringing, education, care, supervision and nutrition of their child. The purpose of the law, as set out in Article 1, is to refer to the active presence of both parents when raising the child and to the fulfilment of their responsibility towards him. The word responsibility is the key to this piece of legislation. When parents separate themselves, they must take responsibility for resolving their disputes regarding their child issues, drawing up a rearing plan, a parenting plan on the basis of which they will go and which they themselves will modify whenever necessary. Therefore, taking responsibility for their children is the first important step towards reform, which is attempting by the draft law, and I believe that this is what we will achieve. This is reflected in the priority given to the self-energy of parents to regulate the agreement and the issues of their children. Any parental agreement also requires their cooperation. This is the message that the Greek legislator must send today through the House, parents to work together for the good of their children despite the malfunctions of their interpersonal relationship. If there is no possibility of another great institution, which also encourages and promotes mediation, it will give through Article 8 of this bill the promotion of the understanding of the two people who have brought to the world and who have the responsibility of their children. I will tell you something personal, which is my guide not to the thirty, thirty-five years of my law that I saw, I was faced with, I was crushed for one or the other, but a touching family scene, and I will confide in this house when my great son, Anastassia, five years old, in a family little fight - five years old was the child - came and took the hand of the father and mother and united them. These are the instincts of the Greek society, which no law can change, no verbal intervention by anyone here, and these are the messages we need to emit. I would like to thank you, along with my thanks, to point out that the legislator, the Minister, has taken two interventions. The first concerned mediation, which was finalized in Article 8. Article 8 gives precedence to mediation when there is a subject. And I must say here and also to the Greek lawyers, who so far about 85% of divorces have led it through mediation to such solutions, who have not been forced to bring it to court by means of mediation. It is something that we must give to the Greek Ombudsman. I would also like to say that another intervention made by this bill is the active presence of both parents in the life and upbringing of their children, which is the second important objective of this draft law, in order to ensure that parental care is taken together and after separation. So it changes the starting point of any arrangement then made by parents. On the basis of that rule, parents are required to cooperate in order to achieve this joint exercise of custody by means of arrangements such as those which themselves directly agree or with that agreement. There are in this direction the insurance systems referred to in Article 5(2), which refers to the effective participation of both parents in decisions on the name, religion, health, child education, the change in the place of residence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. I would also like to say one more point, which I had made for Article 14(2)(d), where the obligation to communicate with the child is reinforced by this provision, which stipulates that failure to exercise the right to communicate to the beneficiary is a misuse of parental care. I stressed in the Committee's discussions that the bill refers to the right of communication, so it must also be pointed out that communication is also an obligation. Where appropriate by adding, in paragraph 2 of Article 14, ‘the wrong exercise and the responsible omission of the right of communication by the beneficiary of a parent’ to the words ‘operational right’, this aspect should also be inserted. I would like to close by saying this. Minister, whether we have objections or not, several important points have been accepted. Forty years' practice shows that we want the solution, and that is what the New Democracy is coming to do today, and that will be voted on by a large majority in this House, whether we want it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr. Highlands. As the names had been given, Mr. Synthrakis and then the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy would be followed. But because Mr. Ploris is taking part in the pre-review committee and has to go up...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u149	Could you make out the next names for us to know?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u150	I say, on the basis of what was agreed with the Parliamentary Representatives, next, that Mr Synthrakis, from the list of speakers, would follow two parliamentary representatives, namely Mr Ploris and Mr Grigoriadis, and Mrs Apatzidis, the second cycle of speakers would be completed. Around six o'clock, the Secretary-General of the Communist Party will speak. We are trying to adapt the time and pressures of Parliament's representatives so that Mr Ploris is at six o'clock in the pre-review committee. To give the floor to Mr. Synthraki now and then to Mr. Ploris. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. With this draft law on parental care, the New Democracy Government is trying to give the impression to the Greek society that this is a brave reform aimed at serving the best interests of the child. Indeed, the Minister, Mr Tsiaras in an interview, said that the draft law is very close to the legislation of other European countries. But let's see what's really going on. In Europe, as at international level, there is a variety of forms for the distribution of parental care and custody. There are even differences in the content of these concepts. So what is this approach to other countries? In many countries common parental care or care for parents is laid down, in particular by mutual agreement, with this trend to be extended. Yes, but neither the principle of equal time for both parents, as is the case in this draft law, nor the principle of alternating residence after the dimension, which was ultimately not included in the draft law as submitted. Also, even in those countries where the joint exercise of parental or diligent care, whether compulsory or not, is very small, the percentage of divorced couples who choose this type of custody exercise. Studies suggest that the proportion of children who have been divorced jointly is about 30% in regions of the United States, 25% in Norway and less than 20% in the United Kingdom. In many capitalist states the parental joint care is provided for by mutual agreement between parents themselves. Regardless of whether they have introduced conscientiousness or not, the reason why more active role is now required by the father is not only the necessary support, communication that must have with the child, but also the fact that a greater percentage of mothers in relation to the past work, with what this implies for their absence from home and child rearing. That is why the trend in the majority of the Member States of the European Union and in the United States is to extend the network of services to care for children, the elderly, but not under the responsibility of the State, with structures, social benefits and by saying, but largely traded and privatised. This also includes family advice and mediation, extremely expensive and time-consuming. That is why we have also tabled the amendment on the discharge of these provisions. In Germany, in the event of divorce, the parents maintain common parental responsibility in the event that none of them have applied for sole custody in the competent court. The German Civil Code does not exclude joint custody, and it is expressly permitted for the courts to decide on compulsory conscientiousness without the prior consent of both parents. There is compulsory joint custody in France, Belgium, Sweden, Denmark and in certain states of the United States of America. Even in these cases of compulsory conscientiousness, it does not have the same content everywhere, and there may be - and there may be - modifications to the law and to the case law itself. In Sweden, for example, the principle of common legal and not physical custody of children is applied. In other words, the two parents co-decide on a number of critical issues relating to the development of the child, they distribute what is involved in his custody. California, which was the first state to establish compulsory conscientiousness, equal to the year to both parents and alternating residence in 1969, amended the law in a direction only if both parents have jointly requested it and the interests of the child are maintained. France, Belgium, Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland, Germany, Austria, Catalonia, Australia, Mexico, Brazil and in seventeen States of the United States of America, the alternating residence is also applicable. Finally, international experience itself teaches us that changes in legislation on child care do not automatically result in changes in everyday life and relationships between parents and children. It is confirmed that such complex issues are not simply dealt with by laws and judicial decisions. That is why the percentage of divorced couples, who choose this type of custody, is very small even in the countries that are compulsory. For example in France, although there is compulsory diligence in law and changing residence, in 73% of divorce cases, mother exercises her own custody. French fathers participate three times less than mothers in childcare. The above suggests that conspiracy either the equal presence or the alternating residence is not applied and cannot be applied in a horizontal and mechanistic manner everywhere. Life and work conditions, level and way of life, development in the end of the very social consciousness. It is so meaningless and short-sighted that your perception of the issues of parental care that you understand the child's interest solely or almost exclusively as a matter of essential importance - so you say - participation and presence of both parents in raising and taking care of him, but this is also actually being cancelled. Neither mindful of approaching the issue of parental responsibility to the child, parental relationship, so parental care as a complex social issue in direct connection with the institution of the family as a historical social phenomenon that depends on the level and development of social consciousness. The issue of parental responsibility and the regulation of parental relations with children, I would say before and after divorce, can find their solution and always for the benefit of children when the economic, social and economic coercion that is a key component of such a society, which is exploiting itself, is extinct. While the question of the joint exercise of parental responsibility in the draft law is in the right direction, however, any adjustments in practice are merely a formal equality. That is why we are voting 'at present' in principle. In capitalism social inequality and social needs, they are contrasting concepts. Equivalent relationships between parents can only be truly equal when basic rights are guaranteed, such as stable work, stable hours, decent income, government support and family care, protection of children, with public free health, welfare, education, sport, culture and saying. But what are you doing? You're doing the whole opposite. So you're generalizing insecurity for both the woman and the man. Remove eight hours, impose ten days' work and unpaid overtime, circumventing the daily and weekly working time, flexible forms of employment, low wages, intensification of work. Overall, industrial relations are based on the European Union's strategy, which is the minefield, in the final analysis, on motherhood itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u152	Please complete, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u153	Thousands of millions of obstacles arise for the acquisition of a child, not upbringing either in marriage or after divorce - and I conclude, Mr President, for half a minute yet - which are increasing even further for the majority of young women on the basis of difficulties in combining their participation in work with motherhood. This is why the provisions of the draft law constitute an empty letter, because objectively they are called upon to operate in specific provided socio-economic conditions of this modern slavery, which maintains and reproduces social inequalities, inequality between men and women in a system that daily tramples all concepts of collectiveness and solidarity, respect and mutual understanding. This complex social issue, therefore, is not dealt with either by existing family law or by the amendments made to this draft law. The whole controversy between the other parties and between Members who may belong to the same party, the same parliamentary group, is limited and exhausted between those who support compulsory conscientiousness or alternating residence and the supporters of existing family law. So this is why the JRC is not trapped in the false dilemma, which both the New Democracy and SYRIZA and the other urban parties play "paying parental care, including custody by both parents or not?" why is the issue determined by the dominant economic and social relations. As a JRC - and I close with this, Mr President - we say that the need for changes that improve the Civil Code has indeed matured, regulating issues of child care and care after marriage or children's non-marriage or cohabitation, taking into account the comments of scientific bodies, but with the only starting-point of the child's interests and needs at every stage of age, a criterion which must be applied either to cohabiting the two parents or not. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u154	We will now give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Ploir, followed by Mr Koutsoubas, the Secretary-General of the Communist Party, and then by the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis. Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, on these issues - and this is the concern - whoever was in the Chamber from the beginning and who watched the positions - it sees that the positions are largely horizontal within this Chamber - and I refer to those who are trying to find differentiations - I have seen similar considerations developed in many parliamentary groups either support for the bill or criticism of the bill. This is precisely a social issue which we have dealt with in practice, and we cannot have such a social issue that we want to see micro-groups. And I am referring specifically to the position that has again gone to say about interests behind a bill, which is currently looking at us with anguish in the courts and is in a constant controversy where the child is finally the child. And because it was said about the divorce rate, consensual or not, experience is very simple. Any divorce the parents discuss with each other is solved and solved in favor of the child. And when these parents never reach the courts, because unfortunately, we do not bruise ourselves, 86% of the consensus divorces does not mean that for other reasons the case is not enough in the courts, there may have been a consensus on divorce and, respectively, there may be diligence, communication and nutrition issues. Because the consensus divorce actually wants an agreement that only regulates diligence and on the way can other issues arise, and at least the piece of communication and nutrition unfortunately arrives in the courts. But apparently when parents discuss for the benefit of the child, solutions are found. And those who have a sensitivity to these issues - and I am referring to colleagues in the profession - are those who really come to say 'for the good of the child, find, even one to do more, but the child does not go through this whole process' because at least the experience of my own shows that at some point this great intensity is going through. But the problems remain in the child and the child is at an age of adolescence and may, on the one hand, have a problem of communication with his father, on the other hand, he may have an exploitation of the position of father. What's going on now? No matter what we write about the law, no matter what you put in for equal treatment, and that 99.9% custody has a wife, no matter what the man has. Can I tell you something with absolute honesty? I would judge this decision, because that is how society has grown. Because right now in us, no matter what we say to the laws, we know that in the model of the Greek family as we live the child must be with the mother. This has reached one point, but it has been industrialized. And what about these relationships, which regulates both sides of the bill, ladies and gentlemen? Where there is agreement, where there is no industrially confronted phenomenon: Suddenly the father, while the child had needs, who knew about them, finds that the child no longer has needs and money, which he will give for the child no longer for the child, and we see that there is a pressure on the mother in that part or that no food is paid - we always say in the relationships where there is tension, the normal ones are solved - whether suddenly the child does not have to go to school or while he does not have to go to private school on the other hand at the time when the father contacts all the activities that are available at that time. On the one hand, unfortunately with a loot - and at the same time, parents do not understand - the child, the place that is diligent, the woman, is pressing on the part of communication and the place, which has the power to contribute financially, pushes the economic part. Could we leave this situation? Because the proposal I have heard here, ladies and gentlemen, is 'Let case law be shaped'. But the case law has been formulated, that's it. We'll go to court, and the only reason to lose custody will mother have really done something scary. He's never gonna be a better father. We will always see if he has done something scary and communication will come out manufactured, weekend rather than weekends, Wednesday specific hours. And yes, there will also be judges who in special cases will make a fight more. When there is a complaint, precisely because there will be this complaint, there will be a great deal of weight and anxiety for the judge not to happen anything and it will make a decision by provisional order. And "temporary order" means that we will be in the office of a judge, we will sit some time, a decision will be taken the next or the next day, which will become "pilot" for the insurance measures and judge a court, ladies and gentlemen, after two, two and a half years, when the child's lifestyle has been shaped. I'm telling you something else. With this bill, things will not change dramatically, because we will have to change the whole culture we are talking about. So, what does this bill do and has he been wronged? He puts everything we have seen here that was problematic in practice and shows it as a direction, where in the end the judge will again be the sovereign to decide. We heard in this Chamber that it is unconstitutional to say that it is in the child's interest to have contact with both parents. That's what they told us, why we define direction in the best interests of the child. Seriously, there's someone over here who's coming and says he didn't want to have anything to do with his parents in the marriage partnership. So this is what is happening in marriage cohabitation, why don't we think it's in the interest? Is it not in the child's interest that decisions and provisions which come out of judges and prosecutors are executed and respected by parents? Because there are judges who will have seen, they will have listened to the children, they will have spoken with them and come to a decision. And if this decision is not respected, what are the sanctions? None! Because it can always be claimed that the decision cannot be enforced. So this bill comes in and puts some bases, gives some directions. These guidelines relate to three levels. The first level is that we want the best interests of the child. The bill remains predominantly pedophile. We are giving some directions, as they have been shaped by case-law and, as they will be, about how this interest can be served. As far as the second part is concerned, there is an objection, which I have heard, for the following reason. If the objection stayed at a technical level, I could tell you that yes, on a legal level when we say 'jointly', it obviously is exactly the same as that of either getting in or not getting in 'equivalent'. The 'equal' does not create, as many people want to believe, an extra mandatory rule of law. Once something is practiced together, it is the same. However, the legislature wants to give this direction and say that with "equivalent" it means essentially what was the case in the previous situation. Again, the court is competent to come and reason on it and to state exactly how it will be formed. But that's where I can't understand the objection - and I'm saying it! - it's about one-third. The problem of communication is that it is unstable communication. A legal framework is again in place, as to whether or not a percentage can be entered and whether the percentages, according to the Civil Code, refer only to other relationships. But let's just go for a little bit. Do we not consider, firstly, that the person who is not diligent must have a communication with the child, which will be kept? You yourself who often come and object and say if 1/3 is too much, if it's a bit, if it's on free time or if it's on real time, you're the same ones who say we don't let the courts decide. But when something is a presumption and is a fighting presumption, it means that the legislator gives direction, based on studies that have been carried out and indicate that the child should spend a third of his time with both parents. So he comes along and puts it as a presumption. Again dominated by the court will have to define communication on a case-by-case basis, where conditions are obviously different and both parents stay in a different place. Why do you know what is happening now, ladies and gentlemen? Go define communication and check a man who lives in Athens and then divorced his wife, who has diligently relocated and went to Crete, for having weekend communication than weekends and Wednesdays, to be able to go from Athens to Heraklion to have communication with the child on Wednesday. Why not allow one third of this to enter into a discussion with the judge and see that if conditions are met and this presumption can be met, to see the particular circumstances and to shape these particular circumstances? In fact, this is an attempt by the legislator to strike a balance. You have not said that it also lays down an obligation on the non-foodstuffer while it can be given. This is the first time that effective sanctions are imposed on the point where relations with the child are. It is therefore the balance that exists. And the balance is child-centered, because communication is a child-centered element of not being able to communicate with the child with his parent when the parent wants it. I have heard the criticism that says 'but if he doesn't want it...'. But if he doesn't want it, we obviously have a parent who doesn't care about the child, and no one can force the parent to communicate with the child if he doesn't want it. We are talking about cases where the parent really wants to get in touch with his child and develop the relationship with his child. And this relationship cannot be satisfied with anyone who does not have custody. Similarly, the diligent person should know that he cannot pay for nutrition, because this will bring about sanctions. Let us see what the importance of this bill is. The great importance of this bill is that, without coming to speak violently, as many people have said, in legal practice and giving directions, it will lead - the opposite to what Mr Ragus said - to resolving consensually much more cases. Because when everyone sits down and sees that there are certain criteria that will come the judge will come to assess them legally and that we no longer have an industrialized relationship to many things, as it has happened - obviously and I am not talking about the judges, because they too, with a frame of order, are deciding - we have to think about these differences now and go to what we have just said at the beginning, namely that the benefit of the child is, unfortunately, simply, to say so that we do not have a problem with the child at that time, so that we do not have a problem? I have also heard an issue that has to do with the final decision on the misconduct of custody. That is where a reflection has been made. In fact, at first it had been said whether it should have been irrevocable, while the "definitive" has entered. If the law, ladies and gentlemen, were to tell us here again - because there is an incorrect picture - that if there is no final decision, then the other would normally exercise custody, I would go into the question you are saying, if there is a criminal prosecution, if we have an irrevocable referral. However, here the legislator himself gives the opportunity, which we have discussed very much with the Minister, Mr Tsiras, and with Mr Kotsiras, that this is the "particularly". So when that happens, then it is a clear direction towards the judge, which the article itself says, as it is today. Today she is not saying anywhere that if she has been prosecuted she is a misuse of custody. The judge shall be allowed to make a full decision. Now, then, we're coming and we're putting in an extra element. This is because, when there is a final decision, I am more pressing on the judge that this cannot be overtaken. Look out! Theoretically today, if the judge wants, he can continue with a final decision. Here we put the question to the judge and say to him: 'Be careful, if there is a final decision, the legislature considers that it is a bad exercise. If there is no definitive, what is currently true. In exceptional cases where the judge considers that the individual's life or mental health is at stake, there may be a decision and then a decision may also be taken by a final court. So it's totally in the opposite direction what you believe in. Here comes an additional protectionist criterion, that the final decision is now a 'cash box' for the judge, who has so far been in his absolute judgment. However, the absolute crisis remains again for the entire previous stage, whether we have just a report or have what you have said, and rightly so, a misconduct in a hospital. Then it will be judged by the person who decides at that time and will say that I consider this document to be serious. He can make that decision. These are exceptional cases. So he's got it. Whatever the judge had to do with this day, the judge has it. It has exactly the same potential and we set some of the above parameters, including the final decision. On the other hand, if the judge does not consider it, he will have to give a reason why he does not take it into account. So, it's still on the way to securing the child. Ladies and gentlemen, because it was also said by the President of Parliament at the beginning of the standards and stereotypes that exist, for stereotypes and standards, we are all responsible and, above all, we are parents. The sexism that we see many times begins from us whether we are a father or a mother and how we raise our children. Because you often raise your child when you have a girl how to look after and not raise your child when it's a boy how to respect the girl. We see it in family gatherings how they behave. The boy's got what kind of hits he's got, and if he's got a lot of girls and they're all over it. These are the sex standards we're growing up for, unfortunately. We're starting from us, and we're all responsible for this. And that's what we're transferring to the kids. It's not just these things. It's a way of life. And the way of life is to raise our children in a way that respects one sex and one man. To raise our children and know that if we ever break up, we won't have to go to court to settle our differences. We should raise our children so that we can separate our parents. To raise our children in such a way that if that bad time comes and we need to go to court, we need to know that we will be judged by a balance where no one will be wronged. It won't change the child's school because someone's diligent and the other parent won't be informed. Because I heard the information party. So, is it bad if the kid finally leaves the private school and goes to the public? Does the other parent have to find out, who has the communication when the child meets to tell him? The law, therefore, does come and give directions. Again in the courts it will be time to decide, but above all to us if we are in this position as parents to put our children on the table and not against them, which will have developed between the two parents. All the remarks heard are respected. We are listening to them with a great deal of attention. It is very unfair, however, to try in such a bill that on different sides, without party identity, you will listen to different positions, to try and party that it has other features. I wish in practice what is coming and bringing the Justice Minister to apply in such a way that there is a winner, a child.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u156	After the Step is fired, we will give the floor to the Secretary General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitris Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a particularly sensitive issue today, a very serious issue, such as parental relations with their children. The Communist Party of Greece has stated clearly about the need to legally provide for the joint exercise of parental care and the consultation of the two parents in the matter of custody, which needs to be focused on the needs and interests of the child. This need, of course, also arises from the objective changes in working conditions, the conditions of young parents. For example, more and more women work as hirers or self - employed with the well - known tire hours. It is therefore imperative that divorced parents or parents who have acquired children outside of marriage or cohabitation pact cooperate better with each other for their children. The JRC's position concerns the joint responsibility of parents, the effective participation of both in child rearing and care. This means that all decisions on all serious issues of the child must be taken together. And when we talk about the child, for example, we talk about his education, his education, the critical health issues, and so much more. The child, of course, will live mainly with one parent and will, as far as possible, have wider communication with the other. The question, however, is sufficient legislation to support both parents in their efforts to take parental care together? Obviously not. In fact, the vast majority of the scientific and social bodies involved in the debate in Parliament's committees agreed and stressed that horizontal support measures for divorced parents from the state itself are needed. Because beyond the level of agreement not all couples face the same difficulties in caring for children, especially after a divorce. They have a decisive influence on this a number of economic and social factors. In practice, workers, unemployed parents face additional obstacles to the distribution and exercise of parental care, from how to maintain two homes to how to communicate with each other about the child’s program. And all these problems, of course, remain even if both parents fully agree on how to overthrow their child. But what are you doing with this bill? You are trying to resolve this complex issue with a formal, administrative, judicial, if you like, as all previous governments have done so far. We are listening to the great words of the Minister for a truly brave reform that Greek society needs. Not a word, however, about how they will rely on wholeheartedly, economically, legally, but also on their parents and children. Not even a legislative measure provides for such real support, not even one for the eyes of the world. And not just that. Here you are making the lives of young couples even more suffocating with the anti-government monstrosity that you bring as a government - not your Ministry, another Ministry, but the government - which comes to be added to the previous laws of the working jungle which, unfortunately, you also voted as governments, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the Change Movement. Truly, how will they share the parental care of children after divorce a working mother in a supermarket and a working father in food - tourism or in telecommunications when they work break hours, in the morning, when they even work on Sundays. We even hear you say with courage, in order to present as supposedly a charitable bill, which comes and defends the ten-hour job, such as a mother working - said Mr Hatzidakis - four days, ten hours to see the child for the remaining three days. Motherhood, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is not a rotating job. I can't be a parent three days and the other four days not to be. What mother and who father can have quality time for his children when for four days he will be working, he will be dug up, put in addition and take it - come to work every day and return home when the child is now asleep. And since Sunday he's seen it last time he'll see it again next Friday at noon, because on Friday morning he'll take the kids to school or to the nursery, and that with the soul in the mouth. Because in the meantime, he'll have to go after a supermarket, pay bills, cook for the weekend, but also prepare food for the next few days, and he won't make it. This life, permanent running - hell, with working hours - elastic in the workplace is not the choice of the workers themselves. It is the result of your anti-corruption laws, according to business groups requirements, which eventually break down personal, family, social life, eliminate any free time. But the effective involvement of both parents in raising the child is degraded not only by today's barbarism, but also by provisions of your particular bill. You try to solve a real need, such as the child's communication time with the parent who does not live with him, with mathematical formulas. But are these things going on? So, how will the parent, who doesn't have custody, be involved in the daily life of the child? How will such a complex and sensitive issue be regulated on a regular basis when these working conditions exist, these hours, when these conditions exist for young parents? With the computer? You claim that this bill defends the interests of children, because you ensure the active presence of both parents in the daily life of the child, regardless of whether parents are at marriage, cohabitation or not. In fact, the contribution of both parents to bringing up the child can work in his own interests. But how are you really protecting the interests of the child with this bill, when the two parents' attempt to regulate their relationship with the child is their individual case without any substantial state support when you put all the burdens on childcare? The judge will be given the opinion of specialist scientists - psychologists, social workers, pediatricians, public social services - who could not only contribute to the judge's decision but also monitor the implementation of decisions during the course. In this context, the family courts could also function. How do you protect the interests of the child when, in the name of the decongestion of the courts, you are pushing parents into private ombudsmen instead of taking up judges and judges? We have already tabled concrete proposals and amendments for effective support for divorced parents to regulate these complex issues in the interests of their children. First of all, we are talking about free counselling and other social services, such as family and couple treatment programmes, parental and child counselling, which will support parents in the joint exercise of parental responsibility, normalise conflicts between parents and limit divorces leading to judicial rooms. At the same time, we have tabled specific proposals for the financial support of divorced parents with tax relief, with allowances. On the occasion of today's debate, we would particularly like to address the workers and unemployed parents who have been watching and following with great interest and concern the debate on the amendment of the provisions of family law all these months and today. In order to obtain substantial content, however, the equal participation of both parents in the care of their children is required to meet certain economic and social conditions, in order to support what we call 'joint parental care'. In order to do this they need to claim such support measures, because any changes in the legal framework for the regulation of parental and child relations, especially after a divorce, remain empty when there are no economic and social support measures for divorced parents, when both parents are deprived of the right to stable work, stable working hours, with decent incomes based on modern needs. Of course, we are 100% confident that the real interest of our children and our essential contribution to their care can be ensured in a society where development has a criterion for all the social needs of many, and not a suffocating link between the profits of the few. The struggles of young parents can find a way out in the collective struggle to break out the thorn of exploitation, oppression. Because this is the thorn that tears up modern possibilities, to be able to live as we deserve the 21st century, and we and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuba. The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis will now be given the floor, and we will then begin the third cycle of speakers with a natural presence. Before Mr Grigoriadis begins, I would like to inform the House that it will be taken into account by those who are speakers today, for the following reason: we consider that the sitting will be concluded with the number sixty. So the third, fourth and fifth speakers will be exhausted today, and tomorrow we will begin with the sixth circle of speakers. Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, may I ask you: seriously, now, together and equally? I would like to ask all of you, but above all the Minister. Together and equally? But he's a child, Minister, it's not an estate, it's not a plot to get it and have it indivisible. It's a human soul! Look, it's not worth the trouble of getting into a lot of trouble with the bill, not because it's not important - it's perhaps one of the most important things to vote on and we wish you didn't vote on this particular thing as it is - but because it's already within the New Democracy party - thankfully! - There were people who put things in place. I would repeat what Mrs Giannakou and Mrs Kefaloniann have said, as they have said themselves. And also, believe me, I have no desire to create or bet on ignition of inner-party deserts within the government party. Not at all. I will say, however, that the way you handled this matter, Mr Minister, in my personal opinion, and indeed in public - and when I say it publicly, you know where, in the first subject - I will say that the disagreements - I will say so, to be more precise than I - are bitter about their personal experience on the same subject, it simply shows and clearly proves that you now, unfortunately, have become a new Luben New Democracy. They are luben behaviors and they are inconsistent with nothing, with any culture of any country in the world. It cannot, in other words, whenever I disagree with Mr Varoufakis - because I will disagree and may have already disagreed on various issues - someone say that I am hurt because I had nothing to do with my girls or my boys if I was gay. It can't be done in 2021. It's too heavy and you'll have to take care of it. Also, children are not a prize. I have a child, and I know. Children are human beings. You know, once I heard something - from a morbid curiosity, because I don't believe in them - by the Greek who is higher at the levels of "MENSA", i.e. the special genius of people. I inform you, as far as this Greek is concerned, that there is another one in 100 million with such intelligence, according to the measurement "MENSA", which means that on our continent, let us have another one like this Greek. This Greek, who talked at all times about all humanity issues, do you know where he focused his speech? He said: "We're making a big mistake like humanity. We treat children like children. We have made them a name for it, as if it were something else." He said: "Don't ever forget in your life, for any reason, that children are just people who are at another age, at an early age, but that's why they must also have enhanced rights." And I can explain: from the first article of your bill, Minister, the problem is evident. Write in word: Purpose - has your bill - to serve the best interests of her child through the active presence of both parents during her upbringing. The problem is, in our opinion, identified in the second sentence which defines for the whole, namely, in all cases as the best interest of the child the presence of both parents in his rearing. From the lips of the Minister himself, that is, from you, Minister, it has become clear how your Government means normal and proper, as it has linked the normal psychosocial maturation of children to the upbringing of the framework - who else? - a natural nuclear family, of course - and this implies, of course - all the children of the single parents, of the homosexuals, of the LGBTKI or of any other kind of family as problematic children. And be careful, this is also a luben occasion for 2021. The whole world knows that there are no such divisions anymore and all educated people on earth laugh at such divisions. There is no disagreement from us that the existence in the lives of adult children, who started to raise them, would be the best case. However, without this being a rule in any way, as we know that there are adult parents who have violations, who have problems, are alcoholics, they are drug addicts, they beat their women and their children. As a rule, ninety-nine times in a thousand, not to say nine hundred ninety-nine thousand ninety-nine times in a million is a man behind this home violence. So under the responsibility of your Government and the cloak of the interests of children, the child, such a sensitive issue was transferred to the arena after the race, as the interests of the child in the thinking of your bill are identified with the interest of certain fathers who seek more active role in raising their children. No problem with that. I'm also a father who's divorced, and I have an active role in the magnification of my child since I broke up. The best interests of the child are thus served in name only, since the government seems directly and in advance before we even start the debate in plenary to choose a side. So he chooses a side in a completely anachronistic and falsified feminine clash that wants women's organisations - here's why it's really comicotragic - in Greece supposedly conquered the legal favor and so the judicial authority, which works for their benefit. On the contrary, as we all know, those who live in the real world, this racial conflict between men and women is very strong and very strong and in all other aspects of our social life with constants - and we all know them in here - the roles of this perpetrator and victim, as our international and domestic experience has shown, especially recently with the emergence of the Greek "Me Too". We didn't hear any woman being accused of raped, no woman being accused of bullying. We only heard men, exclusively men, whether we're talking about the theatre, dancing or the rhythmic gymnastics. I want to say that, too, because I can't keep it any longer in me. What happened with the rhythmic gymnastics to know is something really dangerous for our country. This is not about the perverseness of some perverted people or subjects - if you prefer - who have been coaches for so many years. It's about a dominant ideology. You know what these people were saying? They said this was the successful recipe. And you know what the most tragic thing is? That this supposedly successful inhumane fascist recipe has brought results for so many years to our homeland. And we accepted these results, which were a product of torture. We have to stop, we have to change and it's urgent. Now, it's touching. I'll say a good word about your resignation with all my heart. You have become a Luben New Democracy, a Luben New Democracy, a New Republic of "A.E. Mrs.Mitsotakis, the first members of this S.A., would say that if he were not Kyriakos Mitsotakis, it would be Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Vorides, who just left and is not here, Mr. Ploris. I mean, the right side of you, that would be. However, she has dominated. It turns out worse than the Samaritan New Democracy, which was the most extreme right we've ever seen at government level I mean "democracy. There you have arrived and you have chosen to rule you your most right-wing side. But today it seemed something great for you. Today it seemed that a large part of your party, of the people who make up your parliamentary group, are people who continue to have democratic reflexes and who continue to defend their views. I wholeheartedly congratulate you on this step forward in enabling these people to speak, on the way they have said it freely and I ask you to listen to them. This is not generally the case. He doesn't dare talk to anyone else. They dare speak very strong political faces. Good for you who, like Mrs Giannakou and Mrs Kefaloniann, dare and can speak against the bill brought by the Minister of Government. However, this is not enough. It's not enough they can tell. Think if I have a say in opposition. If the Communist Party has a say - a reason for opposition, if SYRIZA, if the Greek Solution, Mrs Giannakou and Mrs Kefaliannis can have nothing else that pushes them but her true faith that this bill, instead of improving - and I think you want to improve things, Mr Minister, but I inform you, as well as my sister is a pediatrician, that it will not improve things - it will worsen them. I will finally make use of the whole year, Mr President, because I have a few things to say which I consider to be important. I consider it very important first of all to refer to the amendment, which you have the opportunity to vote again, because we will re-evaluate it as promised to you until the full-scale examinations, this amendment, which will bring justice back to Greek democracy and enable the students of the summer high school to enter the universities. To make people understand what has happened so far. He said the legislator: These people work by raising children many times when they are adults and because they in any case study workers from eight to twelve hours, they are not equal to the other children who give them pan-Hellenic since they are often growing up and their own children - that is, they are adults - that is why I have a provision in my legal system and I say that from all of the people who will enter the higher education establishments in the country, regardless of their performance, 1%, one percent will be the best performances of those students in these high schools. With the inconsistent inconsistency - and I am sorry for the expression - of Mrs Kerame's inequality that she allegedly restores a level playing field, that is one justice, she said that why these children should have this advantage? Don't you understand, my Mrs. Kerameau? Because they work 12 hours a day, so they have the advantage of raising their own children! Excuse me, I'm confused. I'll try to calm down. But I'm upset because this attitude is toxic. And we will be here looking at you all in the eyes and Mrs Giannakou and Mrs Kefaloyannis, who have shown their democratic reflexes a little while ago, to tell them that we have time to say that it is an injustice that you have time to restore. We're begging you again. We're not fighters - and we're fighters - but I'm mostly begging you: Rehabilitate her. These children, these poor children, who work from children until they have their own children, but do not give up desire for progress in self - cultivation, have the right to become scientists. Let them go, don't waste the legs on them. I'm on it. Today, as you know, the evacuation of the “Embros” theatre took place. I have the luck and honour of having played a protagonist in this theater directed by Tassos Bandis in the bright season, which was held by Mr. Katalifos and Mrs. Economics, some of the greatest theatres in this country. And I know, I know. If what happened today is the famous return to normality, which our Prime Minister announced in his last lecture, which means that after a slight pause, due to a very great increase in the victims of the pandemic, you will officially beat us, we do not want to go back to normality at all. We prefer to remain in the anomaly. You had ceased after Nea Smyrna and the failures that took place there by the Ministry of Civil Protection, because that is all it is to increase violence, for months it has been to beat the Greek people. Looks like you're back on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not be long, Mr President. This "Embros" theatre, which had been abandoned since 2009 by the country in its fate, has been taken over by the citizens, who live there and a group of people and I tell you and who exactly they are. After three years of abandoning all the Memorandum Governments of Greece, an initiative by a group of artists "Mavili Movement" as it was called by the participation and support of the move of Psyrri residents as well as other artists and theorists from the field of artistic arts and music took over. Look at the time he's been in so far, do you know what these people were doing at "EMPROS"? They did four hundred different performances, plays in theatres uploaded, even his former director's national Mr. Lignade has not done such a job - more than two thousand performances in total, there were four hundred 50 concerts, and artistic groups support events, over three hundred speeches and lectures. What's the matter with you? Do you mind culture? Do you mind the mind? What's the matter with you? The EMPROS has been cleared up today. You will see, here we will be if your Government has not fallen as I wish, and in one year's time I will tell you again that it is devastated as it was three years before taking an initiative of artists and citizens. And I am ending by of course closing with me on 21 May, the day after tomorrow, which is the world day of civilization. It has been issued by the trade union body of all people working in culture, the PDO, a call at a protest gathering, which says that on May 21st, which is the world cultural day last year, we had made a great mobilization which forced Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to visit the rehearsal - these wonderful events - the National Theatre in an attempt to overshadow our own demands. This year, there is no idea in the world that culture is opening up and going through difficult times. Because culture won't open. "All Greece opens up a culture", which will go hand in hand again, as was the case last year. The overwhelming majority of my colleagues - all my colleagues, and the singers, and the dancers, and the Muslims, and the directors, and the clothingists, and the makeupists and the makeupists - will continue to be invisible to the entire political system that has governed this country, will continue to starve. Well, this year's not the idea. Few of us will manage to work and it will be very critical to achieve an extension of support measures for them, 80% or 85%, which will not be able to work. They should be supported in the summer by support measures. That's why we're organizing tomorrow, on May 21st at 19.00 out here to make a fuss, a gathering in Syntagma square where we'll make a fuss about what we have, with whistles, with buds, screaming with our lungs. We are going to make a fuss about our culture, condemned to absolute silence. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u160	All right, thank you. We enter the third circle of speakers with the first speaker, which we call on the Step, Mr Ioannis - Michael Loverdos. Mrs Agathopoulos, Mr Papadimitriou, Mr Kastanides and Mr. Ceridis will be followed. It's the first five in the third circle, which starts now. You have the floor, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was challenged by my good friend Claus Gregoriadis, and I can't leave what he said unanswered. Indeed, dear Claus, at the “Embros” theatre, I had seen shocking performances from a colossus such as Bandis, Katalifos and Rania Economics. I imagine you'll have seen the same performances. In the self-managed "EMPROS" how many performances have you seen? I don't. And most people, that is, none. You know, occupying a public building to make so-called cultural events is illegal in our country and in all countries of the world. Unless you guys think it's a normal thing. We don't think so. We consider it to be downhill and downhill the "Embros" theatre of Badis to become the way he came down. And I want to say something else. If your concept of culture is the bouzelas, I'm sorry, but it's not ours. For us, it's a decline. We have different concepts, it's legitimate. That is why we are here to say our views and the Greek people are judged and decided and chooses those who want to rule him. The same thing happened in 2019 and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis with the Minister of Justice Kostas Tsira brings this bill which, as I understand it, causes great reactions to opposition and some reactions within the New Democracy. It is perfectly normal because the Members are there to shut up, as their role says, and have the right to express their views freely and to vote consciously. He said Mr Ragus, SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, that the Tsiara and Mitsotakis bill, because it is total, it is the government's, it is not only Chiara's aim to get any diaphragms, that it is intended to win votes. But if the purpose of this bill was to win votes, New Democracy wouldn't even bring it. He would have done what you did, which you say you are rightful, that is, we would have no change in family law, and especially in the matter of child care, because it is worn down from whatever side. We wouldn't bring this bill. If he were someone else in the place of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Kostas Tsiara, I'm sure they wouldn't have brought it. And perhaps they did well, for political reasons they might have to. However, we have forgotten when the last change and revision of family law took place. It was made in 1983 on the government of PASOK and Andreas Papandreou. Since then, nothing else has happened. Since then, they've changed, they've been almost 40 years, everything. Even on the issue of divorces, have you realised that we have more than doubled divorces, unfortunately, sadly today than we had in 1983? Have you realised that the children of some of these marriages, which are being made smoothly, are not being confronted between parents, but in many cases children become a ball between the two parents and very hard indeed, and I would say very dishonestly in some cases? At the moment, this bill is intended, in my opinion, and I assume that it is Mr Chiara's intention to protect the child rather than the parents. The child is our priority because the child needs both of his parents, dear friends and friends. She needs both parents. And you know, a divorce may be very hard and parents have colluded. You may be a bad husband, but you might be a good parent. There's a difference between one and the other. I may have divorced with my wife and passion against her, but that doesn't mean I'm a bad father. As a woman, whom her husband cheated, beat her, abused her, and hated her ex-husband, yet she still has the child's right to grow with both of his parents. Of course I understand that there are too many reactions on the one hand and on the other, both from fathers and from mothers. They consider that, because they put their personal experiences ahead, they are affected by this bill. This bill is nothing perfect, it's nothing amazing, it's nothing great. It is an attempt made by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy to balance matters since 1983. It is a moderate reform that will help protect the child as much as possible in his grandma so that he can have both parents with him. From there on, as has been said quite rightly, it is a matter of the courts. Every case is different. Not all cases are the same. As we are not all the same in life, it is not the case of families themselves. Another family divorces well and can live well their children and grow loved ones and other families are in the knives. Every case is different. We will not judge that. It will not be judged either by the government or by the parliament. The courts will judge it. Where I agree, there is a need for better courts. You know, the judges are not familiar with these matters, and I am glad that this effort is included in order to have some seminars on the judges. I will also agree with the opposition, and with the Change Movement and with the SYRIZA who said so, that at some point we should also form family courts here in Greece when these possibilities exist, because a great effort needs to be made. It is a reform that I would like to see, but it is not possible from one moment to the next. And I conclude by saying, because Mr Ragus also mentioned it, and the opposition, said Mr Ragus, that the attitude adopted by Mrs Giannakou and Mrs Kefaloyannis does not hurt us. Of course it doesn't hurt us. Both colleagues, whom I very much appreciate, have not only had the right to say them, but they have shown something much more than anything else, that the New Democracy is a large party which includes many views in its ranks, a large liberal and, in particular, a democratic party, which each Member has the right of his opinion, and that is the quintousity of democracy and parliamentaryism. I hope that the example of the New Democracy will be followed by you in opposition too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u162	Now the lady has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, my dear colleague in the New Democracy said something and I want a minute's reason for redeployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u164	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr. Loverdo, my colleague, I'm afraid you either didn't understand or for some reason didn't come up with the joke that the Minister rewarded with the... I referred to the bouzeles and the screaming of my lungs by meaning, as I have clearly said, that we are making a fuss at a gathering - we are not producing art - tomorrow in the Constitution and we will be making a fuss about culture, which you have all condemned together in silence. And I'll also tell you that I'm in favor of legitimacy, Mr. Loverdos. I'm not in favour of taking over places. But do you realise the moral illegality or legality, as one considers it, that an area so prosperous and useful is left out of all the Greek governments in their luck and ruin? So I say that it is clearly illegal to occupy a space, but it is very illegal that Greece has such a history, with such a story, to leave it in its luck. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u166	All right, all right, Mr. Gregoryade. We will now give the floor to Mrs Irene - Eleni Agathopoulos from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, Minister, you have just left the Chamber, Mr Secretary-General, Deputy Minister, today we have been waiting, after the statements and Mrs Peloni, for you to consider the proposals of the opposition and you can accept some amendments. We waited for you to come and suggest some of the changes that we recommended to you both of the opposition parties, Members of your party, the Scientific Service of Parliament, as Mr. Xanthopoulou, the Citizens' Counselor, the assembly of lawyers' associations, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, the EMCDDA, Amnesty International, the women's and feminist organizations from Greece and abroad. I'm presenting you here, in case you haven't seen it, their memo. One hundred and four so far the signatories. So all those who I mentioned, oh the miracle, agree with the fundamental changes that need to be made: the abolition of 'equal' by Article 15, 13, the abolition of the arithmetic presumption of communication time, the change in the narrow definition of the interests of the child referred to in Article 15, 11 and the issues of domestic violence. These are the basics for us. Instead of taking these proposals from the parties and institutions into account and placing them on board, so far you have not recommended any change and the Members of the co-population that have been put forward have clearly not followed the dialogue of all these days, they simply come to read the Ministry's non-document. They have neither heard the objections of the bodies nor complaints of interest groups, which serves the bill nor the existing problems it does not solve. And they didn't answer any of that. Also, Mr Ministers, you did not hear, as it turns out, the most serious complaints about the pressures that the Ministry has received from powerful lobbys, which have spent millions of millions of dollars on advertising and forced public bodies to make sponsorships. Because if you'd heard of it, you'd be bothering to comment on it. Neither you nor your MPs have failed. On the other hand, you did not fail to mention Mrs Giannakou and Mrs Kefaloniann publicly and say that they react to the bill on the basis of their personal experiences and judge them for that, because according to you, we should not legislate on the basis of personal experiences and petitions. And I'm asking: Really? Are you really saying that? If we are well aware of the fact that there were at least two members who tried to legislate on the basis of personal experience, two members who were incompatible with their role in the committee. Was these two members also finally the ones that voted against in the committee on the important articles of the bill, as we heard in the hearing of the bodies with overwhelming 16, 2, but were their own proposals accepted by the Ministry? Are you going to answer that? However, I feel that what we were going to tell you these days and not just us, as I mentioned to you, but all the institutions, the Scientific Service of the Parliament and so on. You don't listen, you don't want to hear or you're on an orderly service. I would like to address the Deputy Minister of Labour responsible for equality and family policy, which should be here today, but her absence these days is deafening. Until yesterday we thought that he was absent because he disagreed with the provisions of the bill and did not want to disturb the cohesion of the government. Yesterday you betrayed her and said that she has worked with us and tabled proposals. And if that's true, it's even worse than our original case. Because if the State Secretary for Equality agrees with a bill they have condemned and called for the withdrawal of women's organisations from all over the political spectrum, from the right to the extreme left, something is very wrong with the policies that the Ministry is responsible for racial equality. And so, Mrs Syrenegala does not come into play because she disagrees with the bill, but agrees and tries to avoid social outcry and the signal of the only government representative responsible for equality from post-Migration, who produces policies contrary to gender equality. Today, the association of workers from the General Secretariat of Equality said something even more serious, that the staff of the service were never asked to participate in the dialogue on family law, because according to the Secretary-General and former Secretary-General, this dialogue concerned only the child and not gender equality. I'm still asking: Seriously? Your explanatory statement states that the principle of equality between parents and rights vis-à-vis the child is laid down in this law. Do you think that the equality of parents towards their children, within and outside marriages, is not a matter of gender equality, but is a matter of dryness of a bill that defines children's custody? What more anachronistic are we going to hear in here? I would also like to tell you here, Minister, on issues of gender equality, that 86% of marriages, which are resolved consensually, as Mr Ragus and other speakers have said, where parents decide whether mother or father will be diligent, once again in the vast majority mother gets diligence and not because a law or a judge says so, but because with these family standards we are growing up in Greek society. I wish it were otherwise, that women would have had more time for themselves and that men would have participated more in and out of marriage in raising their children. We all want that. But this is unfortunately not the case until today. And what we tell you from the first committee is that this is not just done by pressing a button, simply by changing this law here. That is why joint diligence cannot be mandatory and must not be crossed side by side. It is not compulsory anywhere in Europe and we will be condemned by European and international courts for this. And I shall end, Mr President, by saying that it is clear that the draft law is about gender equality. If he did not do so, the 'CEDAW', the UN Monitoring Committee for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, would not ask questions in our country and in family law. And among the questions which he sends, which you had before you started to legislate, but which you do not take into account, is whether there are any provisions, including the same sex couples in the regulations of family law, and whether there is provision for the introduction of a child's allowance in the event of a non-paid child. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I will give you the full questionnaire of 'CEDAW' in detail if you have not seen it. But you know these questions before you legislate. Also, the GREVIO Committee, which is responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Istanbul Convention, will send you a questionnaire in September for evaluation and expect you to be asked about family law and will be a trick because the Istanbul Convention is violated by this bill and its reference to Article 1 does not save the situation nor the reference to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The child’s interest is not what is served by this bill. We'll find it in front of us, you'll find it in front of you, and we'll be here to discuss it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Papadimitriou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Madam President. I think I have not been able to speak with another Bureau. That's good. The truth is that I would first of all like to say that I was in difficulty as to how to deal with the issues that were reasonably brought to our debate by Parliament in the New Democracy, in part too, by the Opposition. And I have benefited very much from the debate that we had in Parliament. That is very good and it would be even better if this debate were able to take it to society and take the reaction and opinion of the people who will be called and implemented the law and function, live within the new legal framework. Because, between us now, the most important thing is what people think when they say "I will have a child" and, above all, what the woman believes when she makes the decision and consents to the creation of a child. And unfortunately, when it has been forty years since the previous change, when the schools, women or people who have to deal with - I would say - education, but even with information, when even the courts are not dealing in depth and with the strong belief that at that time they are doing something very important and simply doing something, then our society is not ready to deal with very difficult cases. Fortunately, however, in most cases - and you will allow me to do something different from what I have done for thirty years, to see the good side on the other hand - and in more and more cases, people behave in a mature way, at least as far as children are concerned. I do not believe that Hollywood's culture is more important than the culture that the Greeks and Greeks have in these matters. Because I know how much this society loves her children and takes care of them, she has them humiliated. And I do not think you should let Hollywood further train the generations now called upon to bring new lives to our side. We therefore need to put a great deal of emphasis on the training of judges and, of course, they also need time to do so. Most of all, however, I will take the proposal tabled by the Secretary-General of the Communist Party, Mr Koutsoubas, saying something that I think we all agree should be given great weight to what we call consultation. And she needs it anyway in too many moments of life. Therefore, gaining more skilled professionals in this job is extremely important. If we look at it, we will see - and it was stressed by all the speakers - that most divorces are consensual. What does that mean? It means that we have started and tried to find a better solution, in a very bad situation. Because no one separates, if there is no reasonable reason, a strong shock. That's what the statistics say. However, the fact that the consensus divorce has prevailed, the fact that the majority of the House had in the previous period and now, even more with the electronic possibility, we can go quickly. This means that in this period, which is very difficult, we do not create any further frictions. So all the weight can be dropped - in fact - in children and in the way in which common life will continue, in terms of children's education and custody. So what the law says in a happy manner also applies the Constitution, namely the joint custody of children, is the important one. And there is no reason to change this, Minister, when we come to see the case - let's say it - of the difficulty or of the accident in common life. So the joint is what should inspire us and the equal is what must lead parents' steps, whether they live together or not. Not living two parents, who don't want to live together, are an act of freedom. And that is the positive side, the act of freedom, which must inspire their actions and, obviously, the conscientiousness of children, a condition that must be established. Thank you, Mr Chiara, for bringing this to the House and for finally doing something new in a difficult area, but crucial, namely to respond to how younger people see this case, we have a child, two children or more together. I also note that most marriages are being solved in ages over forty years, above all, of course, for men and less for women - expected - and that most marriages, which are being solved, have a common life of ten years behind them. So these are elements which should make us hope that what we have dealt with in detail - and we have done well - is the few - we must hope - cases where there is difficulty. However, since these cases are difficult, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, are cases of tragic and dangerous co-existence, I would suggest that you find a way - and you have put the word 'definite' - which, although it is right - to strengthen the legal measures and the capacity of the courts, in particular, the prosecutors, to act quickly and to have a responsibility for this. Because there will no longer be cases where acts of violence, which have occurred and have led to divorce rightfully - and so it must be - can lead to even greater violence and even worse situations. So you must strengthen this at the first opportunity, so that the prosecutor, the judge, the police are of course responsible for this matter. That's where we'll have taken a step. And here we are, after several years, when the new situation, the conspiracy, see what else we need to change. Some will even be here and some will do it in our place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u171	Madam President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u172	Yes, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u173	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you realise that I have not been tempted to respond, while respecting the parliamentary procedure, since all opinions must be heard. Because tomorrow morning there will be some legislative improvements, I think it is important that some of them should be known in this House from today. I would like to tell you that in essence, taking into account what the Scientific Committee of the Parliament has submitted in its report, Article 7 of the draft law is added to paragraph 1 as follows. In the first paragraph of Article 1510 of the Civil Code, after the words ‘jointly’ are added the words ‘and equally’ and the text is formulated as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u174	It didn't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u175	I'll make it clear, Mr. Blondopoulos. 'The care for the child is the duty and right of parents - parental care - who exercise it jointly and equally.' We are talking about 1510, so that it will be in line with the specific article in the bill. The second point relates to the first subparagraph of Article 8(2) of the draft law. After the words ‘and in mediation’ the words ‘except in cases of domestic violence as defined by the law’ shall be added.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u176	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u177	...so that the last window of dispute which, in our opinion, existed throughout, I would say, the structure of the bill, but in order that there was no such thing as that. Finally, in the fifth paragraph of Article 17 of the draft law after the words 'in particular' are added the words 'the International Convention on the Rights of the Child and' in order to refer specifically to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Castanides from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, the subject under regulation is a field of flammable social relations. One can often meet, instead of logic, personal conflict and passion. That is why we have encountered conflicts between each other in the public debate, not only in the House today or in the parliamentary committee, but also in the scientific dialogue and between bodies. That was why, Minister, at the last meeting of the parliamentary committee, I suggested that you look for converging areas and meet, before the start of the plenary, with the rapporteurs of the parties, in order to find commonly accepted solutions, which I believe we can even now find. Joint parental care is absolutely necessary and desirable. I don't think anyone can argue with that. But, when marriage is solved, we need to find those operating rules so that the exercise of common parental responsibility is pragmatic and beneficial for the child. Otherwise, we may be confronted with insurmountable problems of everyday life. I will make a few suggestions, Minister, making my role a synthetic one and I hope you can hear us. I begin with the comments of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. I suppose you have rightly diagnosed that the Scientific Committee of the Parliament in its report is not flattering on the arrangements you are proposing. I would say that it is rather convicted and I would suggest that you adopt other ideas, as you have just announced two of them, and the improvements you are proposing are positive. And I'm explaining. The first article of the bill defines as an interpretative rule the provisions of the bill in particular the Istanbul Convention and other international conventions. You are right to accept the point made by the Scientific Service of Parliament that, among the conventions which must be mentioned and which constitute an interpretative rule for the provisions you are proposing, it must also be the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Because it is strange that the effort of the government and the Convention on the Rights of the Child should be defined as a child's rights as being an interpretative, guiding rule. So it's right that the integration you've accepted is correct. Secondly, the Scientific Service also told you that since we choose to refer to the Istanbul Convention, we should also respect it absolutely. Up to now mediation, which is a solution, a possibility for the philosopher's couple, could be about the full extent of the quarrel and even domestic violence. However, the Istanbul Convention explicitly prohibits mediation in the event of domestic violence. Therefore, we should exclude mediation in such cases, and therefore the correction is correct. However, other improvements must also be made. You say that parental care, the joint exercise of parental care, when the marriage is solved, must serve the best interests of the child. The expression ‘best interest’ is unscientific and does not meet either in the texts of the international conventions or in the applicable Civil Code or in the case-law of the supreme courts of the country. 'Best interest' means absolutely nothing. It's in the best interests of the child. As Greek case law states, the interests of the child are the whole of their moral, intellectual and life-rights, which, with their respect, facilitates the creation of an integrated personality. So it adds nothing, rather confusion, the expression 'best interest'. I would ask you to withdraw, delete the word 'best'. It is enough that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights suggests that the common exercise of parental responsibility should serve the interests of the child. Next observation. You say that parental care should be exercised, in the case of a marriage solution, jointly and equally. What does "also" mean? It does not help you to "equate" to anything and I will explain it. If the equally exercise of common parental responsibility has the meaning of 'equivalent', you do not need it, because it is already laid down as a rule in Article 5 of your draft law, in the third paragraph, the principle of equality, in which it is recorded precisely that the decision of the court must also respect equality between parents and not discriminate on grounds of sex, sexual orientation, race, language, religion or other matters. If you mean ‘equal’, then you should state it, enter it in your text. But that is wrong, because it will create many practical issues. That is why I propose that you adopt a much more delicate wording of the legislative committee. I read on behalf of my fellow Members the wording of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which I consider to be more practicable: 'The parent with whom the child does not reside retain the right to more extensive personal communication as far as possible'. This wider personal communication condemns and 1/3 that you, as an imputable time, implied. It could be much more than 1/3 or less, but the possibility of wider personal communication is, however, a beautiful wording, much more complete and more coherent than you are proposing. So I suggest that you return from the "equivalence" and the imputed time of 1/3. I'm rereading it. ‘The parent with whom the child does not reside retains the right to the widest possible personal communication with the child’. I'm ending up with this. There is an issue of unconstitutionalism highlighted by the Scientific Service of the Parliament. It is obvious that for the day-to-day management of the affairs of the child first the parent with whom the child resides must make the decision. When matters are more serious, not daily care, there must of course always be consultation between the two parents. But it stipulates that for matters of everyday life it is also an obligation for the parent with whom the child is staying to inform at all times, so that he may have the relevant approval from the other parent. This is a unilateral and irreversible contract between the two parties of the broken marriage. Because one does not have the responsibility of everyday life, the other has the responsibility of everyday life, but you oblige him to inform and probably delay decisions for the child's vital interests. I am right to point out that this heterogeneous relationship can also raise issues of unconstitutionality. Therefore, Minister, I would suggest that it should not be mandatory to inform and approve issues of child-care by the parent who does not live with the child. I hope there will be synthetic solutions by the end of the day. Because such hot, warm, social problems do not fall short of understanding, but understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Khiridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by saying that I agree with Mr Castanides' speech and congratulate him on his speech this morning. It was really a very touching speech in the context of the anniversary event of our Parliament on the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou. I wish I could say the same about his speech which has just been preceded. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very serious bill on a very serious issue, a very serious part that our Government, the New Democracy Government, is doing in modernising our family law. There has been a great deal of talk in the committees and today. However, I think the major one has not been heard, which must be heard. As moderate, consensual and low-tons that one can and must be on such an issue, which touches thousands of families, if he wants to be truly honest, he must admit the truth, that we are dealing with a tragedy today. The situation today is tragic. It affects hundreds of thousands of families, hundreds of thousands of children, and every year tens of thousands of new families and young children are added, over ten thousand a year, divorced, who are mostly divorced, even when they do not go to court and issues are resolved consensually, because there is case law, they grow and are forced to grow without one parent mostly. Parental alienation is a major problem in our society and we are now being called upon to answer whether we will allow it to continue at the expense of our children and at the expense of our own society, what society we want, what children we want, when we know from science the great blow that this is for their development. We are therefore forced by the tragic reality that we must sincerely recognise, move on to change. Two. We are not where we were in 1983 when the present family law was introduced. Our society has changed. The forty years that took place have seen the role of fathers differently. We're not where our fathers and grandparents were. Today's fathers - and I say it as a new father himself and offend me any other type of approach - are very involved in bringing up their children. They're interested in hair and they're involved in it within marriage, but when he doesn't go well they want and they can out of marriage. To come the extreme folkist, if you want, Right to invoke the model of a traditional family, which is no longer there where the mother is in the food house and the father hunter out of the house and doesn't care about the children, to accept it. But to help this outdated perception and the so-called progressive in this House, within and outside, I think we are talking about a paradox and a really strange alliance that should concern you, Mr Colleague. He told us very well today and surprised us with the comparative list of countries he gave us. We don't. The representative of the Communist Party says so. To see how tragicly back and alone Greece is compared to the others who have moved to joint custody. Thirdly, another paradox has been heard. Are we going to guide the judge? I didn't understand that. Is the role of legislative power, the role of the Parliament as the original expressor of popular sovereignty, not to put the framework within which the judge will move? Are we a state of judges or a state of popular sovereignty expressed through the House? Laws are being passed and they are being called upon to apply the courts. This framework attempts the bill with a fighting presumption. It gives a direction but leaves the judge on the occasion and the particular circumstances to decide, judge and end. The basic principle is that, first of all, as a rule, what applies within marriage to children should also apply outside, and that is why we welcome the change so that in 1513, Minister, 1510, is treated in a marriage together and equally off-marriage. Unless, of course, the judge decides otherwise, and if there are particularities on the basis of which we need an exception. But this as a start and a bump. Definitive. A lot has been said about the final decision. Alleviate any type of lawsuit? We know how these things are done, sometimes abusive, to be honest, to be deprived of custody. I agree with Mr Papadimitriou that there is a great need for the prosecutors and state authorities to be vigilant. However, the current family law, the current situation in Article 1537, Mr Xanthopoulou, defines the very progressive one, which you all praise, and says that the parent is being expelled from parental care, if he was sentenced to death in prison, at least one month's time for crime, which he committed with fraud and which concerns the life, health and morality of the child. Now he wants a conviction at least one month. So what's the problem? It is clear that there are abuses, that there are parents, who should not be parents, and we should be very sensitive to this big issue. But this is another matter and another tragedy which we are trying to remedy today in a substantial way, by listening to the case law of the Council of Europe and to the best European practices, the Citizens' Counselor, the scientific organisations, an important task that some people are trying to deceive and, of course, all the effort that the Minister, Mr Tsiaras, has done. We are not here to repeat a cheetah or to opposition to the opposition. We are here to provide solutions to the great problems of the Greek people, and this bill gives solutions, it is an incision, it is a fundamental reform. And I really want, because I know the fight he has taken, to congratulate our Minister, who has resisted the pressure, has dared where some had never dared. Because this is a 20-year-old case, ladies and gentlemen, it is not today's attempt. And finally, in 2021, we are in line with what is happening in northern Europe, in Western Europe, and we are sending out a message of reconciliation and understanding to a new culture between the two parents. Lower tons, bend to the problem and give substantial solutions. Congratulations, therefore, and with great pleasure, like the majority in this House, we shall proceed to vote in favour of your legislative initiative, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mrs Christidou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the bill, I would like to make a reference, on the occasion of the day, to the Greeks of Pontou, whose uprooting and genocide form one of the darkest pages in the history of humanity and Hellenism. Only living memory can prevent such crimes being repeated, promote peaceful coexistence among peoples and justify our historical memory. So we come today to discuss a bill which, unfortunately, has managed to convince only those who reject it out of doubt. We reject it. We are sure of our choice, and we can document it. Those who support it because it is required by their party duty. Did she need change, ladies and gentlemen, family law? First of all, we consider that resources, staff with qualified staff, experts in structures were needed to enable the legal framework, which already exists, to be implemented as necessary, through means, by means, and after research. Is she doing any of this new bill? Clearly not. Is it moving in an update orbit of the 1983 progressive law? No, although you should. You have brought a bill, which is in the opposite direction, a bill which you have consulted selectively, with only some of the interested parties, by hand, overlapping, with intentional ambiguities, a bill which did not follow the recommendations of the Legislative Committee which the Minister himself set out, with some exceptions to which I shall refer below. Because it appeared that the committee subsequently disagreed with very important points in the draft legislation, which had been decided on. This is a bill that we do not know at the end of the day from whom it was written, a bill that divided so deeply concerned and society that it was considered a failure before it was even implemented. How is the new bill legally lacking in relation to the old? The existing law clearly and without compensation places the interests of the child in the centre of family law and leaves the rest to be judged on a case-by-case basis. The new bill means to intervene from above - and we insist on it - on the judge because he wants to give him a direction, even indirectly. So he artificially brings into the plan and the interests of the parents, identifying with the interests of the child, but which, of course, is not always the case. It doesn't mean that the interests of Dad or Mom are entirely identical to the interests of the child. It confuses care with diligence, introduces from the back door suspicious and unacceptable logics that previously existed, and ignores principles of gender equality. Now let's go to the famous "equality". That is a good amendment where 1510 to 1513 is equal. How can parental care before marriage be exercised jointly and equally after marriage is resolved? How is this "equal" specified? From the outset, we have said so since the first meeting of the committees. How is "equivalent" specified? Equivalent? A year old? The Minister says that 'we are not trying to put the obligation from the back door'. How is that possible? Is this a matter or is it not raised? Why is this term not deleted? He's created so many problems. Take him out. Why so insistence? Will the courts tomorrow judge on the basis of the Minister's assurances from the Step of the House? Oh, no. They will judge according to the letter of the law. So, in order to strengthen all of this, the compulsory one to three years of age with each parent, another vague and horizontal regulation, as we do not even know today what 1/3 of the year it refers to, what ages and the consequences that this provision will bring. What will have consequences for the calculations, for example, of food? These two changes remind us that the vast majority of those supporting the decision are opposed on a case-by-case basis and not horizontal legislation. Now let's go to Article 14. In the right direction, this legislative improvement. However, the maintenance of parental rights until the primary court judgment lasting two to five years in cases of domestic violence or sexual offences is contrary to the Istanbul Convention. We're not in agreement with that. You need to remove it. Everyone tells you this, as well as the opposition and important members of your party. You're not listening. The fact that the draft contract at first does not mean that it is correctly monitored by its provisions. Furthermore, we do not need to say that for parents refugees and immigrants there is no point. Also, there are no new forms of family. So, who are we talking about? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today seeks to meet the requirements of specific interest groups, but at the same time making enormous damage to the search for consensus on divorce. It is certain that it will increase the costly legal disputes, which will, over time, favour the economically strongest parent, toxic divorces and the most important suffering for children and all of this in an already difficult economic and social situation like the one we are going through. Family law is not a battlefield to choose sides, as the Ministry did. We are appalling the pain, the need for stability and communication of all parents with their children, but salmonuters do not fit into such a sensitive issue as children's lives. And that is why we insist: Structures that frame the judges public and free of charge with regular mediation, paedophiles, social workers, investigation of every case in depth, and as an optimal solution we need family courts, as family law requires specialisation. The lack of support for the bill by the Members of the New Democracy, the criticism of the anti-population complex, but also of significant, as I said before, members of the Co-Population, and also of certain amendments, leaves no room for doubt. You guys pretend you don't understand. That is why we are voting against today. We are voting against because we understand the enormous suffering of a family that breaks into two parts and must find new balance for the sake of the child or children. We are voting against why we sincerely believe that the new bill does not help to find these balances at all, instead creates conditions for even more conflicts and conflicts with the child or children in the middle. That is why we are voting against and calling on the other Members of the House to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u184	Thank you too, my colleague. Mrs Papakostas from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u185	Madam President, Minister, and Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to express my warmest congratulations, Mr Minister, to you because you have dared to bring the self-evident matter here today. I think that since the first time the New Democracy had taken over the governance of the place, it has done nothing but legislate for itself. I have heard from the previous speaker of the SYRIZA, but also from other speakers of the opposition, that there is no reason to reform family law. I've heard it several times. The same was said in the bills that we brought about education. The same argument even sounds about the work that will be coming in the next few weeks. In other words, the so-called progressive forces of this place want a forty-year-old mentality to continue to be imposed and we the so-called conservative forces, who are trying to reform them, are not the right ones, are not in the right direction. The New Democracy is doing nothing but dare to reform itself, having a pool of society next to it. An incredible argument has been heard all these days and in the committees and today by opposition speakers. And we reached the point of the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Ragus, to point out today to the Justice Minister that he wrongly legislates, that he wrongly brings this bill and that it would be enough to tell the judges what they should do? The basic principle of the Constitution, namely the separation of powers, should be circumvented? Can this thing be heard in the Greek Parliament? That, of course, can in SYRIZA's logic and attitude make sense. This has shown in the past. But in our own logic, and philosophy, this is unacceptable, it is unconstitutional and illegal. And I would like to ask a simple question: If in this House, instead of all of us, were the children, and instead of us, they would legislate, what would they vote on, what would they decide here today? Only if we consider the need for a child's soul in the enjoyment of parental care and care, but also this contribution to the formation of a balanced personality, can we see clearly why and exactly what we are legislating today. Perhaps it is one of the few times that we are in the legislative process and we must more than ever break down the ideal fortresses that surround us and approach this sensitive issue of the reform of family law now focusing on the child. It is undeniable that interpersonal relations have changed since the last legislative initiative in 1983 on the family law of our country. Sociological changes that have been followed in the already existing model of the family are already reasonable to lead to a change in the model of separation. However, having children is intertwined with parental care, which is first and foremost a duty and secondly a right to parents. The key question, therefore, is whether or not divorce is the solution of a cohabitation agreement, should change this task either by increasing it to one side or reducing it to the other. The duty as a parent and the care that supplements it cannot and must not be the privilege of either side alone. And the reason is no more than the undeniable need for children for equal parental care within a marriage or cohabitation, but also when they cease to apply. We have been here for several decades before a generation-based legislative divide - you will allow me to express - very divergently with the social reality of 2021. However, society today feels more prepared than ever so that with the strong and bold political will of the government to shape a modern model of rearing which, on the one hand, will not marginalize any parent and, on the other, will give the child the best possible distribution of time between their two parents. So this piece of legislation is a brave and truly sensitive reform as it touches the family and focuses on the interests of the child we are called upon to defend and shield. This is an initiative that will bring our country closer to the European Community by removing it from the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and complying with the requirements of our society today. The primary regulation of the bill is, therefore, the transition from the obsolete stereotype of one parent to the other exclusively responsible for the custody of the child to the most healthy model of equal work and social life. Conscientiously, both present in their lives and upbringing their children as equal parental pillars. With the new provisions, therefore, the 1/3 fighting presumption is being introduced for the communication of the child with the parent with whom he does not live. This ensures increased and balanced communication between children and both parents. So both parents can have quality communication time with their children, contributing substantially with their presence in their normal mental and spiritual development. After all, as laid down in Article 18 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, it is the right of the child to raise the child from both parents without discrimination in relation to the existence, preservation or non-legal association of parents. Mothers and fathers should be equally present in the upbringing of their child. Jointly and equally, then, parental care... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. ...the event that will contribute positively to the emotional world of the child and provide a proper basis for improving communication between parents and avoiding deserts. The aim, ladies and gentlemen, is not to support one side or the other, to find winners and losers, because in the end the best interests of the child are eliminated, which should always be our main concern. Equally important pillar of this draft law concerns the settlement of disputes between parents and the final judge. Mediation contributes, as practice shows, to creating an appropriate framework for consultation in order to resolve disputes out-of-court and in a much shorter time. It is, of course, worth mentioning here that Finland has already been applying mediation for about a century since 1929. At some point, ladies and gentlemen, we must understand - and above all we owe this to the children who are devastated through long and slow judicial procedures and conflicts - that in this case we are not talking about cold judicial decisions but about human lives. To conclude, therefore, I would like to point out that this is perhaps the only time that I did not comment on the opposition criticism and attitude or the lack of adequate proposals, perhaps because, in today's day, there are no ideals or political divisions and perhaps because we cannot sacrifice them all at the altar of politics, especially micropolitical. We are talking here about the most reformist, socially bold and conspicuous legislative step for decades now, for a bill that brought more than fifteen thousand comments in its consultation and with 80% in favour of its provisions. Clearly, unprecedented and encouraging at the same time, because it shows us that we are now in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen, the importance of voting for this law is not simply a cold one in the fact that we are in line with progressive European legislation, but also in the fact that sociological changes of these four decades are reflected with the main concern of the child, which is also the core of our society. The draft legislation is a child-centered reform which strengthens and in particular defends the child's real interests as the primary and dominant criterion for regulating their parents and children. We all know that perfect parents don't exist. There are, however, parents who know how to give their soul and their lives even for their children who love more than their own lives. And for these parents...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u186	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u187	I shall conclude, Madam President. ...he must support and serve every rule of law he respects, not only himself, but also society itself. I could not help but feel really proud today, not only with my institutional role as a Member but also as a lawmaker, as a mother, because the New Democracy Government once again dared to stand up to the circumstances, primarily in relation to society itself, which is once again at its side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u188	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr Cappatos from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today is the Memorial Day of the Greek Genocide of the Pontou, which began by the Ottoman Empire in 1916. We honor the memory of the Greeks of the Pontou, who have been lost in these difficult years with the wish that Hellenism should prosper so that it does not live again. As far as the bill is concerned, we are discussing the legislative framework for family law in our country from the distant 1983 period. The children born then today are adults about forty years old. Social changes, which have taken place since then in our society and in human relations, are universal. We read about the evolution of divorces in Greece. The economic crisis of the last decade and the consequences of the pandemic have contributed to increasing applications for divorce. Within this reality there are children of divorced couples, children who cannot work out the situation, who experience and the consequences of a divorce follow them for the whole of their lives. The current framework of exclusive custody and nutrition leads to conflicts. Parent and child relationships, very often, become part of a trade transaction or even worse in a war atmosphere with the child in the midst of dispute. Several cases come to justice and this involves the wider family of the two parents. So while children should be at the heart of the legislative framework and be protected as much as possible from the negative consequences of divorces, we see that this is not the case to the extent that it should be. Therefore, the Law of the Ministry of Justice on parental and child relations is a necessary intervention in the broader family law of our country. Social developments require the adaptation of legislation. As the Minister has said several times, this is a bill with a child-centered character. We all know in this Chamber that the bill has created a great debate in the public sphere, and that makes sense, as it concerns many of our fellow citizens who are called upon to manage a psycho-corruption situation in their everyday lives, a situation that remains psycho-corruption even when we talk about a consensual divorce. Parental alienation remains a problem for children even when they have divorced parents who maintain good relations. Of course, a bill cannot deal with each case separately. This is the responsibility of Greek justice, which determines what is best for children. However, the bill can improve the overall picture and most importantly help build a different culture in Greek society with regard to the relationship between parents and children after divorce. The bill establishes conscientiousness, which is the duty of both parents to derogate by agreement. We live in Greece where there are specific social realities. I do not think that our legislative framework should reproduce the social stereotype that the father does not have equal participation in child rearing and that this is mainly the responsibility of the mother. The right thing is to take account of today's realities in social and professional life and in the exercise of parental responsibility by both parents. The bill is based on the principle of non-discrimination between parents and mutual parental care from both parents after divorce, which applies to most European countries. The argument that conscientiousness can only function in couples who have broken up without conflicts and litigation is paradoxical. The vast majority of parents, who separate, do it because their relationships were not ideal if not already crusading. Otherwise they wouldn't split up. This logic can, in some cases, be a cause of tension in order to demand exclusive parental care. I am critical that conscientiousness can indeed create a regime of alternating residence for children. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us ask ourselves what is the greatest risk to children's psychology? The one from sharing their time in different homes or the danger from alienating children from their father or mother? We have talked recently about the value of mediation as a legal instrument in this Chamber. Beyond the legal aspect, I read the conclusions of the Hellenic Psychological Society. It is important that the legislative framework enables conscientiousness, but above all encourage counselling for parents with a view to managing conflicts and avoiding extreme reactions which affect the psychosomatic function of children. We should be talking about the need to establish a more general culture of understanding, which is contained in the law we are debating today. I listen with interest and respect to the criticisms made in particular with regard to the fightable presumption of 1/3 of the child's communication time with each parent. I think that the law is quite flexible, provided that we refer to the interests of children primarily, as the law does not generally regulate divorce. The distinction between parental care and custody is not abolished and diligence continues to be the subject of separate regulation when necessary. It also remains the possibility of recourse to justice, which can otherwise regulate parental care. The judge can protect the mother and child in special circumstances, just as it is today. It remains the possibility of justice to judge on objective criteria and by which it will decide on parental care in the interests of the child. Finally, as we speak of the involvement of justice and judges as natural persons in such sensitive issues, I could not fail to mention the provisions of the Law on the education of judges. The organisation of training programs for Nine front-line judges is a crucial element in the assimilation of the law. In this context, I would like to stress that today's legislative framework due to the past cannot sufficiently incorporate the progress made in areas of science, such as psychology, which is a decisive counselor to see what effects such a difficult process has on children. For the same reason, it is necessary to adapt justice, which has to judge the fate of families by means of decisions that have a decisive effect on children's subsequent lives. These are very complex decisions which need to be taken into account in science, such as psychology. The bill rightly provides for the training of our judges. As a lawyer who has dealt with several cases, which relate to claiming children from divorced parents, I see that the bill is of interest to the child because that is why we have an obligation and to provide for and protect as a family, as a society, as a rule of law. That is why I consider the bill to be in the right direction and I support it. I therefore believe that the inertia and delay in the reform of the legal framework for parental and child relations should not be extended. Congratulations, Minister, on the boldness of moving towards this necessary reform, which reflects the determination of the Prime Minister and the Government in the decisive areas for the benefit of society, as New Democracy has committed itself to Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Kotronis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u191	Madam President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this is the first major reform of family law thirty-eight years after Law 1329/83. Today we are discussing an important reform, which clearly has the child as its centre and not as parents certainly heard. We are discussing a bill, which aspires with this paedophile character to change the philosophy of family law and to adapt it to our time on the basis of all modern, scientific and sociological concepts on parental relations and child rearing, by establishing almost self-evident, that is, the joint exercise of parental care by both parents in case of divorce or termination of the cohabitation agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of equality between sexes, men and women and the equal treatment of their obligations and their rights in all appearances of life. I believe that the mother and father, equally and with the characteristics that nature itself has given them, must be forced, but also facilitated in the custody of children who have themselves brought them into the world, but also in both of them to take the responsibilities of this diligence. This is what the bill does, if we want to see it objectively and without focusing on hypotheses that we often do. Is it really anyone who believes that today's society can function under the conditions that existed in 1983? How many divorces did we have in '83 and how many today? How many then were working women? Was there a cohabitation agreement then? Is social information and information the same? Do the children and their upbringing have the same requirements? Ladies and gentlemen, the government could not deal with an issue that burns and yet, with a sense of duty and responsibility, dare and proceeds to the first great reform of family law, with the aim of improving the position of the child and with the aim of respecting gender equality, respect for women's rights and balanced intervention in society without extremism. This bill presents five innovations: Firstly, the joint and equal exercise of parental care after the separation of the two parents. Secondly, it integrates mediation as a precursor before divorced one ends up with the natural judge. Thirdly, it introduces the introduction of a battle criterion for 1/3 of the child's communication time with each parent, an innovation that will also help in the consultation before the judge. Fourthly, it lays down objective criteria for the judge to judge how parental care should be distributed. And fifthly, it provides for the training and adaptation of judges to this new philosophy on family law. And the fact is that the bill was widely publicized and consulted by long compiling most of the comments in consultation. Indeed, for many it was a specific field of controversy. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is certainly not a field of political controversy, and much more it cannot be a field of combat for the two sexes or a vehicle to carry each one's experiences and social experiences to Parliament. The bill modernises family law and introduces the consensual custody of children, whose main objective is to protect them. I have followed and listened carefully to the positions of all the bodies at the hearing of the Committee on Public Administration and Justice. My feeling is that, despite their individual differences in some issues, the bill covers with its philosophy the majority of the bodies. Indeed, the bill responds to what the Greek society is asking for today, and indeed to the additions made by the Minister responsible, it is further clarified what was the point of criticism, since it is now clear that it does not necessarily provide for conscientiousness or, obviously, that it was a product of social pressure. On the contrary, it meets the recommendations of the Citizens' Counselor for changing legislation and different communication between children and parents, improves our country's position, which is called on every single one by the European Court of Human Rights for similar cases and improves the whole framework for defining the conditions for children's conscientiousness. The main axis of the present is the maintenance of the common presence and participation of both parents in the upbringing of their children and after the end of the marriage or cohabitation agreement. That is to say, the principle of equality of parental responsibility and rights towards the child is safeguarded by the ultimate benefit which, as I have said before, is no more than the child itself, which will continue to enjoy the care of both of its parents. And let them understand who or whoever considers their exclusive right to custody to be wrong. In this context, the legal residence of the child is clearly determined, while the acts which the parent decides on his own and the cases in which the two parents are required to decide jointly are laid down. In order to address the difficulties that may arise during the conspiracy of this draft law, this Legislation restores the consensual communication of parents into their legitimate obligation to reach mutually acceptable solutions either on their own or with the help of an intermediary where this is deemed necessary. In the event of deadlock, as has always been done, there is always recourse to a court, which will provide an appropriate solution on a case-by-case basis. Settlement of these cases, according to this bill will be carried out by judges, and that is, as I said, one of the innovations of the bill, who will have attended special training seminars at the National School of Judges by qualified staff, including international conventions, with the most basic of the Istanbul Convention. This regulation comes as a response to another concern which has been heard, in particular that of the catastrophe so-called Istanbul Convention, which, as has been stated in Article 1, is the basis on which the provisions of the present provisions will be interpreted and applied. In addition, Article 14 refers to the criteria for assessing the misconduct of parental duties, including violent and malicious behaviour, and sets out the similar consequences including partial or total removal of parental responsibility or conscientious or diligence. In any case, the judge may deviate from the now fighting presumption of 1/3, according to the overall attitude of the parent accused of violence, resulting in the protection of the other members of the family, as is the case so far. Finally, in the context of modernization of the existing legal framework, the arrangements for intangible divorce and the assimilation of off-marriage children with those in marriage are also included in the application of the provisions on parental care after divorce or annulment of marriage. Ladies and gentlemen, given that the model of the modern Greek family has changed, calling for the increasingly equal participation of both parents in child rearing, it is our duty to preserve the role of both of these parents as well as after the end of a marriage. And it is clear that this bill offers a new basis for dialogue for divorced parents and is an important tool for judges to make the best decision in the interests of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mr Vernardakis has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Perhaps too much has been said. Let's do something different. I received a letter this morning from a citizen and I think it is of particular importance that I read to you some passages, because it refers to the bill. She's a woman who writes: "I was lucky. I have not been a victim of sexual abuse, but I have had the misfortune of being a victim of domestic violence, malicious behaviour and stable bullying in my marriage. The bill has made me resurrect nightmares, five and a half years after the heroic exit, which has brought me a long time to keep my ex-husband from approaching a certain radius and eventually the divorce that didn't give me came out some time after years automatically. I'm not the only one. "I surf the internet, I enter social media, voices, screams. I've been a child of a terrifying conflict divorce. My parents dragged me into court for years, many years. In fact, I spent my early adolescence, even my first adult years in courtrooms and judge offices. I remember my parents' divorce and I'm shaking a woman. "Please the ex-wife take the children. For a long time he blackmailed me and didn't take them for the weekend or the day-to-day that the court had appointed, and then on the lid he also sued me to block communication." It is not the only trembling in the possibility of the law being passed - monster, mothers who are victims of domestic violence, mothers whose fathers do not give any food for their child, who continue to rally the ex-wife in sadism, in every small crack and scarlet that is created in communication for the child or child. They are in front of the nightmareic prospect that the malicious father and ex-husband can, while not paying a diet, pull them for a flea fuck in the courts - as happened to me - continue to abuse them with familiar tactics bullying, after putting a foot back in, from the back door to control her life. The diet for the child in the eternal conscientiousness will of course not be the ones who escaped anyway, the same people who have money to post a capital with expensive ads and the connections so that the STECF can host these posters free of charge, will henceforth escape the diet with the bogey of the law. That is why it is so lobbying from the pound of active fathers, with a ghost profile, as the former Minister and MP of the New Democracy, Mrs Marietta Giannakou, suddenly stirring up and the government comes to make them all the money, introducing the mandatory multiple direct contacts and dealings of parents, even in cases of domestic violence contrary to the provisions of the Istanbul Convention? And then it's Erdogan's fault? And all this without even providing for the establishment of family courts which have been legislated since 1996'? These and many more in a letter that is shocking. And I think, Minister, that you should address this world. This world you have to worry about not persuading him. It's this world that's worried and it's a lot of people, it's a real world. A lot has been said, as I said at the beginning of my speech, about this bill. I won't mention it. I will only make two small remarks. You're insisting that your bill is a child center. Minister, how interested you are for children is the attitude you have made in the institution "The House of the Child", a structured and painful work that has been undertaken and carried out by experts, psychologists, teachers, lawyers, agents of the Ministry of Justice, prosecutors, with ready buildings, ready staff, ready institutional framework. You've received it. I asked you a timely question and you said that yes, we agree and we go ahead. It's been two years, and all you've done is break it down. All you've accomplished is re-enter direct assignments for issues that have been resolved. And we managed that juveniles, the victims of malicious behaviour, had a friendly space in the GDR, that the police and this duty should take over. You managed to make the police a superior force from all over the modern legal and scientific world. I don't know if you've understood it, but you've made every concept of legal liberalism and every sense of the seriousness of a modern state. A second point is very important. There is a basic question that goes wrong. Who legislates in this country? The House, parties, MPs, representative social organizations or organised economic centres, financing campaigns for their own benefit? The women's and feminist organizations, the positions of approved law, the plenary session of lawyers, the Citizens' Counselor, Amnesty International, the full houses of legal associations...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u194	The Citizen's Counselor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u195	The Citizens' Counsel, of course, as a whole. You'll answer. Members of your party have also pointed this out to you. Something serious is going on so everyone doesn't agree with your law. And because family law is a very fair social relationship, which is mature to regulation, and that is why they are dressed or dressed with a very practical social consensus, it raises a great deal of question as to how you choose to legislate. Who legislates in this country, according to the old question 'who governs this country?' That is the question, which today is happening in Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u196	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. The floor now is held by Deputy Minister Kotsira for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the beginning, I would like to begin by referring to the Memorial Day of two years since the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus, a day of atrocity, a day of drama for these people. The Greek Parliament has honoured this day, and we must no doubt all sacrificing ourselves on this day to remember the atrocity that took place a hundred years ago and to do everything in order to internationalize this issue, in order for there really to be a historic vindication of this day and of the people who were lost and expelled at that time. Secondly, with reference to the general protection of minors and the policies of the Government, Mr Vernardakis mentioned the 'Home of the Child'. I inform you, Mr. Vernardakis, that the next few days will be delivered and the "Home of the Child" of Athens will be ready for operation. I have to say that we have made a huge effort in the Ministry of Justice to remove administrative, technical and legal malfunctions in a problematic legal framework which, incidentally, will require changes. But we must do everything in the existing framework so that we can operate the "Home of the Child". I would also like to inform you that there is a national action plan under way on the rights of the child. Our country is actively participating in the Council of Europe on the creation of child rights policy 2022-2027, thus creating a framework for an integrated policy of participation of the Ministry in relation to the rights of the child. Therefore, because our country in 2019, according to the European Union's Scoreboard, was last, in friendly justice in children, it is right to speak with projects and not to speak theoretically about what you could have solved and unfortunately you did not do so. I now come to what we do with today's bill brought by the Ministry of Justice. We are indeed addressing and dealing with a sensitive issue, a matter which concerns relations between parents and children, relationships that are sensitive and fragile, concerning the relationship between the child and his parents, especially after the marriage has been resolved, and since his parents decide that they will not be together in life. With this, then, not only do we abolish rights, but on the contrary we strengthen existing tools and give parents and judges new tools so that they can resolve these very sensitive issues. We are also modernising the scope of family law after thirty-eight years, a need which we have all recognised in the committees and in the debate in plenary. In addition, we recognised that the '83 legal framework was indeed innovative for his time and solved problems. However, thirty-eight years later, with the changes that have taken place both in society and in human relations, but also in the very nature and form of the family, they obviously needed changes. And these changes have as their sole guide the interest of the child, as it is ensured by both the relationship and the communication and by the physical presence of both parents in his upbringing, in his life, in his everyday life. It is indeed a difficult and complex equation and the Ministry of Justice took an initiative which is a product of discussion and discussion with the scientific community and many pay on many issues, which were made by public consultation and after the Minister. And because I listen to a one-thematic, let me express the expression, perception of the institutions and the positions of the institutions, you know it is important that dialogue is taking place. But it is wrong to know things that have not been said in order to create impressions. Since the Citizens' Counsel has already been mentioned, I would like to say that neither we are the Counsellor of Citizens, nor do we intend to work on his position. But his position was much more proactive in our own legislative initiative. He was openly talking about much more compulsory arrangements than the measured, reasonable and innovative step we are taking. The Social Society also raised specific issues which were in favour of conscientiousness. As far as Parliament's Scientific Service is concerned, we obviously take it into account. In fact, the Minister has already mentioned significant technical changes in the legislative framework, which take this part into account. And because I heard you talk about tricks, I would remind you that the issue that was from the main points of criticism, namely the question of final judicial decision on parental care, the Scientific Service refers to a legislative improvement. In particular, it states that ‘for domestic violence’ should be replaced as follows: ‘For the offences provided for in Law 3500/2006 and the Criminal Code’, the three specific articles. It does not refer to the fact that the existence of a definitive decision violates some super-legislative provision in order to talk about a 'bone' issue which has been wrongly criticised. In fact, I would like to insist on that, and I have said so to the committees. Badly and erroneously, we are trying to go through that there is supposedly an open window for malicious parents. Because as far as communication is concerned, which is the major, the first level of relationship between the child and the parent who is abused, is taken away from communication without a judicial decision. There is no such provision in the legislative framework. As Mr Ploris quite rightly said, as far as the provision of parental care and misconduct are concerned, there is no judicial decision in the existing context. There is nothing for domestic violence. Here, therefore, an explicit provision is in place that ensures and specifically sets out a framework of rules available to the judge and will obviously assess each case separately with the criteria, which the law gives him and in the direction that the legislative framework gives him. The legislator is not uncomfortable. He cannot legislate unrelentingly in the face of a painful reality. Do you also know what the draft law says on the matter of communication and the 1/3 presumption that was mentioned and which we said is combatable and that it is a tool at the disposal of the judge, who can use and evaluate each case separately? I have said that to the committee too, but I see that there is no mention today of anyone in this. He says: "In any case, if the daily life of the child is not disrupted." So, for all the questions of extreme cases raised, like what happens if one parent stays here, and the other one stays five hundred kilometers away or what happens if one parent has the ‘alpha’ behavior and the other has the ‘omega’ behaviour, a safety test is in place to prevent the daily life of the child. It also says that the court may order all appropriate means, in particular the preparation of a thorough report of social workers, psychiatrists or psychologists. These are security differences, which the legislator puts at the disposal of the judge, in order to assess and have tools in his hands to judge each case separately. It is therefore important to set a framework, set guidelines and give modern and modern tools that will help both the Ombudsman and the parents, but also the judge in case a sensitive case arrives in court and is called upon to resolve it. All this will be in his hands. The current regime has reached a limit and we must move forward. And because I realise that the differences, which exist, are 'founded' many times in individual legal provisions of the existing regime and especially in legal situations, I would like to tell you that the existing legal framework is much more general. It is a framework in which if misuse occurs, it can lead to one-sided data. We are putting in a framework that has direction, has substance, has background, gives the judge the tools and obviously does not substitute him. And I wonder how that sounded and how it got into the dialogue. The Association of Judges and Prosecutors, the representative of the National School of Judges, said so itself. And the plenary session of the lawyers was in favour of reforming the legal framework. So we all agree on that. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Madam President, I shall end. If you have kindness, I'd like two more minutes. As far as the interests of the child, which is mentioned and runs all the international texts, and the International Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union are concerned, it is obviously linked to the communication and presence of parents in their everyday life and to their upbringing. For the reference to a vague legal concept that we supposedly devise, I would remind you that there is the interest of the child, and indeed, the existence of the legislator in this function has also been recognised by Arion Ice in its decision in 2019, number 1016/2019, which expressly refers to the role of the legislator in including the criteria that can be assessed. I'm ending up with this. I had enough to say, but I don't want to abuse time. However, I wanted to clarify this issue of abuse because I think that a distorted interpretation is being made and it is a bad idea for the public. Because this draft law abolishes all the "windows" such incidents in a explicit manner. I say it again, communication doesn't even need a decision. The judge can interrupt it. In the case of parental care, there is one of the reasons for the final decision. The Minister of State for the change to the mediation issue said that there would indeed be an explicit exception to cases involving domestic violence. So they close all the windows of a very sensitive issue. And because there is a debate that the legislator has a role to play with regard to the judge and to jurisprudence, it has an important role to play, ladies and gentlemen. He can't stay unfaithful. Creates frame, gives a direction, cultivates a culture, works pedagogically. And this pedagogical role is a key element of this cooperation, which all the powers have in order to be able to have the best real effect. For this part, I will testify in the Minutes, since the scientific community and dialogue it has, a very interesting article that I read in the “NEA” on 24 March 2021, a chosen professor of the Law School of Athens, Antonis Karabatzou, who expressly states: “The pedagogical - guiding function that can achieve such selection rules is not insignificant. They introduce a legislative standard which is a strong starting point for the parties concerned or the courts, from which, however, they may become a party’. It is the quintusia, for me, of this piece of legislation and culture that cultivates both parents and the Ombudsman and the judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u198	He's not a professor of family law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u199	It's civil law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u200	Engaging law teaches.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u201	Mrs. Giannakopoulou, it's a professor of law school. I didn't refer to family law. I referred to an article which, in my view, is important. The scientific opinion...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u202	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u203	I don't understand why this annoyance. I don't want to think about other things. I don't understand the discomfort. Because we talked about the dialogue between the scientific community, which was, in fact, broad and public, and was, in the House, also outside the House, I am tabling an article which I think is worth evaluating. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Justice, George Kotsire, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I conclude by considering that this bill has a child's focus, it has the child's interest at its heart, it takes a step in the right direction, it takes a measure, it makes sense, it really reform and it gives room for the judge so that he can assess and create another framework. And I think it would be good and right not to hide behind individual points of view and to propose the major, the interests of the child, the need to change the legislative framework after thirty-eight years and to support it, to vote for it, because it will be an important part of the change in family law after so many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Now Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor from New Democracy. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, precisely because this is a very serious matter, but not to go far beyond the limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u205	Madam President, I asked Mrs Alexopoulou to precede.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u206	No problem. So Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, from the outset I would like to emphasise what I have said to the committee that we are engaged in and presented with different opinions and that there are different scientific opinions in fact, with a solution to a problem since this has been caused and increased. And I would point out again that the state has had to act as a precaution with the necessary advisory structures and services for the family and the child, in order to stop the great increase in the divisions that exist, but also the problems associated with them, especially in cases where there are conflicting situations. But let's start over. As a movement for change we have come to the debate on the draft legislation on changes to family law, first of all at the expense of the great progressive reform in 1983, but also at the same time at the same time at the same time at the same time as the fact that there is no doubt a problem of implementation, there is a negative reality because of an established judicial practice, which often leads to unilateral decisions. The result clearly shows that many fathers are wronged, as are many mothers in other cases and, most importantly, there is no monitoring mechanism. But it is not today to say whether we are with the views of fathers or mothers, grandparents and grandparents, the personal experiences and dramas of which are there, not just knowing, but we recognise and respect absolutely. The challenge is not to turn the child into apples of the sweat into a box bag, but to protect it and ensure its best future. I believe that the whole House agrees with this. This is what the state should be helping with justice and science, but both parents, with rules and decisions of the courts if there is no agreement and successful mediation. Unfortunately, the 1996 reform for the chambers of family courts was not implemented by the justice to which it was assigned. The bill could be a good opportunity for modernising family law provisions and for improvements in accordance with the new social conditions to address the real problem that we say exists. But why should we not have discussed the final solution that is no more than the family courts? The bill, as it comes, does not solve the problem, as you at least claim. It speaks of 'equivalent' and at the same time legislates one third. I told you in committee too: why not 40% or why not 50-50? While you set up a legislative committee, you have retrospectively amended some provisions without going back to committee and receiving the final legal treatment of the committee itself. The Citizens' Counselor, who is in the direction of the need for change, expressed clear and useful proposals. It has not been heard in too many of them. Many experts argue that the proposed provisions of the bill violate international conventions and regulations, such as the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, No 2101/1992, the European Directive on the Rights of Victims of Victims of Violence and the Istanbul Convention. The International Convention on the Rights of the Child seeks to ensure both parental responsibility for the upbringing and personal relations and the direct contact of the child with the two parents. Obligation on our country under International and Union law is to safeguard the law and to safeguard in practice the interests of the child and, secondly, the new family life of its parents. In the Council of Europe, the bill received negative comments on specific issues that it raises. And how could it not be negative when there are issues relating to domestic violence and when will one parent have the right or not to perform the duties depending on whether the decision is final or final? I think it is clear from the remarks, but even from the controversy that exists - which you do not deny as a government that there is a divisive, at best, confrontation over the bill - that it is going wrong. He attempts to deal with problems complexly, socially in a quantitative way, with a pre-cedure mechanism. We believe in another concept of resolving the problem, which will lead us out of the deadlock. We've already testified her. We submitted it to you in committee beforehand, and we also had it in our 2019 election programme. Our position is that parental care must be exercised jointly. This is also provided for by the existing law, and we need to see how it is ensured. A basic and unnegotiable priority must be the interest of the child and politicians, justice, scientists, parents must serve it. Prevention, education policies, parents' schools, family planning structures and services, support and advisory families in each municipality. Each couple must have them next to him before he decides to give birth, but also before he decides to break up. We believe in the role of real mediation and special scientists. And, of course, the family court must be a last resort to a fair solution. We therefore need a new, progressive reform aimed at creating family courts, supported by special scientific staff, social workers, psychiatrists and psychologists. The creation of the family courts, you say, is difficult and goes away. In this sense some of the parents say, "Hey, but we now want a solution." Yes, they can now, directly, at the appeal level - start at the appeal level - chambers of family courts by law and not be in the power of justice, as the 1996 law left it. This will give the solution on its own, because they will know in advance that there will be no final decision hopefully by some and on whatever side and will assist the mediation effort if they do not agree at the outset and on their own. It overthrows the negative practice that exists today. I conclude by saying that our positions are not dogmatic. Our proposals have made it clear that, apart from our clear position that the bill does not solve the problem, we are not a priori opposed to any positive provision - and for this bill - as has been said by some. The positive provisions will be voted on, but the provisions that complicate the problem and lead to new deadlocks will obviously not be voted on by us. Our proposal is alive, is valid and we can implement it to be next to the child and not far or far from him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u208	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, let me first honour in my turn the Step of the Greek Parliament, the hundreds of thousands of Greeks who were hunted and slaughtered for their Christian faith and their Greek blood. We don't forget. We are keeping the story of uprooting alive and will fight with every appropriate means to internationalise the insurmountable tragedy. Many countries have already recognised this crime either by decision or by official references. It is time to make use of the international context and to highlight our holocaust to the entire international community. I am immediately going, Madam President, to my speech, starting with this thought: it is not possible for women in the 21st century to maintain the dilemma of whether we are going to work, whether we are going to have a career or whether we are going to have a family. Whether within or outside marriage, the modern woman has - and this must be guaranteed by the state - the right to work and social life and we are not allowed to confirm these stereotypes. Of course, it is a question of being in marriage, within a normal and loving partnership. But when this is not possible, the end of the world does not come. It's not over either Mother's life, father's life, and certainly not children's. We simply need to ensure a modern approach in the context of responsible understanding and civilized behaviour, so that both continue their social, family and working life always and above all, with the main concern of the interests and future of the children. That is why I would like to congratulate you, Minister, on the legislative initiative, which, in the context of gender equality, recognises the co-responsibility of the two parents in the care of their children, while ensuring that their differences and problems do not become their own problems. It is a matter of culture and I am sure that the young Greeks and the new Greek women are already facing this issue with enormous maturity. Ladies and gentlemen, the family is, in fact, the foundation of every culture and every human society, it is the place in which we are growing up and developing, the refuge in which our psychic, personality and characters are shaped, it is the thermospheric nuisance that is lurking us until the time we rely on our own supplies to deal with the world. It is a living organization that is evolving and reformed to meet the challenges of every age and age. Many have changed in recent years in the structure and functioning of the Greek family. The roles have changed and adapted to the requirements of modern life. The mother works and does not always stay at home, but the modern father also has an active involvement in the daily care of children and households. Together they try to find the new balance between work and family obligations, which is not always easy. Of course, it is ideal for there to be two parents working in harmony, united and loved under the same roof. But that seems to be becoming more and more difficult and reflected in numbers and statistics which we cannot simply ignore. In modern societies, as in our country, divorces, unfortunately, are growing, people are divided more easily, while in the middle of all of these are children. These children must be protected. We have to give these children the opportunity to always have both parents. It is therefore necessary, almost forty years since the last reform of our institutional framework, to adapt to keep pace with the new data and to deal with a different social reality. This bill wants to give all those tools, which will allow two people, who cannot or do not want to be together, to care in the best possible way for their children and especially to make the transition from cohabitation to separation as painless as possible. At the same time, it gives every parent the right to maintain his communication and relationship with the child. The two parents are just as important and valuable and do not belong here to winners and losers. However, because, even in this sensitive and essential piece of legislation, deliberate misinterpretation of provisions and micro-policy go a long way before we say what this draft law regulates, I think it is worthwhile to say what it does not regulate. This draft law, therefore, does not regulate parental differences, does not address both the requirements or objections of a divorce, nor does it deal with nutritional issues, does not impose on parents the treatment of custody, nor does it remove their right to decide on the best management scenario themselves and, of course, does not remove the right to appeal to a court on grounds that each parent can judge sufficient. There is, therefore, no existing right to be waived. On the other hand, provisions are laid down to strengthen them. We harmonise our legislation both with modern reality and with the spirit of international conventions, but also with the good practices of all the advanced countries of the world and our partners in the European Union. The child’s interest, as all modern studies say, is his communication and upbringing by both parents, who love it even when they have decided to live separately. After the separation both parents have reason and role, rights and obligations. But that was practically always the case. The bill introduces this, the joint exercise of parental responsibility by both parents, who have a duty and a right to custody of the child, supervision, education, upbringing, as well as management of his property and representation in each case. For all the crucial issues about his life and future, both parents have a reason. It also introduces mediation as a means of resolving disputes instead of the psycho-corruption of a judicial path, since parents cannot regulate their own issues. The ultimate objective of this initiative is to stop cohabitation as smooth and calm as possible for the benefit of the child. There is a minimum basis for the child’s time of communication with the parent with whom it does not reside in order to ensure adequate communication but also quality, substantial child’s time with both parents. Finally, the bill helps the work of justice by introducing objective criteria for the misuse of parental care. It is of course always in the judge's judge's judgment to take into account other criteria for deciding, but their list sets out a clear basis for reference and removes any margin of misinterpretation. In addition, training programs are being prepared at the National School of Judges so that the judges are fully familiar with the new framework and assimilate the new philosophy that this promotes. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on a bill which comes into our hands after exhausting consultation, with an unprecedented number of comments and interventions by individuals and bodies, of which ultimately has the consent of a vast part of Greek society. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Ministry's leadership handle a sensitive and thorny issue with its determination, attention and value, reforming an institutional framework that is beyond reality itself. We are giving a way out on a major issue that is agitating our society and, in particular, the thousands of children who need to suffer the trivialisation of a troublesome divorce of their parents and many women who otherwise had imagined their lives and have otherwise been brought to them by fate. When there are in the middle of children there is no room to choose camp, there is only room for love, care and understanding about their proper upbringing. As a Member of Parliament, as a woman, I invite you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Lippe has the floor now from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the day of memory today, a hundred and two years from the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou. Maintaining historical memory is our duty. The struggle for the international recognition of Genocide continues. Forty-eight years have passed since the ‘83 that the Urban Code had last reformed in the family relations. In this time it has changed significantly both the active role of parents who play in the lives of their children and the way we approach child rearing as a society. The concept of empathy is now dominated and on this basis we seek to raise children with emphasis on their emotional balance, so that they develop into adults who will be interested in their fellow man. The bill therefore has the interest of the child alone, as is required by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Intermediation has not yet gained ground in Greece against the judiciary. The Greeks show confidence - and rightly so - in justice. But the effort made in today's bill is to consolidate mediation as a quicker, more flexible and less costly process, from which both sides are won, especially children. The bill clearly stipulates that parental care is exercised jointly and equally by both parents after the marriage has been settled or the cohabitation agreement has been cancelled. The arrangement extends to children who were born out of marriage when they are recognized by their father. Parental care is a broad concept. It shall include the custody of the person of the child, the administration of his or her property and his or her representation in any case, act or trial. Of course, there is still the possibility that only one parent will exercise custody of the child if both sides decide it or the court decides it to be the best solution for the child. Insert for the first time a fighting presumption in relation to the child's minimum communication time, set out in 1/3 of the total time. In the vast majority of judicial decisions this is happening anyway, i.e. on the basis of the case-law, or about this is the time for communication, which is usually prejudicial to the parent with whom the child does not stay firmly. Scientific research demonstrates how important a child’s mentality plays its contact and communication with both parents. The hearing of the committees was thoroughly analysed by specialist psychologists that children benefit greatly when they spend at least 35% of their time with each parent. In order to avoid any misinterpretation the presumption is combatable, i.e. it is solely up to the judge of the natural court to determine the time of communication, who may be less than 1/3 or more. It shall not be bound or substituted for its key role. Family relationships can't get into a mold. They must also be judged on a case-by-case basis, as defined by the European Commission and the international texts. Today's bill fully respects this need, because every child is unique and every family relationship is different. For the first time objective criteria, which make the exercise of parental care bad, are described as indicative and not restrictive cases, such as the responsible non-compliance with judicial decisions, the blockage of communication between the child and the parent who does not usually live, but also vice versa, the parent's indifference to communicate with his child, the unjustified refusal of the parent to pay a diet, the final judicial decision condemning the parent for domestic violence or crimes against sexual freedom. The provision is a guideline for judges and at the same time a list that is deterrent to parents. Again, cases are indicative. It is for the judge to judge whether, for example, someone is inappropriate to communicate with his child because he has been prosecuted against him but has not yet been convicted of domestic violence. Finally, one of the most important innovations in the bill is the provision for court training programs within the National School of Judges. In some respects, there is a consistent view that family courts should be founded in Greece. In fact, the continuing training of judges and prosecutors is important. In fact, the current provisions stipulate that judges who are judging cases relating to parental/child relations have previously participated in specific training courses in order to foster the spirit of the new provisions. Overall, the public debate on the role of both parents following the divorce and the time that each parent must have with his child has triggered disagreements and constructive proposals. Moreover, the great resonance of the draft law in society also emerges from a large participation in the consultation process with about fifteen thousand comments. Today's bill does not change the legislative framework in the interests of one or the other, since this is not the role of the legislator. It highlights the protection of children and adapts the legal framework to the modern needs of society. This is a courageous reform, Minister. The new provisions reflect the undeniable need for all of us to change attitudes: society, parents, judges. It will take time until we realize that it is not for the benefit of the child that it is alienating it from a parent or for the refusal to pay food or for constant legal disputes on any simple matter. We have a duty as a society to take care of our children. Besides, children always reflect the kind of care they take. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u212	Now Mrs. Kafantari has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but mention the Memorandum of Remembrance of the Greek Pontius. We honor their sacrifice. We state that historical memory must be maintained, the historical truth to emerge and always historical memory is a force for peoples and at a global level not to allow ethnic cleansing and, of course, never refugee. I now come to the draft law we are discussing. Mr President, you have brought in another bill which, apart from being a product of poor legislation, proves at the same time, Minister, and a statute of the government. We have lived here statements from Members of the New Democracy that, in any case, this bill was accepted by institutions. We have heard a New Democracy Member speak that we are in a Matriarchal Society. We've heard a lot of things here. How far out of reality are you like a New Democracy, as a government? In what world do you really live when you let such things sound? And how else do we not describe this regimental concept of this government in the fact that the government has set up a committee of law-abiding lawyers and scientists whose conclusion has not been taken into account in this draft law? The government did not have any real dialogue with the relevant bodies. She didn't see the women's organizations. The government has not devoured the reactions created in society with this bill, the reactions that exist in the scientific world related to family law, the paedophile corporation I mention, for example - the reactions to the political world, the opposition as a whole, the parties and of course the reactions that exist within the party itself. These really show, despite the individual amendments - some of which, like this 'equivalent' - which we call 'equivalent' and if that does not happen to be eliminated - that you are determined to move forward. You have not taken into account the proposals and objections raised here in Parliament at the second sitting - the hearing of extra-parliamentary bodies. Of course you are bringing a bill - and this is the very important one - into the health crisis, the pandemic that you are going through a series of things on the occasion of this pandemic, in unprecedented circumstances of the Parliament, the market has been opened up, the various activities and the Parliament is working as it still works on a highly sensitive issue, which has to do with the child. But I will dwell on one thing in particular, in the absence of the Minister of the State Secretary for the Family, who you have created as a new government of the New Democracy State Secretary for the Family. Where's the State Secretary? He did not participate, he did not hear, he did not accept women's organisations to discuss. Because - it says - the child, as the communication of the workers' association says at the General Secretariat, is not about the responsibility of the Ministry. I read that he also made a statement that the bill is relevant, it is not contrary to the Istanbul Convention. When it is stated that the parental rights of offenders of domestic violence or sexual crime may cease, be limited after a primary court judgment condemning them, Greece's obligation not to jeopardise the rights and safety of those who have suffered domestic violence and children who face a malicious environment. It is contrary to the Istanbul Convention, of course, to the rights of the child. So it seems that you are determined to go ahead. Legislation for a 3%. Many colleagues from the opposition not only from SYRIZA said there are statistics. And I repeat, 86% of divorces are consensual, only 14% of the remaining 14% continue after the initial stage of the interim order and the interim measures, and exercises main proceedings and only 3% at the court of appeal. But all this raises serious questions why you are doing so. Because no one supports all of us that there are no problems in implementing existing family law, which for its time has been innovative and very important. There are problems between divorced parents in connection with communication and contact with children. So let us solve these problems that life has proved, but not by bringing in a divisive bill, which creates conflicts within society. It has been spent too much money and we have said so in the first committee. I was placed on it. And all that raises questions. It is a bill that violates the Istanbul Convention and in general the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. From a child-centered family law, from a child-centered perspective and a view of what you bring to the logic of the genome. There are problems, as I said before, with the 1983 family law, which was a pioneer for his time and a product of consultation that was important with the relevant scientific and legal bodies. So apply, since there are issues, some support structures, family social workers, child psychologists. Law 2447/1996 requires a number of things, including family courts. Show that you are actually working in favour of the interests of the child and not in favour of a minority view in society. With this law - and I close, Madam President - instead of solving real issues, you create more that we will find in front of us. I'm talking about society as a whole. And I'm very afraid that the victim will be the child once again. And I don't think any of us want that. Well, accept some suggestions not only of counterpopulation, but of the relevant scientific bodies, of our country's legal world. And if you don't accept them, please withdraw it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u214	Now Mrs Villali has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Madam President. Today's Memorial of the Mode Genocide I would also like to add my voice to the constant effort for their justice. We don't forget. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to place ourselves in the Greek Parliament's plenary for a very important bill. Because every bill, which regulates people's interpersonal relations, requires methodical documentation and creative approach. But especially when a bill deals with the sensitive issue of parental responsibility towards children then the regulatory framework becomes vital. And yes, we have before us a bold bill that comes to incorporate, after forty years, the present social reality, the dynamic change of social roles in modern Greek society, but above all the new scientific data that accompanies the development of family law internationally. Ladies and gentlemen, particularly the Officerial Representation, and not only, we could also, following the distorting example of a conservative policy of not changing anything, subjecting to the well-known 'we have thought about it, but did not have time' in order to expect the immorality to offer us the mature fruit of social acceptance. But our government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis do not choose this dead end. We have received a clear mandate to reform the country at all levels so that we can take advantage of the enormous development potential that our country has for the benefit of all citizens. We have this mandate, this mandate we are observing and we will continue to observe it to the full. Greece is changing and of course it is transformed socially. The task of each favoured state is to intervene effectively and to reward social dynamics in the most positive direction. A similar institutional option can only include the care of our state towards children, which will ensure that there is a multi-faceted framework based on modern scientific evidence, which will enable children to grow emotionally, to grow cognitively, to develop in their behaviour in a way that is beneficial. It is, of course, a framework that should be operational for children whose parents decide to separate. And here, ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about a single or small social event. We are talking about a well-established social reality. Each thousand inhabitants account for about five marriages, but also two divorces. The way in which parental responsibility is exercised or if you want parental responsibility is therefore a key point both for the child's psychosomatic development and, indirectly, for the interpersonal relationship of former spouses, who remain forever. The bill rightly adopts the modern scientific data of literature in various areas of scientific research, while transmitting a strong educational message that crosses the entire Greek society horizontally. It is beneficial for the child to create close and beneficial contact with both parents. The creation of a substantial relationship with both parents in both qualitative and quantitative terms is necessary for the existence of primary emotional links to the integrated development of his or her personality. Modern research has shown that when parental care is jointly conducted there is a documented relationship with the positive cognitive development of the child and its subsequent functionality in the field of interpersonal relations, it is more easily integrated into the social environment, as well as cognitively developed. Such surveys also show significantly lower stress levels and even in the field of physical health, the difference is greater in the interests of common parental care. These are the results of scientific research that are not disputed. Finally, and this scientific find has found it particularly interesting because the opposite was heard in the Chamber by many colleagues, it is noted that the levels of intensity between the two parents are falling considerably in the exercise of common parental responsibility. Therefore, the strategic objective that comes out when we try to document scientifically what actually means beneficial to children in a dominant paedophile approach is a common admissibility. This bill also respects this principle, which arises from scientific research, while offering, if you like, the necessary strategic direction in the approach of this issue by ensuring Greek justice in the application of the regulatory framework, of course by taking every time the uniqueness and individuality of each case. Ladies and gentlemen, from the conclusion of how we can serve the best interests of children, another basic principle of the draft law arises indirectly, which concerns how the two parents should operate even after their marriage has ceased. And there the message is clear as is the rewarding framework for its strengthening. The contents of the message include the concept of the consent, understanding and cooperation of parents for the best and multifaceted service of the needs of the child. While the way of mediation is now foreseen to find optimal solutions for the benefit of children without recourse to the courts. In this respect, I believe that the clear regulatory definition for the misuse of parental care, since the absence of grey zones in the legislative framework knows that it is dissuasively working for each of the actors, who are trying to hide behind legislative ambiguities. Each parent will assume the consequences of his actions. Ladies and gentlemen, we now know that the exercise of parental care against children is a key factor in the development of their adult life, and that individual responsibility lies with us, but also with the enormous responsibility of always pursuing the best way to care for them. But today science offers us the basic axes to achieve this prestigious goal despite the fact that there is no golden recipe cut and sewn into everyone's measures. And the bill moves in this right direction by emitting the right messages toward Greek society. But it remains my personal conviction, and also my political pursuit, and I am ending with this, Madam President, that today more than ever we need to create an effective regulatory framework, which will start and cultivate the concept of good parental education for all citizens who want to become parents. This step must be daring for future generations to offer even more colorful flowers in our beautiful homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u216	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr Manolakos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Madam President. You will allow me to join my voice with the other colleagues for today's Memorial Day of the Pontian Genocide. The recognition of genocide by Turkey is the least possible apologies for their three hundred and three thousand victims. We new Greeks will never forget. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, almost forty years since the previous major legislative intervention, our government has been sensitive and responsible for daring changes in our family law and brings it closer to modern reality in the interests of thousands of parents and children who have so far been tortured by uncertain and obsolete provisions. It is commonly accepted that gender relations are now very different, with women in a much better situation than in the past, but society has evolved and required the regulation to be adapted. The government is therefore right to respond to a social expectation and a legal necessity. Ladies and gentlemen, in any division, parents must not forget that even if they cease to be spouses or comrades, they always remain parents and the interests of children, it requires that the most appropriate conditions be ensured for the protection of psychism and the smooth development of their personality. This bill is intended to provide a solution in all cases, especially where parents fail to regulate their own relationship with their children. But how does he try to do that? With important innovations, with the completion of gaps and the clarification of issues, which have often had a judicial settlement and, above all, the interests of children, so that, on the one hand, understanding and consensual climate between parents can be facilitated and, on the other, on the other hand, where tense relationships do not favour finding consensus solutions to provide an excellent tool for the natural judge, who will be asked to give the right solution. I have the opinion that the bill in its greatest part achieves it, in particular, on the very positive aspects of the legal framework, Minister, is the mediation institution, which is also being exploited in family law by encouraging the consensual finding of a suitable solution and preventing unnecessary refuge in the court. And the provision of special training and training programmes for judges, who will be called upon to judge family differences, I believe that this is the first step in the direction of family courts, which should be the next major part in our family law and the establishment of objective criteria for the misuse or abuse of parental care. In the case of domestic violence, crimes against sexual freedom and economic exploitation of sexual life, I feel, Minister, that in order to ensure the protection of children, there should be even greater awareness of the fact that parental care and the deprivation of the right of communication are not required because it may be a long time to come to trial, but that the parent's final referral to trial is sufficient. On the other hand, Minister, let me tell you that there are two points, which are of particular concern to me and which may lead to misinterpretations, as expressed in the bill, which have been mentioned by a number of my fellow citizens in Piraeus and particularly well-known lawyers. First, Article 7 stipulates that the joint exercise of parental care continues after parental separation. It thus clears up a thorny issue, which, under current law, created references for judicial disputes, wisely following the practice of case law for many years. However, I believe that parental care should be exercised jointly. The same exercise provided for by the law, despite the good intentions of the authors of the bill, I fear that he will open the door to misinterpretations and misunderstandings, which can lead to the idea that the compulsory alternating residence of the child and the compulsory equivalent residence to both parents is thus introduced, in view of the particular circumstances of each individual case. Secondly, Article 13 provides for a fighting presumption of 1/3 of the total minimum communication time with the natural presence of the parent with whom the child does not reside. The question arises - at least I did not see it in the bill - of what total year. The day, the week, the free time? I think it would be more appropriate for the judge to eliminate the fightable presumption of minimum time and, in the event of disagreement, for the judge to give the solution freely, with the provision of broader communication as far as possible and taking into account the specificities of each case. I would ask you, Minister, to see them again. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I think that this bill generally gives solutions, changing an outdated legal framework, and offering an excellent tool to the judge for the better administration of justice. The debate that has been taking place so far on this bill since this morning has shown something extremely important. What's that? That in our party, New Democracy, founded by the late Constantine Karamanlis, we can disagree, we can have different opinions and express them in a spirit of democratic and consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u218	And I, Mr. Comrade, thank you. Mrs Pulou from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to pay tribute to the memory of the hundreds of thousands of victims of the Pontian Genocide. It is our duty and duty to honor the memory of the Greek population from Pontus, who was violently rooted from his place. We must constantly fight against barbarism and all crimes against humanity until the final vindication and recognition of historical truth. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a bill concerning the whole society and its core, the family, and I wonder whether there is even one in the Greek Parliament that has no knowledge and relevant experience. However, it seems once again that the Government ignores the consultation, the positions of actors, civil society organisations, the scientific community, the previous relevant processes, the Scientific Service of the Parliament. What's that for? To satisfy any interests and requirements of particular pressure groups? The pretext of legislating, the government's insistence not to consult effectively and consensually leads us to this question, but also to the fact that it is one of its most controversial and divisive bills. He managed to cultivate conditions of extreme polarization in society and within every family concerned. He set up falsified camps of supposed reformers and supposedly backwards and forces citizens to choose sides. Mr President-in-Office, you have achieved the impossible to divide not only society but also the government itself and your own party. How else can we explain the characteristic absence of the State Secretary for Labour and the Secretary-General responsible for family and gender equality from the relevant preparation of the bill? How else can we explain that your few Members of Parliament have been placed on committees, in fact two of your key officials, former ministers, Ms Giannakou and Ms Kefaloyannis, were openly differentiated? Ladies and gentlemen, due to the enormous importance of our family institution for our society, the regulation of issues relating to it is made at the highest level than the Civil Code, the Constitution, the European Social Charter, the European Convention on Human Rights and the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. The relationship between the regulations of this draft law and this valuable domestic and international protection grid is totally problematic. Let's see why. The Greek family law, as reflected in the pioneer Law 1329/1983, is one of the most progressive in the world. And that's why he puts the child's best interests at the centre of care. But what do we mean 'fair interests of the child'? We mean a set of factors aimed at the integrated development of minors in independent and responsible personalities. Therefore, the interest of the child should be protected as a supreme and absolute value that is not relevant to other values. This clear objective must be achieved not only by the relevant judicial decisions but also by legislative initiatives. But the government forgets it. With Article 1511 of the Civil Code on parental care, not only do you hierarchy, Ministers, arbitrarily determine the criteria that determine the interest of the child but are inadmissible with the relationships of the parents. While so far an absolute priority has been the interest of the child, we are now leading to a situation where parents' rights are at the centre. You are responsible for this anachronistic overthrow. Instead of the child's interest as the most sensitive and valuable link in the family chain to determine parental relations, relations will now be, and therefore priorities, goals, desires, purposes, parents' competitions that determine their fate. It is now considered that the child is now a complement to the parental relationship and unfortunately in some cases ends up in the conflicts between them. Of course, the provisions of the bill that confirm this transfer of emphasis from child to parents are little. The committee spoke in detail about the legal arguments of both the institutions and the Members. Specifically, with the new Article 1513 of the Civil Code, it is introduced by the evil, I would say, the possibility of interpreting the word 'equivalent' concerning parental care not as equal but as equal. This will lead to compulsory alternating residence and therefore dangerous situations if there is no parental consent. Just before this Step and a colleague of the New Democracy had the question, because, Ministers, you have not cleared this up. So what do you care here? You are interested in being content with certain parents, who want to serve and not the benefit of the child. Because it is possible in many cases, as provided for in Article 1510 of the Civil Code, that parents jointly exercise parental care to be in the child’s interest, spend more time with one of the two parents and not just the same time. In addition, Article 1520 of the Civil Code introduces a presumption of the child’s physical presence with the parent with whom he does not live, to 1/3 of the total, without clarifying what time you refer to. In free time? In the time of rest? Preparing for school? [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] With this change you are trying to influence the confession of the distribution of communication time, but all you will achieve is to cause serious problems for children, parents, but especially for judges, who will be asked to deal with many disputes in order to settle the time and the calculation of food. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill cannot provide a fair and sustainable solution to the existing issue of updating and modernising Law 1329 after forty years of its implementation. It is not a reform but a deregulation of family law. Instead of confronting the difficulties in implementing the relevant judicial decisions, instead of creating social structures dedicated to qualified social scientists, who will help judges, instead of finally implementing Law 2447/1996 on the establishment of family courts, it imposes compulsory mediation by violating the Istanbul Convention and imposing additional costs on parents. The Government overall fails to comply with the central objective of regulating custody issues allegedly sought by this bill. Has anyone been voiced against conspiracy? Oh, no. We all agree. It was the government that, for the first time, prepared a report on conscientiousness, which the current government could use. Not only does it, but it legislates from scratch, rather than improves the existing groundbreaking legislative framework for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u220	Please shorten up, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u221	I shall conclude, Mr President. And while all of us would agree with broad consultation and consensus to improve the existing framework, the government imposes forced conscientiousness without the broad acceptance of society. The law is at risk of being inapplicable because it compels parents with very bad and possibly child-friendly relationships. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has not explained to us until today...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u222	You're welcome, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u223	I shall conclude with that phrase, Mr President. Please, your tolerance. So the Minister has not explained to us to date why he has not taken into account the comprehensive draft drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which he set up in his ministry. A project results from the cooperation of experienced legal, qualified scientists, psychiatrists, psychologists and others. Minister, answer us. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u224	Mr Vasiliadis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u225	First of all, I just want to say a few words about today. May 19th has been established as the Memorial Day of the Renaissance of the Greeks of the Pontou. One and a half years later, the three hundred three thousand souls will not be quiet and the outdated of the ancestral home families will not be entitled if they are not recognized by a pool of the international community. Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, today is a special moment for the current parliamentary term. We have a draft law in front of us, which deals with an important social issue. The unprecedented involvement of citizens in the consultation process with about fifteen thousand comments over a year and a half shows precisely the concern of society for the outcome of today's legislative process. But let me start my position with one comment. Societies are evolving. The law follows this development. It is in the very nature of the legislative procedure to follow a social phenomenon and not to precede it. So what do we have in front of us? We have the social phenomenon of resolving a marriage with changes, which brings children's relations with divorced parents now. My point is, Mr President, that the legal framework governing this social phenomenon is based on a 1983 law, No 1329. Everyone will agree that the Greek society, the Greek family, the roles of parents, relations with children, standards have evolved considerably in the past, almost forty years - and I would add more quickly. I therefore think that the first assumption we have to make is that this undeniable development must also be followed by the respective legislative initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, my view is that the draft law under discussion covers this need adequately and effectively. This is a highly progressive reform, which has as a basic guide the true and true interest of the child in relation to his parents. The government and the Ministry of Justice introduce five innovations into our jurisprudence system. The draft law is based on the principle of non-discrimination between parents, as it establishes the joint exercise of parental care by both parents after divorce, promotes alternative methods of resolving family differences, such as mediation, establishing a presumption of a third, at least for the communication of the child with each parent, objective criteria for the misuse of parental care are laid down, which are taken into account by the court, such as the non-payment of nutrition or the burglary relationship of the child with the other parent. Finally, special training programs are planned at the National School of Judges by specialised scientists, social and judiciary officials. I now come to the meetings of the committee responsible. First of all, Mr President, I would like to welcome the Bureau's decision to include the Special Standing Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights in the procedure. This decision has also had practical effect, as it has enabled more bodies and colleagues to participate, including us. But, and symbolic, as it is clear from the Greek Parliament that the issue of the draft law is a matter of equality and human rights. However, both in the work of the committee and in the general public debate, the opposition's attitude - and I am sorry to say that - seems to me to have failed to respond to the situation. Unfortunately, I am referring to all parties, of course with the Officerial Response party. What have we seen in this Chamber today? A targeted attempt to distort reality and cultivate a climate of division even in society itself. Your same known practice, split into camps even on such important issues as the child's family environment. Separate ourselves permanently when in memorial and antimonemic and when in moms and dads. And despite your attitude, try to accuse the government that the draft law is a genome. Well, it's not, and that's your problem as it turns out. You have spoken at the very first moment about compulsory conscientiousness, and this does not appear anywhere in the draft law. You mentioned that the new framework favours malicious parents. This also does not appear to be the case anywhere. On the contrary, criteria are laid down for the misuse of parental care, which strengthen the ability of the judge to give custody only to one parent, depriving the abused parent of communication with the child. You deliberately ignore the findings of scientists, who are generally agreed on the beneficial health and development of the child’s children’s consequences of joint parental care and equal time for parents with the child. This is a particularly serious issue and I really regret the fact that we have lost the opportunity to have a fruitful dialogue on a social issue that offers broad consensus. The opposition parties have unfortunately demonstrated that they do not want to take part in the brave reforms that the government promotes and embraces society. The greatest proof is that, despite your lively criticism, you did not come up with specific proposals on the articles, as several bodies did. In fact, many of them were integrated by the leadership of the Ministry of Justice precisely because the New Democracy realises that this is not a question of a sterile political confrontation. In conclusion, Mr President, I support the draft law under discussion, which I believe regulates relations between parents and children on an equal footing after divorce, giving Greek judges the necessary tools and training to judge on a case-by-case basis the interests of the child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, too, for keeping time. We are now continuing with Mr. Theodore Dritsa from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u227	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I quickly heard ERT1 in the morning zone with the two journalists, who have four minutes to present the subject - I do not remember his name - who was there as lawyer and member of the legislator. He defended his bill - his right - but did not stay there. As a party witness, he used all the line for which you, Mr Minister, are unfortunately responsible, to speak directly, but also in a series of implied objections to Mrs Giannakou, Mrs Kefalonianne, the Officer of Anti-Population, the whole opposition in such a disgraceful way that, if possible, he was a member of the legislator's committee! And journalists were smiling and neither the ERT address nor the journalists were sensitive to having a representative at the same time or afterward. Good democracy you have, Minister. Very nice democracy and very nice technocrats in the legislature. We know in passing that the chairman of the Legal Committee, the top judge, has not agreed to the draft law. Who is he, who asks for this bill, you haven't revealed it, but the whole Greek shepherd, everyone knows it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u228	Say it! If there's anything, say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u229	Loby rich, monomans, associated with the President of the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u230	Who's that? Let's find out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u231	Who's that? Name too much. Give me some time, Mr President, because I was interrupted by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u232	You've been interrupted for seconds. Say the names.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u233	I don't know names or keep names or keep names. As Mr. Loverdes said, these people have the right to have their experiences and claim. It's another thing. We don't legislate with experiences. Respect the experiences. I accept Mr. Loverdos' argument. I heard him this morning. Absolutely respected the experiences and the agony. Another thing is the lobby that, as Mrs Giannakou said, has the ability to make ads, which has a line structured. I have participated in several online conversations, in discussions at this time, and I have heard representatives of this school of thought constantly repeating the same stereotype arguments as "snake". Organized history. Fair for their personal agony, absolutely legitimate. The question, however, is the government, the Prime Minister, the Ministry. That's the thing, they're not the people. We don't have any of them any trouble. But at least not to reach this degeneration of democracy in our country. Because everything is interconnected. Ladies and gentlemen, this piece of legislation, as stated in the explanatory statement, the Minister's rhetoric, has as centre the child's interest and the rights of the child. In the morning it was heard - I will repeat - the genocide of the Polish Hellenism found tens of thousands of children killed. Millions in the First and Second World Wars. In Palestine today, dozens and two of the Israeli people are children. We're not making discrimination. And no one's stirring up? It's not escalating! On the other hand, we are talking about Israel's right to self-defence. If that's possible! Well, rights are described in a specific way. And because it is difficult to describe fully, at least to agree on some very basic points. The first right of the child, love of everyone, beyond the law. No law can solve that. That is the first condition. Secondly, the child's stable living conditions. Steady living conditions. This fragmentation of one third, 50-50, of one another, what does it have to do with the child's right? The stable environment, the stable school environment, stable living and development conditions cannot be combined with diligence, with love, with one another or with the other? The third thing we need to raise is this. Is your bill accompanied by a study of the data which has been formed from all these decades under the 1983 Act? Because you are using the argument, and in fact we have reached the very positive point of 86% of divorces consensually, but the terms and rules must be considered - and more than 90% of legal decisions should give the mother diligence, and you think it is the 1983 law, in accordance with the arguments put forward in favour of the bill. It is not the law of 1983, no matter how much improvements they need to be made, because they have indeed changed the data in society. The stereotype of woman, whose only role is to be a mother and a housewife, that's it! Are you going to intervene on these matters?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u234	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u235	I need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u236	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u237	I have not abused time, Mr President. I had the interruption. Will there be protection on the part of the government of the child, protection of the mother and the parent? "Kramer versus Kramer" are we going to show up? And we're supposed to have a bill that solves the problem for dads? Let's see in your investigation, if you want to, how many dads have claimed diligence and consensual divorce for decades. It's not a role for the dads. Luckily, it's starting to change. Luckily, it's starting to change. But is it possible under these conditions to do these things? And in this sense, domestic violence -- we have a feminine homicide in 2021 --
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u238	You're welcome. Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u239	And you're ignoring it? And will you ban a father exercising domestic violence when the final decision is finalised after three and five years?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u240	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u241	These are no arrangements for society to go forward, nor are they arrangements that allow...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Comrade, you've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u243	I'm done, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u244	But please, me too!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u245	Can I not finish my sentence?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u246	You'll never complete it in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u247	It's not ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u248	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u249	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u250	I'm the one who's here, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u251	This is not a presidency exercise. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u252	The exercise of the bureau is...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u253	You're not a pedophile or a police officer. You're setting up the meeting. I would ask you to complete my sentence. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u254	Don't get confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u255	But may I not finish my sentence?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u256	Colleague, do not confuse the bill of conscientiousness with the issue of the Bureau. I allowed you for a minute that you told me, you reached nine and forty-five and I stopped the time. You've reached ten and...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u257	I was interrupted by the Minister. I'm finishing my sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u258	You said it five times. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u259	Well, if you want to abolish the Member's ability to complete his thinking, do it. But that is not the exercise of the office. It doesn't make any sense now to go on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u260	Mr. Drizza, this is no time for revolutionary proceedings. We'll move on to the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u261	You need to learn from other colleagues how to perform your duties...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u262	I have also been taught by the ERT and by the previous government, I have my opinion on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u263	You're an unscrupulous head. What can we do? That's familiar.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u264	Please, Mr. Constantopoulos Dimitrios has the floor from the Change Movement. Mr. Constantopoulos, I hope you too are in your time, don't have any controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are today forty years after the reform of family law with Law 1329/1983, which bears the seal of PASOK, the seal of the Government of Andreas Papandreou. It proved in practice to be a reform that was deeply progressive, and I would say, in the face of its era. And the value of today is recognized not only by our own party, but by all political forces. This legislation, ladies and gentlemen, prioritised the interests of the child and not the power and power of parents. It brought an end to patriarchy and anachronistic perceptions, with the introduction of parental equality. Here, ladies and gentlemen, the following is to be emphasized. In the application of family law, however, and especially in matters of custody of children after divorce, which is the core of today's bill, the question is one. Are judicial decisions today responding to the needs and interests of the child? The answer, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, is that this is not the case very often. We see that the vast majority of judgments in court are one-sided. Diligence is delegated to the mother and father has the right to communication, which is exhausted in a few days of the month, plus, of course, holidays. It's a lot of trouble. That is why it should be said here that the specific characteristics of each family are often not evaluated. Many complaints that communication is not being kept. Many complaints that no food is paid. So a cycle of controversy and conflict with a victim of what else? The kid. Ladies and gentlemen, in such a environment, a bill on the future of children, such as what we are discussing tonight, must reflect modern scientific views and perceptions, must be the result of consultation and not of developing into a battle of trenches between the two parents, it must be a child-center rather than a parent, and it must give solutions, particularly in cases where parents cannot find them. So it is the role of the legislator. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough for us to end up in a 'bra de fer' between parents. I have listened very carefully to the views of the bodies, which were invited to be heard and to the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, that by the arrangements you bring, you cannot make them either reassurance and, indeed, those who fear changes in parental care or, I would say, satisfy this bill by those who are in favour of the full institutionalisation of co-legislation. And that's why? Because, ladies and gentlemen, it does not reflect clear opinions. What's he doing? It moves between fear and steam. Here too, Minister, it must be stressed - and I believe it - that the rigid legal arrangements which it contains will create many problems. Ladies and gentlemen, parental care must be exercised by both parents. That's what scientists say, that's what logic says, that's what we all say. The child needs contact with both parents to have an internal balance in order to develop his or her personality, to develop healthy relations with them around him. So, starting from there and trying to put parental care in molds with numbers and percentages, Minister, you are not helping the ombudsman as well as the judge. So you're giving the judge a quota, and we're not actually talking about the simple thing she needs, its application. In other words, how it will be implemented. According to the beam? Because at the end of the day the quotas are being rescheduled as posts. And as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the office is not established and so it is not flexible because it has an explicit and absolute reference. At the same time, in listing cases of loss of parental care, i.e. the most severe penalty that can be imposed on a parent, instead of focusing on the rights and care of the child, you bear weight on parental behaviour. You define, Minister, for example, that parental care is removed in the event of an emotional alienation of the child by the other parent, and this is of course without any particular condition, and at the same time a final judicial decision is required to remove parental care in cases of domestic violence or crimes against sexual freedom. I mean, we're faking and contradicting. However, Minister, we all know how much Greek justice is going. We know that a primary decision can make two, three, even five years. And until then, parents and children are left unprotected against violence. But this is neither consistent with the Convention on the Rights of the Child nor with the Istanbul Convention. Here's your responsibility, Minister. It's yours. You legislate and you need to give a solution. And you need to get out of the hostage parents and kids. It's your duty, do the thing. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that any reform of family law must have the fundamental interest of the child, to restore the distortions that we all admit that there are today and of course come to the judiciary. And even if, as has been heard by many, 86% of divorces are consensually extradited, the fact is that even children's custody regulation does not actually follow the folded one. So the problem remains. Ladies and gentlemen, the 1983 reform laid the foundations. It is the duty of all of us today to propose the changes that will modernise family law. For us, for the Change Movement, for the PASOK core of the new family law must be the functioning of the family courts with qualified judges, who will be assisted by scientific staff who will approach family differences in a reconciliation and family-friendly nature. This is an institution, an institution that was legislated in 1996, but since then it has never worked. We have heard all the groups, ladies and gentlemen, and all the institutions in favour of the institution, which has been working successfully for many years in other countries and essentially giving us an example. We invite you, Minister, to do so. I have heard a colleague mention that a barrel of old wine is at risk from two words, which are essentially the poison, such as the words 'equivalent' and '1/3'. I'll tell you this. The barrel is in danger of stillness, because the barrel, if it actually gets into it, then the wine...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u266	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u267	That is why I would like to say, Mr Minister, that the gold incision is the possible one, and that must be achieved by all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u268	Thank you. Here comes Mrs. Stergianis Biziu from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, divorce in Greece once was a marginal phenomenon in the life of couples. By 1984 we had five divorces per ten thousand inhabitants. In 1992 eight divorces the same proportion of population, while in 2018 we reached eighteen divorces per ten thousand inhabitants. Obviously there is a marked growth trend in divorces in the years 2008-2018, which exceeds 45%. The vast majority of divorced couples have children. Undoubtedly, the structures of Greek society, couples' relations and the relationship between parents and children have changed greatly in the forty years since the creation of the current family law. The roles of the two sexes have changed, the participation of the two parents, the mother and the father, in child rearing has been differentiated. For many years society, including experts, have underestimated the role of father in the family and development of the child, considering that his impact is less important than that of the mother. But today a great deal of scientific research suggests that the father, through his interaction with the child and through his involvement in life, plays a unique and crucial role in his mental health and personality at all stages of development. After divorce children also need the time and occupation of both their parents and there is neither empirical nor scientific basis for exclusive parental care. Scientific studies, as well as the experience of everyday life teach us that children, who have both parents in their lives after divorce, have better quality of life, have better developmental results, improved academic performance, improved indicators of psychological, emotional and social well-being, while reducing the incidence of problematic behaviours. So there is a clear correlation between the presence of the two parents and the mental state and children's development performance. Showing sensitivity and social reflexes, the Ministry of Justice comes to address these new social data and incorporate our legislation. Assisting him anyway a childcentre of family law, he introduces innovations that meet the needs of the modern family and, above all, the needs of the children. Joint exercise of parental responsibility. There is no scientific research to deny that the child is benefiting from the presence of both parents in his life. This regulation highlights the uniqueness of the role each parent performs, while at the same time reducing the disputes as divorced people know in advance that they will be invited to decide together for the life of their child. For the first time, the presumption of minimum communication time is introduced, ensuring that the parent, who is not staying with the child, will have substantial communication with him and will not be the one-hour visitor in his life. Mediation is being established as a mandatory stage in the resolution of family differences. Intermediation gives parents the opportunity to discover for themselves what model of communication and diligence fits their own separate case before reaching the natural judge and before they end up in dispute. The nature of the mediation process, the compromise climate and the confidentiality that characterize it contribute to improving relations between the two sides and normalising conflicts. Finally, for the first time, criteria for the misuse of parental care are laid down. We provide the judge with an extra tool in order to make it easier to define inappropriate parental behaviour. It is an indicative numbering of unacceptable behaviours that do not restrict the judge who remains the final assessor of the situation. In this direction, training programmes are being organised for judges who will judge family differences cases by qualified psychologists, sociologists and social workers. This reference to examples of malaise in parental care also helps parents, given that it gives them a point of reference to know in advance what behavior they might have led to the loss of custody. Both scientific studies and research and daily practice show that conditions in Greece are mature to change the existing regime. The legislative initiative, which we are debating today, has caused a strong public debate and is, in fact, a response from the state to this debate, a debate which is not only today, but has been evolving for years at the same time as changes in society, structures and standards of the family. Consensus and understanding are necessary in order for divorced parents to develop a level playing field. This framework is therefore created by this legislation, which encourages parents to accept cooperation in bringing up their children, because raising a child is primarily an individual right of children that our state must protect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mrs Bizu, and respect for the time. Mr Constantine Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Today is the Mood's Memorial Day. It's one of the fierceest crimes in the world history with hundreds of thousands dead. We honor the memory of those who have lost their lives because of nationalism and hatred, those who have been tortured, troubled and learned our story so that we do not live it again. I want to come to the bill. This government, Mr Chiara, has a terrible talent, which, as time goes by, is changing. It has an absolute impotence to create a field of compositions and consensus even on issues, which are very delicate and very sensitive, such as what we are discussing today. The whole opposition, Mr. Kotsira, is across. Important executives of the Partnership with a strong political figure, with significant differentiations, such as Ms Giannakou and Ms Kefaliannis, have also created a climate that shows that you cannot convince the Members of your side. However, I do not want to stay only within Parliament's limits. What you have brought today to the vote has brought great division and great polarisation of those with special interest in the matter. You can't reach consensus on such matters and you can't create a real field of solutions if you don't have a mild climate of synthesis and perception of the arguments on the other side. Today we are not fighting in Parliament the New Democracy with SYRIZA, with the Change Movement, with the JRC, with Mera25. Today we are discussing a delicate and sensitive issue, which should have exhausted the scope of composition, consensus and understanding. Why, then, does this phenomenon arise? The opposition awakened one day and said: Oh, what a fine subject, to create tension? Not because this, which you bring, displaces the centre of weight of today's child-centered family law and diligence, degrades and releasing the concept of the child's interest and tends to be generic. The finding of the Legislative Committee has been ignored. Isn't that unprecedented? The opinion of important social and scientific bodies has been ignored. The MPs of the Coupling have been appointed for disagreeing and interpreting their positions by the Ministry as experiential. Is this the debate and dialogue to be held in Parliament on such matters, Minister? Do changes in the existing context need to be made today? Of course they do. Are there any serious issues? Of course, there are serious issues. Where are these located? Mostly in the difficulty, in the incomplete application, of the non-implementation of the judgment given. We did everything we had to do with auxiliary mechanisms to alleviate these situations with sociologists, with child psychologists, with social workers? No, we didn't. Are there any specialised judges, family courts? No, they don't. Says the bill something about it, is there any welfare, some conversation? They are presented from various aspects of Parliament. Oh, no. We as SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance are in favour of conscientiousness. You found a draft law and a explanatory statement to the Ministry. But here, you guys bring a corset. You bring a forced conspiracy that will exacerbate the problems you declarably say that you want to solve. You define one-third. Why not 40% or 43%, which is also fashionable, tomorrow we have the electoral law for Ottas or 25%? The New Democracy MPs say that the bill is not faithful to the United Nations Convention and the Istanbul Convention. Can we proceed further without that? For us, therefore, the Commission's conclusion could be the basis for a progressive reform and a modernisation of family law. But you canceled it, throw it away, bring tension, get acidification. So, what do you create in practice with this bill, Minister? You create two speed parents, the 1/3 parent and the 2/3 parent. The parent 1/3 is mainly privileged and the parent 2/3 has obligations mainly. Can I ask you something? The State Secretary for Family Policy and Gender Equality is completely absent. Is that possible? The general secretariat for family policy and equality is also completely absent. Is that possible? In no one, but in any other European country there is no mandatory conscientiousness after the divorce. If parents disagree, they appeal to the courts and that is where decisions are made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u272	What's going on here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u273	In our view, this should also be done here. I told you, Minister, to see where the decisions are incomplete, where the decisions are not implemented. Now you say two-thirds, one-thirds. We have a divorced couple. One stays in New Ionia, the other stays in Glyfada. Where's the kid going to school?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u274	Is that not possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u275	Where's the kid going to school I need you to tell me, Minister? Where's he going to do his sports activity?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u276	Of course it's like you call it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u277	Where's his basketball playing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Comrade, go on. There's no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u279	So I do not raise a point of view, there is a question. We are in crisis, we are in difficulty. But here, we must heal matters, recognise them, look at positive practices from abroad, not have such tensions and polarisation between us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u280	Thank you for the time, Mr President. Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but mention the peculiarity of today's day, the Memorial Day of the Greek Genocide of the Pontus, about a century after this sad event of our fellow Greeks were killed, displaced. It is our duty, therefore, to honor their memory, remember and fight for justice and recognition of this day. I move on to this draft law, which is another reform of the New Democracy Government, a reform of family law in a sector of civil law with a significant social impact. In the consultation that has taken place, and in general the views expressed to date, many problems have been identified, which have emerged in the relations between parents and children following the cessation of cohabitation or the resolution of marriage, problems which I myself have seen as a minister of justice, a lawyer and a legal representative in such cases, which by their very nature have a particular sensitivity, reflecting in the spirit, progress and development of children, but also in the normal social and family life. We have all seen strong disputes, and for a long time and in order to deal with various issues between parents, after the end of cohabitation. In 2016, nine thousand seven hundred ninety cases were brought in. In 2019 we reached the fifteen thousand eight hundred sixty-three cases. This demonstrates the necessary intersection in the reform of family law, thirty-eight years after Law 1329. They are disputes which inevitably go through different ways and degrees in children and have a negative impact on the relationship with parents, and it is certain that we need to focus on trying to resolve these disputes consensually and out-of-courtly, with effective participation in this effort, both by lawyers and judges and also by ombudsmen. In this draft law, therefore, there are two important provisions. The resolution of disputes by mediation by specialised ombudsmen is encouraged so that recourse to the court is the last option. In addition, special training is provided for young judges who will deal with these sensitive cases by the National School of Judges and special training seminars for existing judges. Ladies and gentlemen, we must all agree that in such cases parents must be encouraged to resolve their disputes out of court and mediation where necessary, in order to provide the necessary support to parents so as to avoid disputes. But, in the essence of the disputes that have arisen in such cases, we should focus on the most serious problems. And I shall refer to what I have seen from my experience in handling such cases. The phenomenon of a removal from the parent's child, which is not diligent, is observed because of the fact either the communication time is not sufficient or because the parent does not participate in important decisions concerning the child or disagrees with some of them, which is another serious point of friction with the other parent. But there are two other serious cases that alienate, I could say, one parent from his child, cases that unfortunately happen. The phenomenon of parenting changes the place of his or her child's residence and place of residence at a distant place in relation to the residence of the other parent, which is particularly common in marriages with parents, originating in different regions, but also in marriages between foreigners. Even more serious is the case that a parent, who takes custody and resides with the child, with psychological pressure and war, turns the minor child against the other parent, effectively transferring his own problems with the other parent to the child and using the child to avenge his ex-husband. In these cases the right to communicate with the parent who violates it is violated, fortified behind the child's refusal to communicate with the other parent. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed the case that I as a lawyer have been very difficult to deal with, and it is also cases where the judge cannot deal with them enough many times, so far not having the necessary scientific support from qualified psychologists and social workers. Of course, it is very common that the phenomenon of a parent is in breach of the maintenance requirement, as it has been established by the court, which can come from either the intensity of the disputes or even the removal from the child, precisely because of this limited communication. Because I find it hard to understand otherwise a parent’s refusal to contribute to the necessary support for his child. All these are problems that have arisen in recent years and it is certain that there was a need for legislative intervention. On these issues, this draft law provides a solution. A fighting presumption shall be established in one third of the child's communication time with the parent who will not spend any more time with the child in accordance with Article 13, which replaces Article 1520 of the Civil Code. This presumption helps parents co-operate with the care of their children and creates not only conditions for more time, but also for quality communication time with the child, especially by the parent with whom he does not reside. Because, as has been seen on several occasions, the non-communication of the child with the parent and vice versa leads to intense changes in mental health, which are growing during its development. In this draft law, the main objective criteria for misuse of parental responsibility are laid down in Article 14, which replaces Article 1532 of the Civil Code, such as non-payment of maintenance, non-compliance with the judgments and agreements of divorced parents in connection with the communication of the other parent and the burglary relationships of the child with the other parent. The way in which parental care is exercised is thus assessed so that, if necessary, the competent court can redefined the distribution and the special way in which it is exercised. I should also like to make it clear here that each case is always different. The competent judge will have the power to examine the specificities of each case and to differentiate wherever necessary and to make an appropriate decision, in the light of all the interests of the child. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is a necessary one for modern society reform, which comes to regulate key issues in relation to father and mother relations for the benefit of children. The role of both parents is strengthened in relation to child rearing. Cooperation between the two parents shall be strengthened and encouraged. The role of the Ombudsman is strengthened and the role and position of the judge in dealing with these sensitive cases is strengthened. This is a bill with purely childcentres. It is in the best interests of the child, and I am sure that, with this reform, many of the problems that so far arise in the implementation of the existing legislative framework will be tackled. I therefore invite you to vote on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the time. We continue with Mr.Ioannis Mela from New Democracy and conclude with colleagues from SYRIZA, Anastasia Gara and Mr. Socrates Famelos. Mr. Mela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. May I too join my voice together with the other colleagues for today, memory day for the Greeks of Pontou. hundreds of thousands of Greeks have been lost, and I think that this day we should honour and give it the importance and value that we need. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to discuss and vote on a bill on a big social issue on the next day of a divorce. The changes introduced by this bill concern relations between parents and children in the event of divorce. This reform of family law comes after thirty-eight years and it is now necessary, because in these years the contact between parents and children in the daily life of the family has changed. Both the role of the father and the mother in the family have been differentiated. Both the needs and obligations of children and parents have increased and changed. The foundation of the family has been transformed, but it remains strong for the Greek society. The other was Greece of 1983 and the other was Greece of 2021. So all these requirements of modern times have led to the specific arrangements of the bill. This draft law is a product of long consultation and discussion with all sides and all the relevant bodies, a difficult one, due to the sensitive nature of the object of the bill and at the same time an important initiative, which was brought to fruition by the Ministry of Justice. So what do we do with this draft law? We are establishing a new institutional framework, which will govern the relationship between parents and children after the loss of spouses' cohabitation or divorce. The joint exercise of parental care by both parents is established. The fightable presumption of 1/3 is established for the communication of the child with the parent with whom he does not live. This ensures the balanced communication of the child with both parents. Clear and objective criteria for misuse of parental care, such as domestic violence or non-payment of food, are being established. The judge in cases of domestic violence, or judging the general attitude of the parent, will be able to restrict or even cancel the parent’s communication with the child. There is no tolerance for us in the incidents of domestic violence. Both women and children are protected from such phenomena. It should be noted that all the provisions will be applied and interpreted in accordance with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women, the Istanbul Convention. Alternative methods of resolving family differences are also introduced, such as mediation. Finally, special programmes of the National Judicial School are being established for the training of judges, who will judge family differences from specialized scientists. Ladies and gentlemen, these arrangements have the focus of the child. We are seeking to create a legal framework so that parents can consult themselves to resolve their disputes out of court, avoid disputes and quarrels between children who are harming each other, as well as both parents having a presence and a reason in the upbringing and progress of their children. It is wrong to talk about 'winners' and'required' parents. Divorce or separate parental cohabitation is a development that can happen in the life of a couple and the state must provide to ensure the child’s normal upbringing. This is undoubtedly a big social issue. It is clear that it will not only be solved by legislative arrangements, as it even goes beyond our role. The aim of the initiative, however, is the presence of both parents in the everyday life and needs of children. Many times when there is a marriage solution or separate cohabitation, one of the two parents disappears from the life of the child and usually becomes the "father of the weekend" or the "father of the weekend", which has unpleasant and negative consequences for the psychology and progress of the children. The role of father and mother in children's lives is different, essential and decisive. One cannot under any circumstances replace the other. So this is what we are seeking to ensure with this bill that children are raised by the presence of both parents. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has raised many reactions and individual disagreements. It is reasonable and perfectly understandable that this is the case. We are not talking about an economic bill, nor about a bill on labour. It has no ideological, no party character and goes beyond the left and right. It's about our everyday life, the hard core of the family, and sensitive issues. We didn't make a bill in favour of Dads and Moms, neither in favour of moms and parents. It's a bill in favor of children and their right upbringing. That is why both the present and the future of our country are concerned. Because if children are not born, if Greek citizens are not born, we have no future. If Greeks are not overturned with family standards, with father's image and mother's image, regardless of whether the parents are or are not together, then the Greek society of the future will be corrupted. So we need to stay away from all kinds of populism and purposes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And since all day in the debate of the bill we heard about "lobby" that it legislates, for "friends" of the Prime Minister, implied that "wallets", for "lines" in the media and for campaign funding, we would really like you to tell us who they are, because you who know you leave us MPs, who do not know how to fall into a error, to fall into a trap that sets us a "lobby", some "groups", "Nefelim", "Elehim", the Minister, the Deputy Minister. You have to tell us what you mean. Because if you don't, there's something else going on. And what we need to put well in our minds is that on such issues we need maturity and responsibility from all of us, on whatever side of Parliament we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr. Mela. We are now continuing with SYRIZA and Ms Anastasia Gara, and we will conclude with Mr Socrates Famelos. Here, Mrs. Gara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Day of honor and remembrance today of barbarism, which has been suffered by the mouse people, but a day that reminds us of our debt to the historical justice, but also of the deterrence of any heinous crime against humanity. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill on very important and very sensitive issues of family law in a society and a context that constantly changes, new needs and obligations are emerging, new forms of social relations and behaviour. We are therefore called upon to legislate in defence of children's acquired rights, always aimed at improving living conditions. Unfortunately, however, the New Democracy Government does not make use of this possibility of modernising the legal framework by including tools, which will respond to the current needs of both the child and the parents, but brings a bill of non-inclusion, a draft anachronistic with many problems and risks in its implementation, a bill which unfortunately turns the gaze into the past through a more general conservative political perception, as well as at other levels, such as the law on working hours that breaks down and turns us decades back or like legislation to dismantle public education. The main feature of the bill under discussion is the change in the nature of family law from child center to genome. The child now ceases to have an arbitrary, independent personality with rights. The burden falls on the needs of the parents and not on the needs of the child itself. This is a change in which the country's legal and scientific world, women's and international organisations, and even our fellow Members of the Couple have reacted together. However, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to mention that the practice of conscientiousness is not today introduced into our legal framework and in our everyday life. Despite the efforts of the main ministers and the systemic media to show us conscientiousness as something innovative, which is now being legislated and will solve problems for parents and children, it is necessary to stress, in the interests of the truth, that conscientiousness is already regulated by current law and is applied to the majority of divorce cases. In cases, even where there is a failure to regulate, justice itself intervenes. To date, each child has been a unique story considered separately by the judge according to the needs and interests of the child. The proposed draft law, however, arbitrarily and horizontally introduces the definition of the interest of the child, the same interest for all children, effectively removing from the judge the possibility of judging individually and on a case-by-case basis. The 1983 Act, which is still in force today, has been characterized by all and all as progressive and adequate. Obviously there is a need for a new view, a modernisation in the light of developments in the institutional and social field, but also supportive structures. That is why we, too, had taken over the SYRIZA government's mandate and had gone along with a legislative initiative and worked out in the opposite direction, of course, to the effect that you are currently bringing. During the preparation of the bill, Minister, you tried to convince us that the custody arrangements you are currently legislating are about 90% of the divorced in the country. However, according to data presented by official bodies, these arrangements relate to around 3%, as some 86% of divorces are consensual and have already agreed and exercised conscientiousness. However, you and the Government of New Democracy have chosen to serve specific interests with thick wallets, as reported by our colleagues in the Coupling, which you have not answered, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of conscientiousness, the improvement of the lives of divorced parents, support and protection of maternity, and in particular the improvement of the life of children are dealt with by the presence of a strong welfare state, by increasing family income, by strengthening work, by protecting work, by operating social support services and by structures of scientists assisting judges in their decisions in specific cases. It would be of special interest, you know, to discuss today the conditions for the functioning of the family courts, structures that can operate in conditions of scientific expertise, examine separately each case with its characteristics and take care of the child's real interests according to its real needs. For all this, of course, the current bill you are proposing does not mention a word or a word. Horizontal and compulsory solutions, such as the time-sharing, forced conspiracy, are unfortunately leading to a new problem. The majority of society, ladies and gentlemen, is opposed to the bill and calls for it to be withdrawn. Women's and international organisations, bodies, scientists have made substantial points on the problem. Even the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament is a trick against the bill. Not only do you not consider them, Minister, you have also made sure that all the opposite voices remain obscured. In conclusion, Mr President-in-Office, I would in no way be able to omit the reference to the problematic provision concerning malicious parents. With an incomprehensible proposal, the abused parent, even if convicted, could have contact with the child and access to the abused ex-wife until the final decision. This means five to six years in which the abused mate and children are unfortunately left unprotected. The presumption of innocence, in other words, goes beyond the safety of women and children. Here I invite you to see this provision again. Minister, we can't play with children's souls. We can't play with anyone's souls. No one can judge the child's interest horizontally, disregarding the real needs and interests of children. Their children and relationships with parents are not mathematical equations the same for everyone. They're unique cases. We therefore call on you to withdraw this bill and immediately open up an open, democratic dialogue that includes all views and concerns all forms of family and parenthood. It will examine the current needs and specificities and will address strengthening structures and policies to strengthen family and parenthood, while respecting the rights and needs of the child. And so, we will also support the real institution of conscientiousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u286	Thank you. The procedure with Mr Famello from SYRIZA is complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I too join my voice by paying tribute to the victims of the Pontius Genocide, but also to the victims of refugee violence, calling for the recognition of genocide and calling for all of us to contribute so that we do not have refugee, war, pain and injustice. But I must convey to the Greek Parliament a positive news. The left-wing amendment signed by all SYRIZA MEPs to remove the restrictions created by the patent for the production and movement of the vaccine was approved shortly. It was voted by Socialists and Greens, but was voted against by the Right and Right of the European People's Party. Unfortunately, the New Democracy MEPs voted against the regulation, which recognises the vaccine as a social good and calls for access for everyone to cheap and fast vaccines to fight the pandemic. For me personally it was not surprising to vote against this regulation by the Members of the New Democracy, but to prove that the interests of the parties, the interests of the New Democracy, are with the interests of the pharmaceutical industry, but they are not with the interests of society, they are not with the health. Mr Minister, Mr Chiara, I must admit that the issue you have to solve is difficult. After all, it can only be a sensitive and crucial issue that is linked to a divorce, which is linked to the lives of two members, which separate the common life and the children who exist in this common life. That is why he has drawn the attention of such a large part of society. A legislative committee has been set up - and we had taken a corresponding initiative - and the issue has been raised on the political agenda. We had things to add to a high-level and high-scientific legislation, but that had been forty-five years in its implementation. I must say, Mr. Chiara, that I, too in my family circle, had experience of this law which was not followed by the beginning of the trial and by the courts and had as victims the father and the child. I also expected a political section which would be an answer, a social reform, so that we could have solutions and a better life for children in particular. Minister, I have to say I was disproved. This bill is also a proof of what permanently makes New Democracy. He is using a real social problem to deceive the social groups who are interested in it from behind the service of interests. And I must say that you are not just helping with this regulation to solve a problem that we had to solve - with the functioning of the courts, for example, and with the application of the courts' rulings - but I am sure you are multiplying the problems. And so you deceive society and serve a few interests. There is no substantial interference, Minister, in the courts. On the contrary, there is also a return to unscientific, I would say, anachronistic arrangements. That is, instead of going further ahead with science and society, what we call personalised regulation and solution, you take us back. It's unbelievable how with violent and horizontal choices you go to solve a social problem. But it's not mathematics, it's not mechanical, like my science. You have to deal with a social issue and you will also create judicial deadlocks. Is it possible that the pillars of rights, that is, global conditions, for the rights of the child and woman, should finally enter as legislators because you were pressed for two weeks by all the other parliamentary groups and the Scientific Service of the House to judge you? It is shameful for Greece of 2021 that we pass the world's agreements by legislating, ignoring the nomadic committee that you have created, ignoring the legal world, the judiciary, the scientists of the child. And I must say here that, apart from deception and hypocrisy, you have another element that is in almost all of your legislative initiatives as a New Democracy: Ignore and underestimate science for two reasons: firstly, because you want to have a good time and yours. That is why you have swept through the entire scientific community, which had prepared other proposals, but also the nomadic community. But you are doing so for another reason: Your policy, Mr Chiara, in her DNA is anachronistic and unscientific. As a new Republic, as a political area, you are averting those who think and think, because they are ruining your plans, very simply. The Scientific Service of the Parliament, however, is yet another proof of the unscientific and anachronistic nature and of the serious legal problems that your regulation has. We see from publicity today - if you like, you also expose the country - that eight European networks, a hundred world women's organisations, collectors from thirty countries denounce Greece. Instead, to solve a problem, to help us have a social, progressive reform, you are creating a problem in our country as well. Instead of listening to the child, you're shaking up the child in this bill. You don't care about the child, who has problems and we have to solve them, which you are dealing with as an object, as a product and not as a centre of parental care and care, but also as a state. It does not take account of this bill, of the rights or the will of the child. The Scientific Service of the Parliament has highlighted the curiosity of this bill. It strips your arguments and proves that your goal is mandatory conscientiousness and alternating residence. And you're trying to hide it hypocritically behind excuses that you're going to solve a problem. And, obviously, this change you are trying to change today's social base will also, so that problems can multiply as far as consensus divorces are concerned. Instead of helping non-consensuals and finding a 10% solution, you will multiply non-consensuals, because you are dynamising the consensus that has been formed as a social base, as a social perception. We needed a model of personalised regulation and you come with arbitrary technical criteria to create problems where there are no ones. And you lead to dystopic situations the most vulnerable, i.e. women of one parent families, who are unemployed or working with very low wages, who will take on all the tensions of upbringing and eating and will be compressed further. Why? Because that is how you have a dystopic society in your political model. That is why you are weakening all policies of social, caring and welfare. And bring this bill too to compress even more and dismantle these social groups, make them vulnerable and thus manageable. And, of course, with Mr Hatzidakis' bill, you are coming to dismantle both their working rights and working hours. Thus, neither welfare nor family peace nor care nor employment rights. This is the dystopian future you are preparing. But you don't care about all this. You don't have a social profile in your politics. You don't care about society or your science. You only care how to deal with some specific interests. That's why we make the point of correcting technical errors, I feel, Mr. Xanthopoulou, that we're traveling or that we're talking about wrongly. There is no way that they perceive the technical errors that they have made because they are political choices, they are not just mistakes, that is, that they have left a word. This also reveals the possibility and the possibility that it has come out in plenary today, that the parties concerned have heard government talks to serve these interests. So it is unscientific, the bill, anti-social, it serves interests, hypocritical but also with anti-democratic methods in a parliament with limitations, without all Members involved. I do not know whether you will be led to a vote by correspondence in order to fade any voice that has not yet been raised in plenary, but is contrary to this bill. If you have the political courage, Mr Chiara, since justice is an element of democracy, now make the decision that the roll-call vote should not be by mail and that the Members of Parliament should be secret in the Chamber, so that we can see the rest of the Members of the New Democracy what attitude they will take. Because the disagreements of the two women Members of the New Democracy are proof that it is not just chairs, Mr Chiara, that there are people and values and personalities. You probably accept a chair to serve any interest. However, there are still politicians who have reason and the fact that they are making this speech here is not a sign of democracy, because the provocatives against the MPs, who disagreed, prove that you also have anti-democraticity in your party's DNA. And it is not proof of good legislation that there are also disagreeable Members, it is proof - and I conclude, Mr President - of a bad law. Mr. Mitsotakis promotes a bad, unfair, anachronistic and anti-social bill. You take this responsibility and should even now get this bill back. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u288	I just want to say that there is no secret ballot in this House. You mean nominal. Mr. Famelos meant no less than no secret.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u289	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u290	I think there is no secret ballot. The votes are based on...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u291	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-19-S1-commons.u293	With the consent of the House at 22.52 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 20 May 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work: continue to discuss and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Justice "Reforms on relations between parents and children and other issues of family law".
