ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 20-05-2021 delegation, the minutes of the PKT meeting were ratified by the Bureau on Thursday 20 May 2021 with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "Reforms on relations between parents and children and other issues of family law".]] I have the honour to inform the House of the current Questions of Monday 24 May 2021, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 759/14-5-2021 by MP B3's South Athens Sector SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Balafa to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Incomprehensible delay in the procedures for the completion of the concession of Eleftherios Venizelos (Airma) to the Municipality of Agios Dimitrios". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 757/13-5-2021 by MP Halkidiki of the Change Movement Mr.Apostolos Pana to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Extending the history of the Halkidiki Revolution in separate chapters in school books". 3. The Question No 772-17-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Manolis Synthakis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "To withdraw the vengeance and illegal redundancies of workers at the Recyclable Materials Selection Centre (CIDA) Heraklion and to take all necessary measures to protect the health of workers". 4. The Question No 755/11-5-2021 by the Greek Parliamentary of State Mr.Villiardos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Absence in handling the deferred tax due to the "Hive-Down" (Hive-Down) of Piraeus Bank and the need to investigate possible damage to the State". 5. The Question No 752/10-5-2021 by MP Heraklion of Mera25 Mr. Georgios Logiades to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Done for 14 years on the seabed of Santorini, Sea Diamond". B. MAIN QUESTIONS Second Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure). 1. The Question No 760/14-5-2021 by MP Chania of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Paul Pavlakis to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "Structuring justice in Chania". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Giannakopoulou, Minister for Culture and Sport, asked the question of 'Inadequate programming for the resumption of the dramatic schools'. 3. The question raised by Mr Maria Konnakkas, Member of Parliament's Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, to the Minister of Health, on "The lack of personnel at the Centre for Health of the Lesvos Prefecture of Lesvos". 4. The Question No 756/13-5-2021 by MP B1'North Athens Sector of the Hellenic Solution Mr Anastasias - Catherine Alexopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The lack of maintenance and care of the Tykobyris forests - Pefkis leads to a risk of destruction". 5. The Question No 753/10-5-2021 by MP Heraklion of Mera25 Mr. Georgios Logiadis to the Minister of Culture and Sports on the subject: "Restoration of the Cretan Monument of the Great Cretan National Benefit of Antonio F. Papadakis". 6. The 769-17-2021 topical question of SYRIZA's MP I Thessaloniki - Progressive Alliance Mr. Catherine (Caterina) Notopoulou to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Xenagos. Without income and without prospects’. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question raised by Mr Ahmet Ilhan, Member of the European Parliament, about the absence of vaccination centres in the Municipality of Arrianes of Regional Unity (P.E.). 8. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synchronakis, Minister for Culture and Sport, on "Direct measures to support clubs and athletes in the relaunch of sport". 9. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "New opacity for the Phyllis. Epidemiological study, groundwater pollution study, is ignored.’ 10. The question by number 770-17-2021 of SYRIZA's MP Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "An evaluation deficit of self-test - opacity for epidemiological data and control of SARS mutations - CoV -2 in Greece". 11. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "Addressing the problem with legacy, which does not recognize the property register and extend the deadlines for pre-institution." 12. The question by No. 775-17-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr. Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of Finance, on "Problems of Workers in the Greek Vehicle Industry S.A., which is in special liquidation". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Exclusion of workers in municipalities through OAED programmes from free self-diagnostic control'. 14. Observed. The 776-17-2021 topical question by Mr. Xanthi of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Zabek Hussein to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Conversion of the 17th Elementary School of Xanthi to the Experimental School (PI.S.)". 15. The question by number 777/17-5-2021 of the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "An unjustified delay in the payment of compensation for the farmers of Elias. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Art. 130 p. 5 KC. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 1. The question under number 400/484/9-2-2021 and the request for Documents received by the Member of Parliament II Piraeus - the Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Ragosi to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Would the Government protect the public interest? What is, in accordance with the compliance control system of the OAS S.A.’s contractual obligations? - COSCO, all its documentation - up to now - implementing the 11 compulsory investments, reference costs 293.783.800 and PPA membership of EUR 162.951.352'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "We need the government's care to protect all workers in tourism and foodism". 3. The question, under number 5066/526/16-2021, and the request for Documents to be lodged by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Illegal approval as strategic investments of eight new wind parks in Evia?' 4. The Question No 5598/1-4-2021 by MP B3' in the South Athens area of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Balafa to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Proclamations on the tables for the reversal of medical candidates". 5. The 2023/17-2021 Report by Herculos MEP of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “The request of the airline IFLY S.A. for a grant to deal with the consequences of the COVID -19 pandemic.’; 6. Question No 5226/22-2021 by Mr Haralambos, Member of the SYRIZA Parliamentary - Progressive Alliance Mr Haralambos (Hary) Mamoulakis to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "When will the road axis of Heraklion - Messaras be completed?" Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Production, export and disposal of finished cannabis medicinal products of the species Cannabis Sativa L content of more than 0,2% tetrahydrocannabinol (THC).’ The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 12 May 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate it is proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives, be natural in their presence, that is to say a one-sided circle comprising one speaker from each parliamentary group and a twelve-member circle of speakers with the ratio of five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA and one colleague from each of the other parties. A teleconferencing service shall also be proposed for a twelve-aisled circle of speakers with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. I think there is no objection to the basic suggestion. I would like to inform my fellow Members that a request for a roll-call vote has been tabled in principle by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. There are signatures when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u3	Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u4	Good morning and thank you, Mr. President. I take the floor because I would like to state the absolute opposition of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance in the way that the debate is going today. The subject came yesterday. Mr President, at a time when the vast majority of the functions of Greek society are back to normal pace and the only thing that is lacking, mutilated, is the Greek Parliament and the Greek universities - I hope these two - the temple of democracy and the area of freedom of movement of ideas are not related. Can Parliament be operated without Members? Here we are discussing whether at nightclubs will return the buds. Does the Members not have the right to exercise this constitutional right, to parliamentary control, to live and to exchange views? What's the point? Is it appropriate to hide in this way, seeing pandemic as an opportunity, the antisocial character of a series of critical legislation that overthrows decades of conquest? In the end, there is another feasibility, the one we saw reflected in yesterday's vote, that you might be able to cover up, to settle voices differently in your party. I am not talking about you, of course, Mr President. You are, of course, a member of the parliamentary majority. I am referring to the government and colleagues of the government majority. Mr President, I would ask the sovereign House today to decide to hold, at least as a first step, this debate in full composition, normally, as required. As long as, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, and believe, you can hope that there will be some "embol" for democracy, it does not exist. The democracy virus is a good thing. We want him. It's a good thing. It's oxygen. In this sense, Mr President, I would ask the House to decide that there should be a full democratic function, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. We cannot continue to move on to this undemocratic catastrophe! You'll find us in front of you all the time. We will defend Parliament, defend democracy, defend what Greek citizens are interested in, become a live, honest, democratic dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u5	I will reply to the part concerning Parliament. As President-in-Office, I cannot go into the party disputes, while complying with the Rules of Procedure. In principle, as far as today's bill is concerned, the decision is unanimous in the Conference of Presidents. We decided that if it were two days last night's bill, it would be debated today, abhorred, questions that are going on Monday. The decision was unanimous both in terms of procedure and in terms of what is going to happen today. Secondly, as you know, today and despite the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents, you have sent two - three more - it may be the number of mistaken speakers in the natural presence that the Bureau has accepted. But I can't do it from here anymore. That was accepted. Thirdly, as it is already known, the way this House operates is not a decision, on the basis of a recommendation from Mr Constantine Tasoula, as President of Parliament, but is on the basis of the Committee on the Health of the House, which has been the same for many years. The current government did not make any changes. Fourthly, because you say that the House is sneezing, I would remind you of something that we all know about. From January to now twenty-four bills have been passed. A thousand hundred and thirty Members have spoken, either physically or by teleconferencing, mixed, that is, fifty Members per draft law. There are already new colleagues here, but there are some who are very old. Don't tell me that without pandemic you remember in common bills attending more than fifty MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u6	I'll tell you about the denomination, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u7	I'll get there. So I come to the vote. I think it was probably forgotten to mention yesterday by your Chief that by a unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents, the vote has changed. It's no longer just episcopal. It is also natural in nature that those who wish to do so, and those who wish to do so, should also wish to do so. What has changed only in the physical presence? We have said every 50 colleagues every hour. Let's say eleven and twelve the first fifty, twelve with one the others. But the physical presence is allowed too. So any colleague who wishes, instead of sending a letter of formal vote based on doctors' suggestions, can come and vote in a natural presence. So where is the tooling and suffocation? I don't understand that thing. I am always talking exclusively about what has been decided in the Conference of Presidents. I'm not saying my own personal point of view. Indeed, you have made your objections at the Conference. I record it so that your representative has not made any objections. And other parties. But as far as today is concerned, the decision on the basis of the suggestion I read with the derogation that I made as a Bureau, after consulting the President to add the names of colleagues to us in a natural presence, was unanimous. So please allow me to begin. Your disagreement has been recorded. The rapporteur, Mr Kelles, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the draft law on cannabis medicinal products is introduced into Parliament's plenary after discussion in the Standing Committee on Production and Trade, where it was voted in principle by a large majority. This is a draft law which aims to improve the position of Greek production on the world market for medicinal cannabis, which has been growing rapidly in recent years. The UN and the World Health Organisation have advocated the use of cannabis medicinal products for the relief of patients and chronic suffering, and the European Parliament has also taken a similar position. The European Parliament pointed out that there should be a distinction between cannabis, which is put on the market for euphoric reasons and cannabis medication, which can help treat diseases and improve the health of those who use its products. He also stressed that the committee should ensure that the development of cannabis research will not encourage the spread of drug-related criminal networks nor encourage young people and those vulnerable to addiction. Finally, the European Parliament predicts that investment in this industry will have significant economic benefits. The economic dimension of the development of this new sector is reflected in the GDP of the United States of America which is intended as a model for our country. According to the explanatory memorandum to the bill, the effect of cannabis on the American economy is estimated at 0.5% at the end of 2021 and over 0.6% from 2024. Similarly, in Greece it is estimated that the contribution of cannabis to more than EUR 1 billion after ten years. The investment interest has, moreover, been felt over the past few years, as there have been seventy applications, of which ten were approved, ninety-four have received FECs, that is, published in the Official Journal of the Government, and sixty other projects are being evaluated. However, ladies and gentlemen, from all these investments only one has gone ahead. Why did this happen? Because there is a need for an integrated framework, without bureaucratic obstacles, which will strengthen the export orientation of production. This new framework is introduced by this draft law, taking into account good international practices, so that the Greek cannabis industry is organised more effectively and safely, to create new jobs, to simplify exports and to ensure the proper functioning of the market. First, a fundamental change in relation to the previous n. The final products of cannabis medicinal products are included in Table IV of drugs so that patients can obtain them from prescription pharmacys. The system of supply of the State monopoly in force to date is therefore repealed and provision is made for the direct disposal of finished products to pharmacies, pharmacopoeias, hospitals, private clinics under the control of the EEO. At the same time, it is planned to produce, store and transport propagating material, i.e. seeds, and also to promote the fact that the operation of an RES plant to meet the needs of the production plants is foreseen within the areas. I'm on my way to leave. Licences shall be uniform and shall not be transferred. The approval of the plants and the operation of the processing plants is also provided for in two stages. The Business and Business Parks Licensing Department of the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Development and Investment is designated as the competent authority for receiving approval applications, and for potential issues relating to applications and not regulated by this draft law, the relevant provisions of Law 3982/2011 to simplify the licensing of processing activities are applicable. The approval process is being improved and stability is being offered to investors. The authorisation shall be granted within 30 days of the submission of the application and shall be accompanied by a copy of a criminal record, a certificate of non- bankruptcy, attestations of tax and insurance information and a payment of an infringement. Within two months of approval, the establishments shall carry out autopsy by the competent authority to ensure that the actual conditions of the production and processing activity are established by living. The supporting documents shall be updated annually by 31 December each year. The approval of an installation shall be fixed at five years with the possibility of an extension to ten, and the approval of the units shall be valid for ten years respectively. In the event of a modification of the area, equipment, installations and safety measures, a new approval of an installation and an amendment of the approval of an operation shall be required. At the same time, there are important arrangements concerning the impediments of the persons concerned, the breach of the conditions for the approval, production and disposal of the finished products and the location of the farming and operation areas of the processors. Natural persons, legal persons and workers must not have been convicted or referred to for felony, theft, fraud, infidelity against the public and any crime against sexual freedom. In addition, where the terms and conditions for authorising the production and disposal of finished products are violated, the authorisation authority shall, in whole or in part, provide for a suspension of the processing activity or a fine ranging from EUR 1 000 to EUR 75,000. As regards the location, it is envisaged to grant a crop and processing permit to areas where processing and farming activities, with the exception of land of high productivity, are permitted, while building coefficients are determined in accordance with the law on the modernisation of spatial and urban legislation. As far as exports are concerned, the procedures are simplified, but there is absolutely no discount on the safety standards. First of all, the export of finished cannabis medicinal products is defined regardless of form without the specific approval of the EOF, but with the envisaged production permit. This authorisation shall be accompanied by the authorisation of the national authority of each destination, which shall be officially translated and accompanied by the necessary documents for the description, composition, composition, purpose of use of the products, a description of the production process and a fee in favour of the EEO of an amount of two and a half thousand euros plus four hundred euros per form and content. This eliminates the time-consuming procedure of the special approval. In particular, the export of finished products in the form of dry blossom is regulated. The EEO shall grant a licence for the production and export of finished cannabis medicinal products in the form of dry blossom packaging up to 30 grams, exclusively for medical and pharmaceutical purposes, irrespective of whether it is to be used as a final, intermediate or raw product in the exporting country. By means of these arrangements, processing activity in the country is expected to be supported, since export volumes will be limited and cannot be used by other processors abroad. In order to strengthen processing and to grant this licence, an application for a special marketing authorisation for a finished product in Greece must be submitted at the same time, however, in a different form from that of the dry blossom, and the agreement on the cannabis blossom with the general texts of the European and international pharmacopoeia must be substantiated by the applicant. Of course, the production of dry bloom involves conditions of enhanced safety, such as an enclosed neutral control zone for units, reinforced masonry, safety doors and, of course, a safe container. Furthermore, the draft law regulates the movement of finished cannabis medicinal products on the internal market and introduces important transitional and authorisational provisions. Final products intended for domestic consumption shall be placed on the market after the approval of the president of the Agency and their inclusion in Table IV of Article 1 of the Code of Drugs, without the opinion of the Committee on Drugs. The approval decisions, adopted until the entry into force of this Law, concerning establishments in high productivity land shall remain in force. The Ministers for Development, Finance, Citizen Protection, Health, Environment, Justice, Home and Rural Development may, by common decision, specify the terms and conditions of approvals for the establishment and operation of processing units, the submission of additional supporting documents, the level of the infringement, the storage specifications for the farmed areas, the export and import of propagating material, and the carrying out of checks on plants. At the recommendation of the President of the EOF, the Ministers for Finance and Health may adjust the anticipated charge, as well as the supporting documents relating to the export of dried-flower finished products. The General Accounting Office of the State estimates that there will be revenues on a regular basis both from the paradoxes of each investment and from the annual update of approvals and export fees. The major development perspective, however, is not a cash-pool, but a labour-intensive one, since, in order to promote the investment in question and to promote the processing units, it will be necessary, in addition to growers, farmers, chemicals, pharmacists and workers of other specialties. In conclusion, I should like to refer to two of the amendments. The amendment, with a general number of 889 and a special 70, provides for the immediate payment of all aid from the Public Investment Programme to gyms, children's homes, hospitality tourism and self-employed lawyers affected by the pandemic. These amounts are duty-free, unrestricted and inconsistent. The amendment, with a general number 895 and a special number 71, gives an extension of the deadline for objecting to the contents of the forest maps which are posted in 2021. This provision shall, on the one hand, provide sufficient time for the forest directorates to correct any errors which have arisen and, on the other, for the parties concerned to submit their objections accordingly. Forestry is a very big issue that employs a lot of people, almost half of Greece. These additions, together with the other articles in the amendments, are absolutely necessary and beneficial for economic activity and will, of course, be supported by the relevant ministers. In conclusion, this draft law has a clear developmental form. In a clear and organised way, the legal order is enriched by a set of provisions which will contribute practically to the establishment of a new industry whose development will have a multiplier effect on the economy. That is why a majority supports it and votes for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u9	The rapporteur for the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexandros Haritsis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today, in order to discuss another crucial bill under conditions that were unprecedented for the Greek society, but also for the Greek Parliament, conditions which were, of course, imposed by the pandemic, which we have been experiencing for more than a year, conditions which have led us to change our everyday lives and our way of life as a whole, our entire society, conditions which have imposed measures on Parliament's way of operating, but measures which have been selective. Because at the same time as the natural presence of Members of Parliament was limited and the vote was put in place with the power of the Parliamentary Groups, there was no suspension by the government for the adoption of critical bills which had nothing to do with the pandemic. These are bills which in many cases have caused and caused the reaction of society. Examples of examples: The bill a few months ago of the Ministry of Finance for the bankruptcy law. As a result, on 1 June the auctions and first homes are being released. The Ministry of Education bill for police at universities and the exclusion of about thirty thousand young people from higher education. The environmentally sound bill that has now given rise to reactions at European level, and just yesterday we voted on a loss-making vote for the parliamentary majority of the draft law on compulsory conspiracy that met the reaction of even the United Nations. All this was analysed in detail by the Chief of Officerial Response and President of SYRIZA. Our parliamentary representative said so a moment ago. They spoke about the abuse of the parliamentary procedure, which is, of course, a key issue of democracy, nothing less than that. Let me add to this and something that has to do with the bill we are debating today on the production and use of cannabis medicinal products. Indeed, what has happened - as far as I know - has not been a precedent, is an originality in parliamentary times. In a bill which was discussed at four long meetings in the Committee on Production and Trade, no one was found, nor a Member from the parliamentary majority to speak and support it. One hundred and fifty eight MPs from the New Democracy side were all absent. Well, that's all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u11	I for the hundred and fifty eight...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u12	Of course, now I come to you, Mr. Kelles. Thank you again for taking on the ungrateful role of the rapporteur and your goodness. Of course, it is also Mr Bukokouros who has taken over the role of the parliamentary representative today. Otherwise, I think we'd go for a Gina prize, have a bill from the government, without a majority rapporteur. There's no precedent for this. The secret armies of the MPs are waiting for a week to see them. Where are these secret armies of the MPs coming to support the bill, Mr. Bukkoro? But even the ministers of the government regularly avoid placing themselves in public and asking for what I hear and for journalists not to put the matter in their interviews so that they do not be embarrassed. Rather, they remain faithful to the logic and statements of previous years, of the SYRIZA government. It was loud, of course, - this is very serious, ladies and gentlemen of the majority - and the absence in the entire parliamentary procedure of the Ministry of Health, which is a State which is directly involved and has direct competence in this matter. He shone in his absence from all this conversation. So it seems to me, Mr Ministers - I am addressing Mr Papathanassis, but also Mr Georgiadis, who is not currently in the Chamber - that the clear admission on your part that the New Democracy's attitude as an opposition to this issue, as well as many others - I will then come back to it - was wrong. Your admission is therefore a voice of oxen in the wilderness. With their absence and their silence, your fellow ministers and Members of the New Democracy seem to be unconscious to this change of attitude. We are therefore wondering whether this bill has the approval of majority Members. And this theater of absurdity that we lived through all the previous days, which I described just now, we do not think it can continue. Members cannot hide and vote by a representative, by the secretary of their parliamentary group. Everyone, each and every one separately, must assume their responsibilities. That is why we are also calling for a roll-call vote at the beginning of the bill, because we believe that democracy cannot be suspended. As much as the government is trying to use pandemic to legislate with society as it is absent, we will be here to ensure the functioning of democracy and the representation of citizens in it. I now enter the bill: If today, ladies and gentlemen, we can talk to the Greek Parliament about the production and exploitation of medicinal cannabis products, if we can discuss how many patients will have access to their medicine, how the mechanisms of black money will be struck, how domestic investment will go ahead and access to a emerging global market, all of which happens because the SYRIZA Government in time and boldly opened the debate on an object, which until then was a taboo for the political system and the Greek society. We have created a clear legislative framework where nothing has been done for years. I see the then rapporteur for our bill here, the former Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, who had listened to the tenths that were then, when a working group was set up at the Ministry of Health for the medical use of cannabis and after extensive consultation and taking into account the views of the services and scientific bodies and in dialogue with the patient associations and the scientific community, the possibility of domestic production and final processing of cannabis medicinal products was institutionalised by Law 4523/2018. While we, the majority, have brought patients and their needs to the forefront, their right to safe medical treatment, the multiple benefits of cannabis for the economy, for investment, for the development of special scientific know-how, when we legislated to exploit the country's comparative advantages and set the foundations for creating a new domestic market with very important growth prospects, unfortunately, then the opposition, the then-class opposition - not to be unfair with other political forces - was literally destroying and sabotaged an innovative effort to create, of course, the necessary broader consensus. Unfortunately, all this was on the altar of small-party interests. You then exercised an opposition, which was slandering and darkening, deeply unscientific and, of course, completely obsolete. You were then talking about prelude to decriminating cannabis and well-known SYRIZA ideas. You accused us of attempting to turn the country into a messy-fruit, that our bill has the logic of the ferry and you described the investors concerned as drug dealers. In these circumstances, and in spite of all these unfavourable political circumstances, we have made progress. We have defined the framework within which productive investments can be made, cultivation, production, processing and disposal of cannabis medicinal products. That is why, at last, we can organise, coordinate, civilised, democratically speaking, the debate on patients and investment. The validity and innovatory nature of our legislative intervention have also been recognised by the operators in the process of hearing the bodies in our Commission, in the Committee on Production and Trade - which I think is extremely important - as it has been recognised that this 2018 intervention has given our country a competitive advantage at European level and has created a great investment interest. The evidence is revealing. We have tabled them to the committee. To be fair, and from the Ministry's side, the evidence was confirmed that several applications - seventy-seven applications - investment projects with a budget of EUR 852 million and five thousand anticipated new jobs had been submitted. Already during our administration, twenty-five companies had been licensed, ten more were at the final licensing decision stage and about thirty at the rating stage. Today, New Democracy as a government makes a hundred - eighty - degree turn. She's welcome, of course. The Minister for Development himself characterises our 2018 legislative initiative as an act of political bravery, as was, of course, the famous security pillow of 37 billion, as was done even more with the Prespes. We're talking about a spectacular precipitation on the New Democracy side. We welcome New Democracy to the real world. But it is worth seeing what has happened over the last two years. The answer, unfortunately, is almost nothing. I'm talking about this particular case of cannabis. It has delayed the adoption of the required ministerial decisions and, above all, with responsibility, to be fair, not of the Ministry of Development, but of the Ministry of Rural Development, of the CRL for the determination of the types and technical specifications for the manufacture of greenhouse gases, so that licensed undertakings are not able to manufacture the approved type of greenhouse. The result of this was that the competitive advantage created for our country towards other European countries was lost. We are now in a more difficult position in international competition and, in particular, behind countries such as Portugal, Malta, Denmark, countries, namely - I would point out the specific countries - which were based on our own framework, in our Greek context of 2018, in order to shape theirs and today have become dominant on the European market. With delays and recurring events you have thus undermined an extremely profitable and open investment instrument in the future. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, this bill is based on and exploited by the legislative framework established by SYRIZA. However, it goes hand in hand and, indeed, after this typical delay of the whole two years, while the European market has matured and at the moment you know that from us you will not face slandering, as we have seen in the past, but essential, constructive criticism. So we should be talking today about a more advanced draft law that meets the expectations of patients, investors' expectations and goes hand in hand with international developments, especially since, as you say, you have studied and cases - it has been said in the committee - in other countries. In particular, you are giving the possibility of granting a production licence only to export finished cannabis medicinal products in the form of a dry blossom, instead of making it easier, you are now creating barriers to domestic investments, first and foremost by depriving domestic production units with relevant know-how of the right to invest in the production of a finished product, since they cannot be supplied by Greek production units. At the same time, you create very strict conditions for exports with the famous demand of thirty grams for dry blossom exports. Of course, here we are waiting to see and today if there is a development on the part of the Minister on this issue. It is particularly critical, knowing that our competitors in other countries are moving in far greater quantities. In addition, in order for producers to obtain an export licence for dry blossoms, they should apply for a specific authorisation for the marketing of a finished product in Greece in a different form of that dried blossom. Such an obligation, in our view, constitutes an excessive interference and prevents the implementation of investment projects. I note that the provision for exporting exclusively of nuts does not seem to go hand in hand with current international developments, since at this juncture the evidence shows that international export destinations are beginning to turn their attention to medicinal products, such as oil, slowing down exports for dried hemp. Finally, you are abolishing - we have not yet received a convincing answer from the Ministry - the possibility of setting up a high-quality drug cannabis facility. In short, and so that I do not go far what you give in one hand, you take it with the other, effectively dealing with the medicinal cannabis in a dubious and fearful way, and at the same time, unfortunately - although we should not - specific incentives have been announced for companies which invest in this sector, such as development law or other financial support programmes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for one or two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, we have listened very carefully to the positions of the stakeholders at their hearings, the patient associations, the representatives of the cannabis pharmaceutical companies, the scientific bodies involved in the matter. Unlike your own tactic, which as an opposition you have turned a sensitive issue into a field of speculative confrontation with obsolete terms of previous decades and prioritising the use of our competitive advantages for domestic-value production, we also tabled amendments to this draft law, which we believe would take it forward, that they would create a more forward institutional framework. We have tabled an amendment to Article 14 for the production of finished cannabis products both in the form of dry flowers and extracts, which are at great demand on the world market, with the removal of the 30 gram restriction on the dry flowers packaging, allowing the disposal of flowers and extracts to the domestic industry to produce synergies with the Greek drug industry. We have also proposed the abolition of paragraph 2, which requires the producer to submit an application for a product of another kind than the one for dried flowers. Finally, with the amendment to Article 11, we have asked that cannabis processing and processing plants should be allowed to be set up on high productivity land at the same rate as the PV law. We are proving with our interventions, with these amendments, in practice the importance we attach to this economic activity, primarily for the benefit of patients - I will say more about patients and, if I may - for the benefit of the country's development perspective and its harmoniousness with modern international practices. If these amendments were accepted, we could really talk about a much more substantial and promoted institutional framework. Our presence in the House will always be guided by being useful to the majority of Greek society. That's what we're interested in. Although you had understood this role of opposition in previous years, today we would be discussing a completely different basis, from a much better base. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u13	Until the Step is cleared, and because I see it in front of me, in the face of all our dear Kostas Scandalidis, we wish many years to all my fellow Members and fellow Members who celebrate and all the celebrities and celebrities of the House, officials, Parliamentary representatives of the media. [[Applause]] Mr Scandalidis and Mr Marcus - who I have just seen you for many years! If any other party intends to apply for a roll-call vote, please the services of this House to testify now - it is Friday - so that the bodies can come out in time, not to waste time at the last minute. Thank you. The reason is now the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. "I couldn't believe that five drops of cannabidiol a day would make such a huge difference. This oil is not a substance, it is a help," said Helen, who has been suffering for eleven years from chronic neuropathic pain. "I have been suffering from Crohn's disease twenty-one years now. I've done thirteen intestinal surgery and thirty-four nursings with final ileus. A pain physical and mental. Since my life, CBD 10%, I have been counting today a hundred fifty days without pains without giving but most important of all fifty days without pains, without insomnia, but most of all fifty days without Traumeel and pethidine," says Mary forty years. "Unfortunately, the world finds it difficult to understand the medical application of the plant. He thinks you're doing this for entertainment reasons. But look what they say a lot of research," it says cancerous, making use of cannabis oil and leaving a stake of paper from various large research centres abroad on the table. These, ladies and gentlemen, and hundreds of other testimonies of patients suffering from chronic persistent pain, especially cancer-related pain, degenerative diseases, neuropathy, spasm, multiple sclerosis, neurological tremor, seizures and others, many, dozens, hundreds of painful situations that find relief from cannabis medicinal products could only fill today's session and convince all those who deliberately distort the contents of the impression debate. But it was not enough to convince the Members of the New Democracy three years ago to vote for the institutional framework, which would allow the production of finished cannabis products in our country and their disposal, for medical purposes. They voted against it by poisoning the public debate - that remains - with incredible expressions, which I am sure they too would like to forget today. This is a framework which, to be honest, came in a hurry, without full treatment, was incomplete and, as it proved to be ineffective, since it is too much the adequate number of seventy applications and twenty approvals, once an investment has started to date. We, as a movement of change, had then voted in favour of this framework by stressing its obvious weaknesses and inefficiency, for which we have unfortunately been confirmed. But today's bill, despite the individual improvements it brings, does not constitute an integrated framework, since it leaves no room for manoeuvre and much more does not encourage the creation of local machinery for processing, packaging and handling on an industrial scale, while the industrial cannabis, which could be an important new crop for our farmers, is out of place. This draft law does not refer to production methods, quality assurance systems, when other European countries are already more ahead of investment and research, but also to facilitating the provision of medicinal products. It is a bill, which does not favour synergies with the domestic pharmaceutical industry and research institutions, but is exhausted in simply facilitating the establishment of companies, with the sole aim of exporting products. Positive, but not enough, Minister. While steps are being taken to liberalise the disposal and supply of products to the general public by entering pharmacies and private clinics, we are afraid that patients' access to a satisfactory range of preparations on the domestic market will remain very limited. This, in our view, is the main weakness if not today's bill, the overall institutional framework for cannabis medicinal products, namely that there is no framework for the people with whom I started my speech, the patients, who will again have limited access to medicinal cannabis products and who will continue to supply relief products illegally, as they have rightly emphasised in the hearing. Thus, a patient suffering from chronic painful situations will still need to travel to the countries of the European Union, where there is the institutional framework for free disposal, or who will still have to pay a fortune to obtain these preparations, or even criminally persecuted because he finds relief in the medicine cannabis. This, despite the fact that while the existing framework at European Union level is not uniform, there is a resolution from 2019 that urges a common policy between Member States, with a view to the adequate availability of medicines. The formulations of cannabis medicinal products have been legally prescribed in many countries for many years, but not in Greece, since no legally justified request has yet been issued for the use of cannabis medicinal product. So we have to agree in this Chamber that we need clarification of the context of specific diseases and specialities, a patient card and access to legal formulas on the domestic market, which I am sure would give an incentive to production units, but also to the Greek pharmaceutical industry. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about cannabis medicine, we are talking about a plant with high added value, which creates a great deal of profits worldwide for the economies. Most of all, however, we are talking about a natural product that can be used to relieve human suffering in a multitude of very widespread diseases in our time. This is the dimension that we have put, we put and we will put in the debate and also in the dialogue we wish and hope that it will be opened from now on, a dimension which has fortunately been set by the other wings of this House, by all the institutions and by the patients. Let's go to the bill and partial remarks. I told the committee too: How do investments unlock when they remain two licensing stages for approval and operation instead of being simplified? This is perhaps done automatically with the suffocating deadlines that in practice abolish the effective control, which we all agree is very critical, at least at a preventive level? Should the export of medicinal raw materials and active ingredients not be allowed in different forms, so that there is no restriction on products in the form of dry flowers only? Does this help investors, favours exporters, and limiting the 30 gram packaging to 30 grams? For us, the main parameter is the environmental, but also the energy footprint of these crops. It is right to provide, Minister, for such facilities to be banned in high productivity land - we have welcomed this - since these cannabis crops are based on water resources and do not require areas of fertile land. You, however, allow the transitional provisions for the extension of existing units - which are not very few in number - to high productivity land, as well as to existing applications. So, in practice you are undoing this direction of the bill. Perhaps there should also be a restriction on the extension of high-quality land to existing installations, but with certain limits. Otherwise, you understand that there has to be a conspiracy expansion, perhaps, on uncontrolled ground of high productivity. Nor should it be converted from optional to compulsory, at least for a percentage, the installation of a renewable energy power plant, once these crops are energy-efficient and the power-generating mix varies from region to region? A deficit, not of this bill, but of the overall institutional framework is the absence of a National Cannabis Organisation, which I think is aggregation of the parties - at least those who understand the need to use cannabis - agree and is a demand for all operators and we obviously endorse it. Because today, as a matter of fact, the EEO remains responsible for controls and authorisations, while all procedures, from licensing, farming control - in cooperation with the geotechnics who are completely absent from the provisions of this draft law and from all procedures - until the monitoring of imports and exports, the circulation of preparations on the Greek market, the strengthening of research, the awareness of the medical world and of the citizens, all this framework of action should be passed on from this national body. I retain and consider it positive that the Deputy Minister, Mr Papathanassis, has committed himself to the immediate establishment of this agency, but also to the completion of the institutional framework, always, of course, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. In all the ministries of the Ministry of Development, unfortunately, the tradition of the amendments which have nothing to do with the bill, which even come in the form of amendments - mosaics, which are introduced in an amendment by different ministries, which do not allow us to say in our final vote if we are finally in agreement with what monologues. Let's go now - very soon - to the amendment with a general number of 889 and a special 70. Article 2 should put in place safeguards capable of protecting the fate of the data, as GFCM is allowed to provide data to other registers held electronically by credit, financial and other institutions operating economic behaviour data files. In Articles 3 and 4, you are right to introduce duty-free, unrestricted and inappropriate allowances, to be granted to firms affected by NSRP programmes. This, Minister, seems to me to emerge from the reality, that thousands of businesses are currently in debt and debt to taxi, insurance funds and the banking system. In less than ten days the bankruptcy law begins, seizures begin, and then the auctions follow. Payment orders have already been issued. I said this to the committee today: you cannot, at the time when you are introducing aid for focusing operations, announcing aid for tourism businesses, you say that you are thinking of moving towards liquidity programmes for retailers with an emphasis on clothing and footwear, leaving all these businesses, which you recognise are affected and indeed need liquidity and economic aid, which is defenceless in seizures and auctions. There must be a single strategy here. If the government as a whole considers that the trade, entrepreneurship sectors are affected and need financial support, or through the provisions we are going through today, it should also be protected from the enforcement measures which, in less than ten days, will be unpleasantly surprised by thousands of professionals, entrepreneurs, traders and our fellow citizens. The Ministerial Decision of the Ministry of Finance was also signed No 468/2021, of course, on aid to enterprises because of COVID-19, involving shops and businesses in shopping centres, in discounted villages, or in shops of the ‘installation shop’ type. However, for pure tourist shops in areas, as they say is the center of Athens and Plaka, there is hardly any welfare, since only 10% is covered, while in these cases the drop in turnover exceeds 90%. We shall now proceed to Amendment No 895 and to Amendment No 71 by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, which follows on from the public position of the Prime Minister himself, following the reactions from the posting of forest maps in many areas, particularly in Crete. What are you doing with this amendment? With Article 1, you shall extend a period of six months for the areas in which the suspension takes place within 2021. Very good, positive, right, you'll get time. Do you solve the major problems that forest map procedures have caused throughout the country? The answer is: no. So what do you say in the amendment? You say that in two months the obvious errors should have been examined and entered into the forest maps. But is it possible, when there are hundreds of thousands of objections throughout the country? Only in Elias are there at the moment ten thousand objections and the process has been frozen for a year and a half. So how magically, then, they're gonna be...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u15	Hey, good for you, Michael, don't tie it up in two months! Let's go, let's go!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u16	But that is why I am saying, Mr President, that this amendment is empty. There are also many other issues, because at the moment the issue of forest maps is a bomb for the property of thousands of our fellow citizens. Will you allow those who have not been able to object to it, so that they do not lose their assets? Why is it that decisions are delayed by the opposition committees, which have already been taken, have not been posted, and the owners are unable to take advantage of their assets? What are you going to do with the redemption procedure, which has been frozen since the decision of the Council of State? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Can you assure us today, from this Stepma, farmers and farmers whose properties are in these so-called 'grey zones', that they will not be in danger of returning the subsidies they have received for areas which are declared agricultural, but are questioned by the suspension of forest maps? So all these are issues which are still pending and the government should finally make a serious policy on forest maps and speed up procedures and serve forest services. In the same amendment, Article 6 - although this is truly ironic - provides for the possibility of bringing parts into circulation on two sub- motorways, on the 'E-65' and on the 'Olympia road' with the Patras - Tower section, which is still pending. We for the Patras tower have taken no response from the Ministry to tell about the timetables and procedures. Mrs Westager came in a week ago and we read that the Patras Tower section was on the subject of the debate. However, there was no placement by the Prime Minister and the relevant ministers with specific timetables. With regard to the part concerning Article 2, Mr President, I shall conclude, which concerns the granting of aid to the Greek State to ENERGEAN OIL & GAS, it should have come as an article of law. We believe that workers' safety controls should be introduced, because on the basis of the company's operational plan, which has to be supported, eighty redundancies are envisaged. We consider it unacceptable and unacceptable that a company which is aided, even with a state guarantee, should be allowed to dismiss workers. However, because this company, ladies and gentlemen, has been mining in various parts of the country and because, for a year and a half, environmental conditions for mining have been pending, for example, in Catalonia, I really wonder if there is a will from the government, the Ministry of the Environment, to move this whole context forward. Ladies and gentlemen, the financial benefits of investing in cannabis in a market that in Europe exceeds EUR 50 billion are evident. The benefits for thousands of our fellow citizens are even more obvious, who, as patients, seek medicine cannabis for therapeutic or relief reasons. For all these reasons, it is clear that the Change Movement is voting in favour of the bill at first, despite the fact that it does not set as solid conditions as it should be for the development of a strong industrial and export base. We reiterate the need to immediately complete the institutional framework with an emphasis on patients' rights, because for us in PASOK, ladies and gentlemen, the saying of Andreas Papandreou on 'human development' remains current. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Catherine. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that once Mr Arsenis, in other words the speaker, has finished, the Minister will take the floor for a few minutes to present the amendments. I say this so that the speakers and the parliamentary representatives are also aware of it. Afterwards, he has asked and will be given the floor by the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Koutsoubas and we will continue with the list, which has twenty-three Members in total, ten from the New Democracy, ten from the SYRIZA and three from the other parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, if Mr Koutsoubas wants to take the lead, I have no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u19	All right, we'll see it at that time. If he's in the Chamber, he'll be ahead. The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr George Lambroulis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. The Communist Party of Greece is voting against the bill and we call for it to be withdrawn, as was the case at the first meeting in the committee responsible. This is because it is not a bill that comes to serve and solve popular problems and needs, but to serve and facilitate investment and profitability of entrepreneurs and groups, as well as of companies associated with them. It is part of the overall efforts of the urban states in the European Union to facilitate the cannabis market, demonstrating the common strategy of the New Democracy - SYRIZA and the Change Movement, namely the joint support strategy for the capitalist economy and the profitability of business groups in areas such as cannabis, which choose to invest the ponds in order to gain profits. In addition, economic staff within and outside the European Union estimate that it is a rapidly growing, thriving and profitable sector in the world industry, which is estimated for Europe alone, by 2028, that profits will reach around EUR 115 billion, whether it is the pharmaceutical cannabis or euphoric and industrial. We disagree precisely with this policy that all governments have been applying to date, turning the carpet to each other. It is a policy that translates into profitable investment for business groups, but which requires low wages, flexible labour relations, the abolition of eight hours with the "law-raising" that you bring, land uses that affect investment, minimum taxation on large capital, strong state support for investment, abolition of collective agreements and limitation of trade union action and, of course, the necessary measures to suppress the people's movement and others. Even the argument of extroversion in the economy is kalphic and disorientative that investment will allegedly be made in Greece, profits will come, jobs will be created and more that we have heard and described in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, when, with the logic of extroverting to the economy that you went to the bankrupt by all the governments, you have undermined and undermined the country's productive potential. But what kind of jobs does the vision of extroversion create? The answer can be given by workers, for example, to tourism with poorly paid and flexible jobs, which support the huge profitability of groups such as hotels, shipowners, airlines, tour operators and so on. Today the Government of New Democracy comes, taking over the spoon from the SYRIZA government, and forms the institutional and legal framework for the production, processing and marketing of hemp in our country, opening dangerous roads to the cultivation of narcocultura and the prospect of decriminalising production and use. For example, in the new elements of the bill, the limit of tetrahydrocannabinol for products intended for export is released. The EEO will be able to approve cannabis products intended for export, irrespective of their therapeutic indications, baptising whatever is exported for the sake of investors’ profits. Of course, nowhere is there any mention of monitoring contraindications, of pharmacological vigilance, of the necessary quality control procedures, as defined by the marketing of medicinal products. In addition, everything is done without the opinion of the Committee on Drugs already in force under the SYRIZA law. Accordingly, export authorisation will be granted under the minimum possible conditions in the standards of the procedure applicable to generic medicinal products, while the cost of the licence and installation will be the astronomical amount of EUR 2,500 and something. However, where you are ‘supporting change’ to help entrepreneurs is, for example, the provision in Article 5, where an installation authorisation is granted no later than 30 days, even without an autopsy of the relevant services. 'Wet, snow', that is, since it is a capitalist investment, the approval is given by fast track procedures. However, when it comes to measures to alleviate and improve the needs of the people, such as health, which our people have been living in the worst of this tragic period of the last year's pandemic, then you find blockages, of course, invoking the legislative framework which all of you have shaped over time through your legislative interventions. The approval of an operation under Article 6 shall also be granted without an autopsy following it and within two months of it. Of course, we are not amazed at these two-stage forecasts, namely the adoption of an installation and the approval of an operation, since they are governed by the general logic of entrepreneurial facilities that all governments have adopted, in a faithful manner, by the recommendations of the OECD, the World Bank and the other imperialist organisations. In fact, the facilities you make go far enough to allow a company to export a cannabis product for treatment abroad, even if this product has not been authorised for circulation in Greece by the EEO, provided that there is a decision by the competent authority of the State in which the import is to be made from Greece. But behind the word "promotion" there is still one side: The explicit definition that the final product of medicinal cannabis, which the law of SYRIZA invested with a veil of ambiguity, can also be the dry blossom. In other words, with the bogeyman of the law, the public hashish is being baptized "medicine". This is a step in the right direction. The next step, therefore, is perhaps to allow both the circulation of hashish as a medicine, with various justifications, whether this concerns, for example, the loss of added value from the product produced or that it is reimported and gone by saying. So, what does the government try and achieve? To catch a couple of birds with a hammer! In other words, in the name of the investor facility, it removes obstacles and elasticises the overall framework governing the use of the hashis. At the same time, it becomes clear that this bill will be further exploited in the direction of total decriminalisation of cannabis for personal use, investing it with a medically clear cloak. To confirm this - we do not say at random - it is good not to forget, firstly, the international experience of this issue, as well as the studies that exist, because in a number of European Union countries, as in various states in the United States of America, medical use of cannabis has been a vehicle for complete liberalisation, arguing that individual culture can contribute to the supply of cheap and quality cannabis by those who need it. And secondly, in the hearing - it is good to remember - together with the credit you received from the entrepreneurs, investors, the new Republic and SYRIZA, they demanded, if you like, the decolonisation. So, for example, the President of the Cannabis Pharmaceuticals Association, representing twenty-two Greek and foreign companies, observed that companies would not be able to convince foreigners who have a patient to take our products when they have not been made available here and when US states, Canada, Uruguay and recently Switzerland have legalised cannabis entertainment. Or the memorandum submitted by the Cannabis Counsellor, represented in the committee by its consultant, which states that the decriminating of the possession of cannabis for personal use, as has now been done in many foreign countries, would solve many problems in the implementation of the legislation on pharmaceutical and industrial use in Greece. Therefore, only accidentally is the effort of both the New Democracy and SYRIZA, which pre-paganises the business groups with anti-scientific views about the misunderstood plant and the pharmaceutical properties of the cannabis, opinions that are in full measure with the principles of rational drug planning and pharmacovigilance, once you raise a plant to a medicine, moving towards the lifting of the bans, its production and use. In fact, it proves once again the size of your hypocrisy and that you are not ashamed to invoke human pain when you want to pass your plans. We have also told the committee - since you are all cut off, or at least those who will vote for the bill, as you say, for patients, their health problems, what have you done so far, since 2013? It's been eight years. Indeed, from what we have heard from the Deputy Minister in the committee, it may take another five years until there is a preparation. Total thirteen years. So after five years. So why have you not achieved this objective for so many years? In other words, the production of medicinal products from the constituents of cannabis to be used by patients, but even through the introduction of preparations in order for patients to use these medicines on the basis of the suggestions - the direction of scientists. You're making fun of the world. You did not do so because you are not allowed to do so by the system you are serving, and this proves to be abundantly the period of pandemic, with the unspeakable public health system as a result of your anti-grassroots policy and the measures that all governments have put forward to date, in order to serve capitalist growth, in which it reigns the profit criterion, while the popular need and the right to health and life protection are treated as an unacceptable cost from the state and the capital that this serves. This, then, is the exploitation system you serve. In the case of investments, i.e. maximisation of the profits of business groups, entrepreneurs, processes are moving at a speed of light. But when it comes to satisfying social people's needs, we go at turtle rate. In fact, your strategic engagement of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, but also of the other urban parties and your precursor and struggling to serve the interests of the groups, is forcing you not only to agree and convene, but even those who once exchanged vulgar expressions now to deposit them with honorary even comments. We have heard this in committee too. So here's how the so-called separatist lines between SYRIZA's maintenance and progress disappear and the masks of the clashes fall, because it turns out that progress for both SYRIZA and the New Democracy is the capitalist competition for profit, which crushes workers and popular strata, is bleeding peoples. We saw it recently in Palestine, but also here, in our neighborhood, in the south-eastern Mediterranean and not just in the south-eastern Mediterranean. So this is your vision and your realism. On the one hand, billions for groups and on the other, poverty, pain, exploitation and impoverishment for the peoples. In order to cover up your strategic partnership, what are you doing? Consider whether the investments will be made in high productivity land or not, as if the main and only goal of investment and investor, which is its profitability, whether the land is used for chassis cultivation or for photovoltaics, will be changed. But - we have also put this in committee - we have not heard of these closed businesses in which it is intended to be done, to build up investments and the greenhouses that will be founded, in what circumstances will the workers work? Because we all know very well under what terrible conditions workers work in greenhouses with the blessings of the governments concerned. So we say it again, once again, that the substance of the bill is that it integrates the fodder, the buckle into the finished products of the medicinal cannabis. What the SYRIZA bill lets Nea Democracy come and clears it up with the bill, which you are voting on with the Change Movement. Next step, as the Minister said at the first meeting of the committee, allow the disposal of dry blossom and for domestic disposal. That will be the evolution of things and that's where you're going the whole thing. The bucket will spread and maybe see in the future and no PDO guarantee in the domestic hashish. So, the only thing for sure is that in the face of the profitable prospects and the business of a handful of cannabis exploiters you put mental and physical health at even greater risk, even the lives of young people in our country. For precisely in the system you serve, in capitalism, the use of cannabis, while exploiting it by a handful of exploiters for profit by pressing on to the human pain that is traded, and the psychoactive side effects of this treatment will help to create a drug-drug society in the name of dealing with various diseases. Today there are - and that is why we are fighting for, in the Communist Party - the objective conditions for a different path of development, which has as a criterion the social needs and not the profitability of capitalists, where the real producers of wealth will enjoy the most of the achievements of science, technology, will be able to meet their ever-growing needs as a whole, as on the medicine. A condition? The abolition of business activity by socialisation of monopolies and the medicine and the organisation of the economy and production on the basis of the scientific central planning, where the operation of a state drug body is planned and organised for research, production, import and disposal of quality and effective medicines, vaccines, free of charge for all those who need them in a modern state and free health system. We therefore vote against the bill and call for it to be withdrawn. As far as the amendments are concerned, Mr President, we will have the possibility of putting them on the left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u21	The commemorative colleague Mr. Konstantinos Boubas is invited along with our wishes by a special speaker from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u22	Thank you for your wishes, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the painlessness of the breast, because it is painless, it is soothing. It's not a medicine. It could be otherwise prescribed as a medicine. The money's a lot, and it's a few and a subsidisation. It is said that the National Strategic Reference Framework, up to 2027, invests in agri-food. If we were to make an action plan for agricultural products, for healing herbs, which we in the Greek Solution - Mr Georgiadis described it as nonsense, and we will see this later with aromatic herbs - with the same courage, the same organization in marketing for olive oil, for herbs, for helmets, myrtles, basil, beeswax, which are healing, we would really have done wonders in brand name - to use this term - and in the whole processing and packaging. Because the NSRF is investing in processing and feeding. But here, they are going to leave enough subsidies in Indian cannabis and I do not know what is left of the reserves. Because this is where it says, on 22 April 2021, we will submit it in the Minutes - 'Pharmaceutical cannabis subsidies of up to 55% in investments' since they are part of the Development Law. The Development Law other than what does it say? Tax exemption, grant, leasing subsidy, cost subsidy for jobs and a maximum amount of the subsidy up to EUR 10 million. Now, according to the Secretariat-General for Industry, ninety-four approvals have been granted. Actually, it's about a unit in Corinthia's Emilia. TIKUN EUROPE is of Israeli interest and is a subsidiary. Her seat is in Israel. The Israelites are doing their job, but this Israel satellite company is. From that point on, there are these key points of the bill and there are great business to be done. Because here there are units that are licensed and are in construction and the date, gentlemen, is 12-5-2021, but below the twenty-five companies that have been licensed to manufacture cannabis from an official site, which we will submit in the Minutes, are 2-7-2019. When did elections take place? It's a few days before the poll. So, gentlemen of the Government, New Democracy, you had obligations in contracts signed on SYRIZA to continue this entire marketing of Indian cannabis. They are the first twenty-fifth companies to obtain permission to manufacture cannabis medication. Where's the special speaker, Mr. Kelles? 'TIKUN EUROPE', I said, is of Israeli interest. ‘BIOMECANN’, be careful, is based in Larissa. Estimated investment EUR 9.5 million with fifty-one employees. ‘BIOPROCANN’ in Corinth and goes by saying. Why am I saying it? Does BIOMECANN, Mr. Kella, owe Larissa or does she not owe? I see her on the twenty-five companies list. I know he dropped some cannons there because the company owes more than a million euros. What companies are licensed for cannabis medicinal products? Another forty-three is here in the file. Then we'll go to the rest. The point is, there's a blurred scenery against a Balkan, which suddenly came the ostrich to invest in the Indian cannabis. In Albania we have plantations, gangs, production. That's where the euphoric is. We'll have the medicine. The Bulgarians will have the food, because Bulgaria is the only European Union country that put it in food. Mr Zaev, who we welcomed a few days ago, said that euphoric cannabis in his country would be legalised in Skopje by the type of Amsterdam. There our youth will go by the name you handed over, have Macedonian entertainment, drink and sing. We're a nice Haymon Peninsula. We're the crunch Balkans. Let's go down. Tetrahydrocannabinol by 2%. But there are ambiguities. There is, of course, Annex 4 of the United Nations Organization, which will not have the question of criminalisation. In other words, we start with light jumping to make the market more free. But there's another multinational in the Netherlands, it's BEDROCAN, and I'm very afraid we won't make Greece Greek. BEDROCAN has been accused of carteling in Indian cannabis prices from the Netherlands. In other words, perhaps, as the facts show - because there are cartels and these trasts - we cannot also price the export product we will have in Greece, the famous Indian cannabis or marijuana or hashish because they are derivatives. Once the rebetish songs, which were persecuted, were true of the soothing of pain and breasts. From there on, then, for these vertically integrated units there are many ambiguities. What investors will invest? Will there be cooperation with strange NGOs in relation to Article 1? We cannot be opposed, please, to the Greek Solution, because this possibility of cultivating and producing finished cannabis products in processing plants for the purposes of direct disposal may open the door to some strange companies that will operate satelliteally in price formation and to all this infamous export product. With regard to some other economic elements, which are in Mr Villard's scientific fields, it is said that Europe expects 115 billion revenues by 2028. The 55.2 billion will be from medicine. 60.3 billion will be from euphorics. So euphoric in this traffic that concerns us because it can be uncontrolled, it has more profits, you get it and travel, but it has a great impact. I'm not saying, multiple sclerosis, cancer in the last stages, but it's a breast pain. The issue is these people, do we exclude them from any other therapeutic methods that we have to go to? Because a medicine must actually be created. But what are you doing here? Are you baptizing a breast painkiller as a medicine in what sense? Because it's the easy solution. It has other branches to spread and open for the vendals as far as their goods are concerned. The medicine is not the same. It's for a certain purpose. I remember some old report in Larissa. There's been a good job for the Indian cannabis. If you only wanted patients, you could have specific acres cultivated for a specific purpose. This is where Ventalia opens in the Balkans. And you, based on the dates I see you seem to have an obligation on all of this with the previous SYRIZA government in terms of permits. Now, is the entire mandate given by the Minister and State Secretary for Rural Development for the construction of greenhouses again? It's Article 4. He finds us opposing. By joint decision of Minister and State Secretary for Rural Development and not by transparent and objective procedures, greenhouses will be authorised. Shouldn't there be a certain group of specialists who give the permission? Then you talk about the approval of the National Medicines Agency. So what? Do you know how many preparations today are on the market - something carnitines, meats - which are simply saying "EO's Notification"? You know, it's marketing the whole story. Another "recognition" and another "research and approval" of a National Medicines Agency. Notification means that it is not unlawfully moved. But has he been inspected in depth to see the effects he may have on health? That is why we say that there are some terminology - to say this - as far as the approval or authorisation of the EEO is concerned about the construction of the greenhouse. From there on, I have brought some studies of people here talking about the healing herbs, about the wealth and treasure of Greece. They can confront this study you show in order to trade the Indian cannabis and be an exportable brand name from Greece and I do not know which foreign countries it will go to. From there on, we go a little bit to Article 9, where there are some hindrances, for which we are conditional on the fact that the legislator must introduce clear provisions and not that there are gaps or ambiguities in the law for which the courts will decide. It is a legislative ambiguity as regards the institutions referred to in Article 109 of Law 4622/2019. And we have these doubts, which is why we are opposed to all the commercialization that is going to happen. We said Article 13 of the FAO President, who can grant a production licence for products intended exclusively for export without special marketing authorisation. Article 14 refers to a production licence only for export in dry blossom form. Similarly, the words ‘regardless of their therapeutic indications’. Listen, this is where money will be moved from ponded capital to trade. They say we'll have so many acres in different geographical compartments in the country. Territorial studies have been carried out? Do not think that what we think is environmentally friendly does not cause problems. For example, the photovoltaics with the heating that they create in the ground - we are talking about the multitude, because, for what is happening in Greece, we are after all exaggerating - create soil problems. Will the specific crop that you consider to be panacea in terms of its export character cause soil problems in fields? Tell us, because some study offices put some doubts on the whole process. In Article 16 you are talking about importing and exporting propagating raw materials. Currently, it is possible to extract and propagative material. He also decided to use the propagating material. That's why I'm saying Ventalia opens up. We also have reservations about Article 17, of course, concerning the adoption, as we have said, of the EEO. In Article 19, where it regulates what is to be done with the approval decisions that have been adopted, it could be said that part of it creates an adverse measure, as a regulatory act adopted in the article may not apply if it has been repealed or amended. You continue, of course, with the other articles, as with Article 20 in the final provisions. With regard to the production and export of hemp - we must mention that it is known for the therapeutic properties - its use is focused, among other things, on treating rare forms of epilepsy or is used in people with multiple sclerosis. But, although many inquiries have been carried out, opposing opinions have also been given. I mean, there are different myths in the whole situation. There's the other side. For example, the American Academy of Paediatrics in 2015 expressed its opinion and said “I am opposed to the legalisation of cannabis medicine”. The Italians say 'La gioia citrova l' atra riva', that is, there is the other side, which is opposed to therapeutic properties. They're probably not healing, masturbating, soothing, painkilling. Don't go crazy! Pasino is in the final stage. I'm not saying, people have to ease their pain, but it's not a medicine. Now, contrary to what the Minister said, we in the Greek Solution think that Greece's wealth is aromatic plants, and that's what he said to us that it's nonsense, I have brought here some of the studies from rural sites that say that the herbs in Greece, gentlemen, want China, America, Germany, because it's one of the best. Thirteen types of aromatic plants already can raise the sector - I will put it in the Minutes - and on the opposite side of the companies that want to get the treatment of Indian cannabis, I quote Greek companies that have a positive mark in their balance sheet, which, please, have dealt with the healing Greek herbs, such as the flower of Darwin, which has a yield of 5,000 euros per acre! Mr. Kachrimanis has taken it from Metsovo, which is my roots, has taken it to the Ioannina Valley and the first investigations began to see the results from "ELGA DIMITRA". [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Boubas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Mr. Apostolos said that SYRIZA created something in Thermi of Thessaloniki with genetic material, but the only seed bank in Greece today - may, Mr. Apostolos, have created this - is in Samos "The Archipelagos". They have lost seeds in Greece because we did not intend to create a seed bank. So, Mr. Georgiadis, we shouldn't be satellites from the others. You know, with counselor Karanika, don't make Tanganica country. I have nothing with the lake of Africa. I have the Tanganica country, which was a colony until 1964 before going to Tanzania. I say this as a form of oxymotor, because we should not go into the lobby of some big companies, such as the Dutch, which would form a cartel with regard to the Indian cannabis - breasts - marijuana, because rebettas were saying something and something they knew since the '30s when all this was hunted. Do not enter a marketing that will not lead us anywhere and lose the wealth and treasure of aromatic herbs, such as Darwin's flower or the crocodile in Kosani, which has done a very systematic job with the companies I will quote. So, do not underestimate the healing herbs and say that in the Greek Solution, as you told me in committee, it touches the limits of nonsense, because I will close with a rebetiko in 1936 by Markos Vamvakaris: “With pain and suffering, life has endured me. All together and lost only with the hashish" Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u23	Good. At the moment, in the depth of Ethiopia is the commemorative President of the Parliament. Mr. Tasouula, on behalf of all many years. [[Applause]] Mr. Criton Arsenis, special speaker of Mera25, has the floor. We are closing with Mr Arsenis the speeches of the rapporteurs and speakers. As we have said, the Minister and Mr Koutsubas follow and then colleagues. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Parliamentarians and MPs, ministers, summarizing, this bill concerns companies from the US, Israel and Canada who buy land in Greece to cultivate a crop that requires too much water - much more than sinful cotton - huge amount of energy, since lamps are used to achieve this four-fold production every year, four crops and all in glasshouses with the well-known conditions of employment and exploitation, to export a raw material for pharmaceutical products that will be produced elsewhere and which so far is forbidden to be used by the Greek patients who need it. If this isn't colonial, what is it? In fact, SYRIZA asks for an extension and authorisation to be cultivated in high productivity land, displacement of edible crops in the century of climate change and in the country without food self-sufficiency. Now that the climate is falling apart, our environment, as we know it is falling apart, allow New Democracy and SYRIZA to cultivate the cultivation of medicinal cannabis, without any obligation to save water, to resuscitate water, for all unequivocally in such an energetic production process, cultivation, without any obligation to obtain electricity from RES, without any guarantee for workers in glasshouses and working conditions, to avoid exploitation. We are asking for the aid of cannabis medicinal products for cultivation outside high productivity land, for the production of finished products that will be accessible to Greek patients, with a water-saving and reusing clause, with an RES electricity clause, from photovoltaics to household roofs. They will be able to sell and reward, which is not currently the case, for the excess amount of energy they produce and can be used in these crops or any sustainable decentralised method of production RES exists. We ask for strict conditions and checks on working conditions in greenhouses. We ask for a patient card, organized as a state which our fellow humans need to use cannabis, so that they can again be operational, on the basis of their doctor and their doctor's advice, so that these people can have legal access to the formulations that they do not have, even though they are necessary to deal with epilepsy, become operational again after chronic illnesses, with chronic pain. You deprive them of that bill too! We are calling for a cannabis agency that sets the scientific criteria and detoxifies the debate on cannabis. You're even turning cannabis into a progressive demand for land grabbing. The New Democracy says it saw light all of a sudden, and now it's pro, says yes to the cannabis crop. We're wondering which investor confronted the government. Mera25 is voting against this bill. We hear that SYRIZA can be withdrawn. In fact, I do not think they should be right, because at a time when SYRIZA is asking for the bill to go a step further and for there to be cultivation of the raw material of the medicinal cannabis and on the high-quality land, I do not understand where the fundamental disagreement is here. But you have also brought an amendment to an oil company 'ENERGEAN' for some 100 million aid. To do what? I would remind you that thankfully ENERGEAN has in practice been withdrawn and appears to be withdrawn from all mining, like ELPE, as did EXXON, as did TOTAL. They leave the mining companies as they see that the Government of New Democracy and SYRIZA and the Change Movement were evident in favour of mining, these mining against the fight against global climate change, against the natural environment that you are going on and finally we have reached the point where the companies are going. Nonetheless, does this aid involve the sight of Prenos, where do you give them these 100 million to keep jobs or to do something like that? You give them 100 million to fire fifty workers and give another fifty to a contractor to work with them. You're giving 2 million dismissals. These things are unthinkable. As MERA25, however, we are also bringing an amendment to what is happening at the present time on the GDR, this incomprehensible situation where in West Athens it was raining ashes for a day where, throughout Athens, the world thought its kitchen was burning for this huge fire. Regardless of whether it was arson or negligence - that I imagine will be shown by the investigation of the firefighting - one thing is certain: we must end the motive of arson in Greece. We live in the century of climate change and yet most forest fires are due to human energy. This has to end. We have no room if we want to have forests in this country in a few years. That is why we call on the Greek Parliament to pass what it had voted for in my report on forest protection, on the Green Paper, on the European Parliament, on the 30-year ban on building, mining and on any other investment in burnt. This is what the European Parliament has asked us to do, and here too, to stop the debate on who serves a fire, to stop the motive, along with the forest maps that stop the private incentive and on the smaller scale for building. Finish with the man-made fires. To protect our forests. At the moment, since 1997, there has been no fire extinguisher in Greece. There's no human being coming in to extinguish forest fires in Greece in practice. We've got air-to-air fire extinguisher. We let the fire evolve on its own. It burns and burns the settlements. That's why we never had to lose settlements, and now we're losing settlements and residents together. Because forest fire extinguisher is completely dissolved. Let's cut the motives and see how we really re-establish the fire extinguisher system in Greece. Previously, forest services entered and opened fire zones while there was a fire, cleaned up, there was surveillance. This is all lost since 1997, government-government. We must reintroduce them, however, at the moment it is important to stop the motives. We have therefore, as a PARTA25, tabled and will submit as many times as necessary the amendment calling for a 30-year ban on building, mining, investing in arson-burned land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u25	We too, Mr. Arseny. Minister, you have five minutes, with a tolerance if necessary, to present the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u26	I just want to say that the great fire, which unfortunately broke out these days, came from no motive. There's also been official announcements. It came from a gentleman who thought of a good time last night, with eight bottles, to burn down some branches of olive trees he had farted. If I remember correctly, the national destruction in Matti again had begun with a similar incident of another gentleman who was burning a branch in Dionysus again. In other words, none of these disasters, which you mentioned, were done for the sake of any interest. They were made of human, let me say, negligence. Mr President, first of all, as regards the amendment by the Ministry of the Environment, to which the previous colleague referred, the Minister responsible, Mr Screkas, will come to support it shortly so that you can ask him any question you want. It's not my responsibility at all. With regard to the two ministerial amendments, it is the Ministry of Development and Investment with a general number of 889 and a specialist of 70 and the Ministry of Rural Development with a general number of 888 and a special number of 69. The first comes from the Secretariat-General for Industry and is implementing our memorandumary obligations to regulate all the issues. What's the matter? That there were many fines scattered for various penalties and in the memorandum it was noted that there was no proportionality and justification for each penalty based on the gravity of each infringement. The Legal Committees and the Secretariat-General of Industry and the Ministry of Rural Development have therefore worked, because the latter are the relevant food safety standards. One is the basics for industrial issues. The other is food safety standards. The result of these work, the two amendments, is in the context of the country's memorial monitoring. I don't think I have anything to say about it. Now, with regard to the amendment - I repeat the number, to know where to look, ladies and gentlemen - with a general number of 889 and a special 70, it is of interest to say about Article 2, which is an option for GFCM to have interoperability with other electronic systems in the transfer of information that does not fall within the personal data so that the process can be made more quickly. It is within the framework of the state's e-government and the service of the citizen. Articles 3 and 4 relate to duty-free, unrestricted and incompatible, the first to aid for the supply of outdoor heating bodies to restaurant shops and the second to subsidise activities, once again to aid through COVID from the NSRF, again duty-free and irreparable. These are my two amendments. I would like to say that I will accept two parliamentary amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u27	Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt. In Article 4 of the amendment you refer to the actions...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u28	...the gyms and the pediatricians...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u29	They're the gyms and the pediatricians that I suggested the platform should start because the latter have been proclaimed now. Focus, gyms and pediatricians. And lawyers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u30	We're waiting for it at the end of the month.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u31	Yes, platform 28 to 30 May will be opened for gyms and pediatricians and in the second ten days of June for lawyers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u32	For tourism?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u33	We'll announce it in the next few days, as soon as the committee approves it. As soon as the committee receives the first approval, that will be it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u34	The focus isn't inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u35	There's the focus inside, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u36	One is for catering heaters, and the other is for playgrounds and gyms.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u37	That's right. This is for the public investment programme and the ESRB. We'll see. If it's necessary for focusing an expert, we'll bring it, there's no question. We are now accepting the amendments under a general number of 900 and a special 74 by Mr Isonas Foilas for the energy communities. It's an extension to the deadline so they can submit. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] We are accepting the amendment tabled by Mr Simos Kedicoglou, with a general number of 896 and a special number 72, with regard to the submission of certain tax and insurance information by certain companies in the Evia Prefecture affected by the previous disasters there. That is all, Mr President. I'm resuming the numbers and there's no misunderstanding. With a general number of 896 specialists from Mr Simos Kedicoglou and with a general number of 900 and a specialist from Mr. Fotidas. Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Papathanases to refer to his amendment as well, in order to close the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u38	A clarification, Minister. Mr. Haritsis can't be accepted? Because the other receivers are accepted, Mr. Haritsis cannot be accepted. Mr. Papathanasis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. I, too, wish many years to the holidaymakers. The first article gives a two-year extension to the deadline for the completion of the investment projects covered by the aid schemes. 4399. This extension is granted due to COVID. With Article 2 in the first paragraph of Article 2 on the maintenance of existing jobs, when the certification of the completion and initiation of the production process is at the beginning of the certification of the production process, to be precise, completion can be issued without the fulfilment of a specific condition. It goes without saying that from there on all other conditions apply normally. Article 2 again in the second paragraph for the calculation of the work units will not be taken in the year 2020 at the time of submission, because it also counts in the score. The EMCDDAs of 2019 will be taken. Again, this is self-evident, because then the companies that decided to submit the projects were fully operational, so we are giving them this opportunity to use the EMEA in 2019. In Article 3, we are giving an extension of one year, as all the companies have received for the completion which had been passed by an advisory committee and which had not been decided on the extension because of force majeure. With the implementation of the "Investing in Greece" which became FEK on 30 October we transfer this date to the date of the start of consultation of this law, so that companies that had already been approved by the Advisory Committee on the basis of force majeure may also receive one year extension. With Article 4 we are addressing strategic investments, which are, in any case, authorised by the General Secretariat for Strategic Investments. The permit to enter and leave the construction sites and generally the works we are now giving it from the Ministry of Development. With Article 5 in the second paragraph, we are giving the right, in the event that a lessee, who may be the public, legal person governed by public law, OTA or body in the wider public sector other than the EBRD, to make a property for sale, to be able to give the money provided by the successful tenderer. In other words, we give him the right, in case he has invested and is inside as a leaser, to be able to get the property at the maximum price the lessor has received in a competitive procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, too. Good morning. Happy birthday to those who celebrate!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, could I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u42	Here, Mr Katrin, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u43	Minister, you have ruined the good tradition of informing us in committee of the amendments you will bring. Since both are of the Ministry of Development, I think we could have discussed them with the Commission, you have informed us. Mr Georgios at least - and so far at least - has told us that amendments will also be made to the content. Mr Kedicoglou's amendment is the third time he has come to Parliament. It is a photographic type amendment, a third extension. I think it would be good if we didn't continue...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u44	Don't be fourth!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u45	Let us not continue to extend to specific amendments that come for a specific purpose. I think it is wrong for the quality of the work done in committee and in plenary, but I would like to believe, Minister, that it is also wrong for you to have a serious debate. Mr Fofila is also a purely photographic amendment. They're coming late, we're talking...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u46	Good, Mr Katrin, I think you have made your points on what has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u47	I think the climate is too good for the bill to have this debate. He's a little undernourished by that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with a serious issue, such as the fires, because for one more year and a good start, the anti-nuclear period begins with great fires threatening and destroying natural wealth, forest land, property and even one of the last green lungs in the wider area of Attica and Corinthia. For another year, however, we are hearing the same known excuses for the winds, for the extreme weather phenomena that have become candy of all governments. No, gentlemen of the government, for this timely destruction it is not our roots nor our God who hates us. It is the fault of time-consuming deficiencies in the fields of forest protection and firefighting, shortages in staff, deficiencies in modern media, of course, along with the commercialisation of forests and land. Every year the JRC intervenes, with questions, in a thousand ways, highlights these problems, from the point of view of not listening, because for your governments all this is a cost, so the forests are handed over to the investors and the great business interests. What did the Prime Minister say last year by the Desert of Corfu? If he says he'll burn sometime, let's hand it over to the private. Speaking today for the region of Gerani, the various investment projects, the various interests which caradokon and which will certainly make use of such disasters have been known for years. How do you know? Some of the projects provided for in this draft law on cannabis may also be included in these investment projects. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government with this draft law on cannabis medication once again takes the spoon from SYRIZA. It has lifted the same flag, the attraction of investment, as SYRIZA had done, through the process of liberating cannabis production and its products for medical purposes. It seems that "the money is too much". The main and worst thing, however, is that it is even more open to Halos than to take a step forward - a step towards dangerous drug acquittal in the conscience of young children in particular. We cannot, of course, comment on the words of great love and apologies that have been exchanged by government officials, such as the Minister for Development, who suddenly saw the truth, with various well-known and unexplained members of SYRIZA. Their example was followed by various supposedly progressive and also conservative tubers. The territory of this New Democracy - SYRIZA agreement is the basis for further opening the debate on the legalisation of the hashish, because there is a new level of profitability for large companies, of course, along with the grifterers and all kinds of traders, who will all cease to exist. We are clearly saying that this bill and all the debate on it will be exploited to pave the way for the legalisation of cannabis as a whole. This is exactly what happened in the United States of America. That's what happened in Canada. This has been done in a number of countries, countries of the European Union. As a party, we have a stable and crystal clear position on these issues, a position which we have expressed many times here in the House, in the European Parliament, but which we have mainly tabled within the Greek society. We fight it with all our strengths within the labor movement, the mass popular movement, in cooperation with the workers in the programs, with special scientist parents, with the parents of the children of the healing communities, who, together with their children, are going through a very large lukewarm and have acquired, of course, rich experience and knowledge of this situation. Our position takes into account the experience gained from the use of other drugs, such as opioids, medical practice and scientific data available on cannabis and substances, both natural and synthetic, from cannabis. For example, the herbal cannabis, because of the large number of active substances it contains - for the vast majority of which we do not know the effects, interactions, side effects that each of them has, but also their combinations - cannot be used as a medicinal product in itself. On the other hand, certain active substances, isolated from cannabis or even artificially composite, could be used for medical comfort purposes in very specific, but cases of diseases where already existing medicines are not sufficient. However, the main condition is that you should treat these active substances as medicines with what this means for the study, for research, so that they can be given to patients with the greatest possible safety and efficacy. Of course, this means very strict control by the state itself of production, processing, disposal, administration of such medicines with strict scientific criteria, so that you can ultimately ensure the safety and health of patients. Legislation has always allowed both the production and the disposal of cannabis for medical purposes, but only for the State monopoly. In fact, this legislation was updated by the 2013 Act, which sets out specific conditions for the production and disposal of narcotic substances. What are you doing with this bill, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Excludes cannabis production for medical purposes from the process of the state monopoly, thus completing the path that SYRIZA opened. At the same time, you are strengthening the conditions for the development of this production activity by natural or legal persons, with a view not to supplying the State monopoly but mainly to export. The so-called cannabis medicinal product contains the psychotropic substance in more than 0,2%. I mean, it's no different from the public hashish. What are you doing, to achieve the main purpose of exporting? You release this 0.2% limit on products intended for export. It will apply, you say, only the conditions of use of the exporting country. This means that hemp will be produced with more than 1% of the active substance if the finished product goes, for example, to Switzerland, that is to say, with a five-fold quantity of active substance than it can be classified as a narcotic. But to say things with their name. Today hemp is a great brand name, which brings enormous profits to groups that decide to invest. In fact, in conditions of economic crisis, it is really a way out for huge funds that are greedy because of the crisis and are not invested, because they do not generate great profits. Greece has been selected by monopolies as a basic country for cannabis production, because it has ideal climatic conditions, it has cheap labour and a geographical position, which helps both transit and competition with illegal cultivation, which is concentrated mainly in the Balkans. It is at least immoral and you as a government, such as SYRIZA, are able to exploit the anguish of certain patients and their families, for which there are indications that some substances contained in the cannabis plant can really offer them relief. You do so without any shame, just to speed up the cannabis liberalisation process, while, as you well know, its production could proceed with a state monopoly or with the introduction into the final analysis of the relevant preparations. Although we have said at the outset that the aim is to attract investment, this bill makes reasonable suspicions that it is actually coming to serve other purposes. We say again that the eye of investors is all about the legalisation of cannabis, hashish, because that is where the lot of money is, the lot of remula. We also know that in the next few years we are gradually expected to complete the legalisation of cannabis medicinal products throughout the European Union and the gaze of the groups is already at the next stage, namely the post-mortem legalisation of the use of hashish. In fact, it is a global campaign of states and various monopolist groups to acquit the harmful characteristics of cannabis. This campaign has already led to a sharp increase in its number of users. In the United States, the retail sale of cannabis in both its pharmaceutical and recreational use in 2019 exceeded $12 billion, increasing by 35%. Within the period 2008-2018 the legalisation of cannabis in more and more states of the United States has led to an increase of 17% in daily cannabis users and, of course, at the same time, to triple those seeking rehab from cannabis. At the same time, studies on Europe, which has drawn the attention of investors, provide for the European cannabis market by 2028 to reach EUR 60.3 billion as a drug, EUR 55.2 billion for its pharmaceutical use and EUR 180 million for its industrial use. All this will, of course, be done on condition that the legalisation of the use of cannabis in more than one country in the European Union is progressed. So no one understands that the liberalisation of cannabis farming under any pretext serves any social real need, except the need for monopolistic groups to invest their accumulated funds. But this is why important productive opportunities are being destroyed for our country. While Greece could produce a wide variety of essential agricultural products, it currently lacks sufficient commodities. Not to say again what crops have been grown in commodities, and because of the commitments made by the European Union, for example cotton and so many others. And now we're here to cultivate hashish. It's a lot of progress in the 20th century. Mercy, we tell you, bogus of politics. Very large parts of the Greek people and the Greek youth, however, today they can understand that with such drafts that exaggerate cannabis as a medicine, which highlights its secondary qualities in main or seek to form a positive sign about its use as a drug, it has and will have incalculable social consequences. There is now experience. In the European Union itself, in countries that are legal or prescribe as a medicinal product, almost half of the sixteen-year-old students use, in the United States one out of three high school students is using cannabis diverted medical prescriptions, while in our country half of the sixteen-year-olds consider their testing harmless, according to the latest data from the National Documentation and Information Centre on Drugs. You have enormous responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and other forces. You have responsibilities for all the governments to date because with all this debate on the so-called benefits of cannabis you are acquitting its use in the consciences of the children of the people's family. You therefore have huge responsibilities for the upward trends in the use of cannabis and a whole range of drugs in our country. Do you know what the image of our country is? How cannabis use has tripled compared to previous decades, how cannabis users who are asking for assistance from the curative programs in Greece have simultaneously increased. These are the elements from the JET, from '18 UNO', the "APPROV", the "DIAPLOS" programme, the promotion and self-help programmes. The figures from all of the dry curative programs say that the age of experimentation and entry into drug use has been reduced, first and foremost, cannabis since the age of high school classes. Truly, how does the current New Democracy Government answer this picture? By subjugating the work of the CDE, altering its healing model as a follow-up to the abolition of the self-government in 2019 with the appointment of its administration by the Government, creating an anti-drug policy aimed solely at allegedly reducing the damage, substitutes, supervised sites, dismantling prevention, underfunding, generalizing with flexible working relationships, new programmes with end date through the financing of the ESDP. Of course, we are carefully following SYRIZA’s late interest in hitting KETHA and his philosophy as a dry healing program. It is the least hypocrisy when all of the policies of the SYRIZA government on the issue of drugs were actually turning the way to make social tolerance and dependence on them. In fact, you have even more sedated prevention, but also treatment, since with social tolerance for drugs you are exalting the young and the general population the motivation for treatment. Isn't it true that you all agree today with the unscientific separation of drugs into hard and soft? Are there, too, cruel and soft causes that turn a human into use and drug dependence? Today, however, what is needed is very specific funding from the state budget to strengthen all dry healing programs, strengthen the CTE with permanent, sufficient staff, with new structures, as much as the country needs, to form a single institutional framework for the seventy-five prevention centres in our country, to cover all areas of Piraeus or Lasithi in Crete that do not even have a prevention centre, not to go ahead with the dignity of supervised sites. All of this is for the JRC first-line issues, because they relate to life, they relate to the future, the consciousness of the new generation. Recently I had a meeting with the management boards of the parents' associations of the curative programs. We listen with real anxiety, the voice of the parents who participate in the family associations of the JETHA, other healing programs for what cannabis means and what its legalisation will bring, or what its acquittal has already brought about. In our view, the New Democracy Government, by continuing with the SYRIZA's path - it seems this and by this draft law - has set itself the goal of legalising the possibility of using preparations from patients for medical reasons over a time to move towards the total decriminating of the use of cannabis for personal use, which will, of course, also legalise its cultivation. All this, of course, you're going to dress them up with a medically ill mantle. We as a JRC, as we did with the SYRIZA bill, will now vote against this bill, because its main criterion is the profit and competition of monopolies, which in the case of drugs are traded multiplely and speculate illegally on human suffering. Today, there are objective conditions for a different path, which will have real social needs and socialised production can be organised on the basis of a truly scientific centralised economic planning, with the functioning of the state drug agency. Research, production, import, supply of quality and effective medicinal products will be planned and organized free of charge to all those who need it, of course, within a modern state health and welfare system and all this away from black money cords, the illiterate capitalist profit that puts our children's minds and souls at risk and the lives of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. I just want to inform - I think it is mainly of interest to the Parliamentary Representatives - at 13.00 p.m. has requested that the Chairman of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis, speak. Let's go to the list of speakers. Mr Anastasios Deschakis has the floor from New Democracy and the beautiful Evros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law introduces an organised and integrated set of arrangements for the development of the cannabis pharmaceutical industry in the country from which we expect that there will be benefits for our economy through investment, i.e. through the creation of new jobs and the channelling of these products into the market. New choices are being offered in the agricultural and manufacturing sectors, but most of all in those who choose the final products for treatment or recovery. Greece has a unique experience, due to its favourable climate and geographical position, to take the lead in developments in this sector worldwide. The impact of the cannabis industry on the Greek economy is estimated from about EUR 60 billion in the first year to EUR 1,2 billion 12 years later. This draft law seeks to strengthen production and develop exports of cannabis medicinal products under strict safety conditions - in capital letters - with a view to making Greek production rapidly competitive on the world cannabis market, which is constantly evolving. The procedure for exporting these products is simplified by ensuring that the internal market works better. Specific conditions and strict conditions are provided for the approval of the cultivation and production of finished cannabis medicinal products, opening up new prospects for the Greek region. We must not forget, of course, that the cultivation of cloning cannabis, which is a pure agricultural product, with a lower level of addictive substances, is also necessary. Only in the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace have two investments so far been approved. At the same time, we have a strong interest which will create an average of fifty and sixty high-paid jobs each because of the specialisation required. It's a hydroponic or aeroponic activity, which means that the soil is not required. And horticulture in closed type greenhouses means that it can be done in low productivity land. Therefore, it does not bind farmed areas of high productivity that have remained available. Because our farmers, Mr Minister, are protesting because great farming areas are available for green energy, and that is a matter. Fields and irrigated areas are being lost, and we should at some point consider it responsibly, because, thank God, we have other areas in our country that could be exploited. According to official figures, both the UN and the World Health Organisation are dynamically in favour of developing the world market for medicinal cannabis. Our country has, from now on, been coordinating in a global and European strategy for cannabis medicine, which does not involve any moral bluntness. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that today I am speaking in this bill for a plant product that we all know the consequences of, and indeed over time, I too - have presented my previous experience and knowledge of - which is now being developed by rules, a social, economic and medical gift to man. In public opinion, in what we say, perhaps collectively unconscious, the term cannabis is linked to products which are unlawfully marketed. The enforcement authorities of the Greek state are making titanium and important efforts to dismantle illegal drug trafficking and drug use activities. My course and experience in the Body of Greek Police as well as official statistics suggest - at least a large percentage accepts this - that the use of cannabis is the precursor to use hard drugs and addiction to them. However, the cannabis medicinal product should be released as a condition by negative combinations. They are similar and differ, however, mainly in the cause. There should be a clear distinction between rural professionals who want to cultivate pharmaceutical or cloning cannabis from the illegal, indignant culture or occupation, prevent the spreading into the cafeteria, social associations, and not let the semi-failure destroy the prospect, prevent impliedly, deprive the alibi of the illegal ones, leave no blurred waters, ambiguous intentions. In the blurred waters, only illegality blooms. Serious entrepreneurs are turning away from vague situations. For this reason, I propose changing the term of cannabis medicine in order to move away from the world of dependencies and illegality. We taught the world culture, language and science. We made baptisms, we changed names. We did it. We need to start again by changing the combinations for a new dynamic culture, because of the aim of medical, of course. By the introduction of the most important specialist scientists, geoponists, linguisticians, to establish a new term on account of medical purposes. In fact, I do not hide from you that I spoke with the universities and the Agronomician of Athens and with the equivalent of the New Orestiad. I am sure that this change will help to bring cannabis together, in three years' time since today, as a condition, only with an income-saving crop, a new investment proposal, a beneficial substance that covers and relieves the needs of sufferers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, today we are doing a brave and superior political act, overcoming ourselves. We recognise and complement the legislative framework of the 2018 Presidential Decree to follow global developments in the field of cannabis medication. We collaborated with the Agronomics - as I said - University of Athens and Evros and we listened very carefully to the academic community which I will present. I consider it strategic as a next step to allow research to be carried out at universities and at university clinics to develop know-how. I propose that - as a next legislative step, therefore, what will provide for research into and the setting up of a special cannabis service in Greece in the standards of foreign affairs, an independent authority based on the Ministry of Health under the shadow of Katechaki, which will deal with cannabis or, more generally, with natural bio-active substances. It will be a half victory to produce and export cannabis, but then import the medicine at five times the cost for the Greek State. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the first step in a new market for our country. It attracts new major investment with funds from abroad. We're householders, we're not afraid of it. The interest of internationally active companies is great and hopeful. For the reasons I have just mentioned, I am voting in favour of the bill under discussion and I am sure that the Minister will take into account my brave position, which is also creative. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u52	Thank you too, Mr Prussakis. The Parliamentary Representative from the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliou Villardos is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, will the order be followed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u54	He's a parliamentarian, he asked me to talk, what do I do now? He's a parliamentarian, he has the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u55	They are the first five speakers. It's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u56	You're right, Minister, but if he wants to talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, this is a tradition!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Loverdo, will you excuse one who entered the House yesterday? This tradition I didn't know, really I'm talking to you. You know how honest I am.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u59	It's from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u60	The Rules of Procedure do not say that for the first five, I have not read it. Tradition may exist, but the Rules of Procedure do not write it. One more, the other one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u61	Well, I have a personal problem. I want you to give me the floor in my turn to speak third.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u62	Third, you'll talk. You're third. However, if the parliamentary representative wants to speak, since he has the right, under the Rules of Procedure, to do what? If Mr. Varoufakis comes in asking to speak at 13:00, I can't do any different, he's the chief. Please. We've wasted too much time. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will start with a question to the Minister of Development, which we are constantly putting to the Minister of Finance without answering. Is the EUR 315 million advance paid for the Greek Group by Latsis, which has been entered in the 2020 budget and then in the first quarter of 2021? As far as we know, the LAMDA DEVELOPMENT, without even giving EUR 1 for the Greek - unless it has now given EUR 315 million - has already raised EUR 1 billion of own funds and EUR 1.5 billion for bonds, while it is preparing for the sale of real estate on the coastal side, plus the casino of course. As a matter of fact, after just below its plot, in Asteras, villas of EUR 40,000 per square are sold, as we will testify in the Minutes, when the group bought the square from the public only from EUR 148 to EUR 248, as we analysed in the Greek bill. On the subject now. As I said in the last committee, I was sincerely disappointed at my participation in a cannabis bill, as if Greece had no further problem resolving from the production of drugs. It is, of course, indifferent to me, to one more symbiosis of the Minister, who suddenly discovered that this is a great investment opportunity, which he did not notice when he was in opposition, as he had the flexibility to notice the SYRIZA executive, which the Minister praised, in apologies to him. But presenting cannabis as a technical or industrial product, which is missing from Greece, when it is surely aware of what it is all about, really bothers me - as a human and as a Greek, while I think it is annoying him, but he is simply willing to stifle his annoying chair, just like the Prespecies Agreement. My conclusion, however, was that Europe has set us up for sectors such as cannabis cultivation, tourism and casinos, predicting that at some point Greece, if the Greeks do not react, will be led to something similar for the European Union, such as Puerto Rico for the United States, with which only a common currency and anything else. Unfortunately, we do not see investments in production being promoted, for example in the manufacture of electric cars, where we have the competitive advantage of Larco's nickel, which is being sold out. On the contrary, imports of EUR 100 million are also subsidised here, which, of course, will lead to the countries that give them to us by supporting their own jobs. Why? Because of the claims that the Greek market is small, despite the fact that similar countries with our own, such as Bulgaria or Portugal, make cars. Last year, however, in our timely question about the Greek Sugar Industry, the Minister of Development replied that it is not a fool to buy it - there is no sucker to buy it! - something that we at least do not regard as a responsible position. The Greek Sugar Industry, however, does not even operate for biofuels - which is a green investment, while we will import sugar from Germany - nor, of course, for feed, despite a rapid increase in prices, and then, in the same question, it said that even masks could not be made in Greece. If you can talk like this seriously! Continuing, is it really a big legal market for cannabis in Greece? Starting with the drug cannabis, various publications are available on its prospects, referring to EUR 350 million investment and a thousand and eighty-five jobs. Does anyone really think that significant numbers will be lost if only from the stop of lignite prematurely, long before Germany, twenty-five thousand jobs will be lost? And as far as its impact on the Greek economy was concerned, the studies were initially EUR 60 million, and in twelve years perhaps EUR 1.2 billion. Does the Minister believe that this is a serious sum compared to the risks associated with cannabis? With such great potential in our primary sector, which could achieve miracles by using high technology, cannabis, marijuana, as is called elsewhere, did he find? Isn't it a shame? Would it not be better to base the consumption of Greek products on the domestic market, on tourism with tax incentives and on exports? Is it that hard for the government to understand? The Netherlands had EUR 101 billion on food exports only in 2017. It had 101 billion euros, as we will deposit overall later in the Minutes, when Greece had less than 1/11, while the Netherlands has a little higher outcome than the Peloponnese and Central Greece perhaps together. There are also reports that Greece can develop into an international centre for the production and processing of medicinal and industrial cannabis, although here it should compete with neighbouring countries, in which production is already widespread, while the conditions of the economy of some are, unfortunately, much better with cheaper labour. On the other hand, we do not need to stress here what is happening in states such as Albania, especially in terms of cannabis and crime, where the latter's income from illegal trade is estimated at $3.5 billion or about 20% -25% of its GDP. Is Albania really our model? In relation to the cannabis fraction, where its content in THC, the known psychotropic substance, is less than 0.2%, and here is not much growth today, since with elements of 2020, only a thousand acres are cultivated in Greece, noting that for everything we say, we have submitted to the Practical Committee documents that document them. Continuing, the legal market in Europe was only $3.5 billion in 2019, although there are various estimates - two of which will be submitted for the Minutes - while in the United States, where there is a tendency to legalise cannabis, the market in 2019 was $13.2 billion, but mainly because of its recreational use, namely as a drug that is mainly consumed by young people, which we hope will not be aimed at adopting either the European Union or, of course, Greece. In addition, we have mentioned to the committee that in the United States tycoons, such as George Soros, are funding the campaign to legalise cannabis, according to Los Angeles Times, as well as we have tabled to the Committee in the Minutes. Their cause and benefit is obvious, stressing that cannabis started in the United States as a medicine, and today in many states it is not forbidden as entertainment. Is that what the government plans? However, if the Minister or the government do not think of their own children, let the children of the Greeks at least think of our own children, as he is aware of the appalling consequences of the use of cannabis in the brain and the psychology of young people. On the other hand, does the Minister not know that the Netherlands is actually stopping the experiment with the free provision of cannabis to tourists in its famous coffee because of the rise in crime? We will also submit data on the Minutes. Does he not even know the Dutch protests about cannabis cultivation that was recently allowed? We will also submit to the Minutes, which would be useful to read them in order to be informed. Really, shouldn't we learn from the experiences of others? It is therefore clear that we are against the draft law, considering that it is entirely irresponsible for the government that promotes it, let alone comparing the enormous cost it will have for Greek society and for the young Greeks, compared to the minimum financial benefit for Greece. Because now, as my colleague rapporteur, Mr Bubas, has said, the Minister has sanitized us about the cultivation and development of superfoods, as well as aromatic and pharmaceutical plants, which we are proposing instead of cannabis, we have informed the committee that natural cosmetics and care products are a market that, in 2018, amounted to $34 billion internationally, food supplements to $40 billion in 2020, while the world herbbased preparation market was in 2016 at $71 billion, with huge growth prospects everywhere. On the contrary, the legal market for cannabis in Europe was around EUR 3.5 billion, as we have already said. So his irony, only as a sad ignorance, can be considered. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, because he said it was forbidden to set up cannabis companies in areas of high productivity, we wondered how it was possible then to obtain permission from the cannabis company in Thebes, the son of the former Minister of Defence, Mr. Panos Kammenos, without, of course, getting any answers. Continuing, what Greece needs is a healthy development of its economy, through public investment in productive sectors, such as industry and in no way the grant of consumption by credit, such as the EUR 24 billion in 2020, as well as the EUR 16 billion that the government is planning for 2021, 40 billion in total, not to mention the fact that they will be called upon to pay our children over a multitude. Is that really what every minister does at home? Does he, in other words, consume by lending much more than he wins, increasing his debts and not interested in paying for his children? What we're doing at our house shouldn't we do in Greece? On the other hand, has the New Democracy learned nothing since the 2004-2009 era that overran Greece, leading it to the IMF? Not even in 2012, which suffocated it for the next ninety years with the PSI? She's been suffocating her for ninety-nine years! Has she also not learned from at least her party, which already owes more than EUR 320 million, which is increasing every year from interest? We will submit relevant documents in the minutes. Turning back to public investment, the healthy development that would be caused by them, as well as the private legislative measures following them - public investment takes precedence, and private investment usually follows - would increase the wages, on the one hand, without harming the competitiveness of our economy and, on the other, the prices of our private assets, of which more than EUR 1 trillion have been lost over the last ten years, almost EUR 600 billion from the low real estate prices. The figures are huge. So, on the one hand, it would reduce our private debt, including as a percentage of our assets, and, on the other, it would be clear to the banks, which continue to cost us huge sums, because the values of their guarantees would increase. There's no other way. They would also increase their profitability as they could again lend the companies and households, who would then have recovered their creditworthiness. Only a blind man, therefore, does not see the real opportunity, which is certainly not cannabis and, above all, what is needed to exploit it. We hope that the government will see it and finally stop operating at the expense of the Greeks, such as the last decade, but also the previous ones. In conclusion, in even simpler terms, there is a significant increase in the Public Investment Programme and a reduction in taxes, of course, from the Ministry of Finance, at competitive levels with the surrounding countries, at the same time as the change in our economic and tourism model - something that we say since the first day we are in Parliament - as well as the genuine activation of the Ministry of Development for productive investment, both on the part of the State and the private sector, especially in the domestic sector - comes mainly from investment - in all countries, but also from the international one. Of course, the immediate stop to privatization - the sale, better - of public benefits, of strategies, as well as of profitable state-owned enterprises, while at the same time recovering the U.S., the U.S. which currently belongs to foreigners, as well as investments in their development. No reasonable country sells out the electricity and natural gas networks, much less its water - we mean the DEDDIE, the IPTO, the IPTO and the IPPCA - noting that the latter will soon become one of the most valuable resources on the planet - water - while the cultivation of cannabis requires large quantities of water, which Greece does not have and should not make available for cannabis. If this opportunity window is closed now, if we are to be prevented by the nightmare that has been planned since the pandemic, from rising interest rates to inflation and massive defaults - two hundred thousand krafts are foreseen for Greece - perhaps in addition to large stock exchanges, we are very afraid that there will be no other opportunity, while the least that could happen in Greece would be an even more stringent memorandum, with far more painful exchanges, this time in terms of our territorial and maritime sovereignty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Villardo. The Minister has the floor, Mr Adonis Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u65	In fact, Mr President, on personal grounds. I will answer all the speakers as a whole when I have my speech. But my colleague, Mr Villardos, although I always have due respect for him, has made an inappropriate request and I would ask him to withdraw. He said that "the Minister changed his mind, apparently preferring his ministerial chair, whatever ideas" or something. Because you haven't been here for so many years, Mr. Villardo, to get to know us, I am one of the few ministers in the post-cultural Greek democracy who, following my ideas to vote for the PSI in 2012, resigned at the same time by a Member and a Minister and I went home and sold books. So I do not allow you - and I ask you to withdraw - to question my intentions. Everyone can have any idea, disagree as much as we want, but the morality of each other in this Chamber cannot be disputed. Please pack.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u67	Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u68	Minister, you probably didn't understand me. I did not question your moral integrity. I just saw that someone's doing some things, and I guess she's gonna have some other things in return. Nothing more. I never questioned anyone's moral integrity in this House, let alone yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Loverdos has the floor from the Change Movement. Mr. Xanthos did the service to me, and I thank him very much. Thank you, Mr. Xanthi. He wanted to be third. Don't make him sad. He will be saddened that he will be sad on Saturday, let us not be sad today. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u70	On Saturday you will cry, Mr President, as you usually cry, with some exceptions! Before I get to the point, I want to make a clarification from the Step of the House, because I was a little disturbed. Yesterday New Democracy colleague Yannis Loverdos said something and the attacks on me are many. But I'm Andrew Loverdos. That's Yannis. We're others. We belong to other parties. I have heard and confirmed in the Chamber by a good colleague that SYRIZA will present today a proposal for a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u71	He has testified, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u72	Yes, sir. Yesterday I wasn't here. I had bought for the custody the other day. When I heard it from Mrs Giannakopoulos, I said that the party which proposes a roll-call vote should also be involved in the vote. "I propose a roll-call vote for others to vote" is against Rule 72 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The organisation of the roll-call vote presupposes participation at the outset of the Party which it proposes, since the Rules stipulate that the fifteen Members whose names are named are the ones who finally propose. Can there be a motion for a roll-call vote, and these fifteen Members, or, as is now the case because of a pandemic, the party which it proposes, withdraws from the vote? Does he make a roll-call vote to see what others are going to vote on? There's no that! I repeat that it is contrary to Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure of this House and I cannot understand why the President of this House and the Bureau have accepted this contrary to the Rules of Procedure and we shall have it today. It's not about making a rope. There is a question of violating the Rules of Procedure of the House. In the first time that happens, I will see to it that I am in the Chamber so that we can raise a point of order and discuss a point of order, Mr President. It's not possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u73	There you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u74	Please, please don't interrupt him!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u75	My speech on yesterday was made yesterday and, as you know, the House is working under special conditions, good or bad. Anti-parliamentary customs, I would point out. I will point out these anti-parliamentary customs, because we cannot interpret and violate Parliament's Rules of Procedure. On the draft law, Minister, Mr Georgiadis, colleagues of the New Democracy, you remind me of the value of using a phrase by Alekos Alavanos: 'Welcome them, children! Welcome!’. Welcome to a progressive policy that was launched three years ago by SYRIZA. We then voted and not only did you vote against, but what you did not say. A lot of what your Members have said has been heard and I have just heard from the Greek Parliamentary Representative. What about entertainment cannabis, what about bats? And what you weren't saying. And instead of entering into that draft law and finding its weaknesses, that were also the result of the deed, you made a mess of that draft law. I get excited when I see these obidial changes. I should also like to refer to the Prespecies Agreement and to your participation in protests by almost all of you, and then everything is well and then no contact with the implementation of the rest of the agreement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Maximos. What about the other articles of the agreement? Applicable? Greece named in terms of nationality and language. Others are called "North Macedonia". The other articles, which were the counterweights, apply? Nothing, radio silence. So there are obsessional changes in your policy, which we are pointing out and criticising. One of them is also concerned with this draft law. The phrase of Alekos Alavanos, I think, is very characteristic. There is a draft law - this is happening in Greece with all the governments - which includes proper regulation in principle on a serious issue, such as cannabis medication. The other provisions, however, which organise the market or organise society, are organising the implementation of the provisions on a very serious subject, in this case, they are not given due attention and the act comes to show whether they are serious, whether they are good regulations or bad regulations. In this regard, who is the judge? I said: the act. What does "act" mean? It means, ladies and gentlemen, that of the hundreds of seventy applications submitted for this activity, ninety-four have been licensed. We are seeing the implementation of the programme on both sides and in practice no one has started to implement it. Practically, no one! Over the years, the legislator is now coming to solve the problems. The first issue that the Minister for Development is being charged with answering is how, in these regulations, the House, which will vote on the draft law, confirms that its provisions will be implemented and will quickly go to the implementation of the specific programmes on a topic - I am now asking fellow Members who oppose the draft law on whatever side of the House, and if they come from - when the World Health Organisation has proposed to the UN and the UN since the beginning of 2000, it has taken the hemp from chapter 4 of drugs and does not raise the issue here on the table or straight. This is not the case. On the contrary, I see haircuts on the legislative initiative. Why the limit of 30 grams of dry blossom? Why until the EOF decides to only have exports and not to be placed on the Greek market through appropriate organic pharmacy? Because these provisions which I just mentioned contain a hesitation, a reflection. You're afraid of it. Fear, don't tell you. The government is not to be afraid, nor to rejoice, nor to be sorry, it is to do. Why are you hesitating here? Why do these restrictions, which, for a long time, stipulate that only exports for this particular production are the prospect? Furthermore, as far as we are concerned, the EOF is not too willing to regulate the issue, which is also about the internal market, as it should be. He thinks he's being loaded with it by the Ministry. My intervention here is mainly procedural. The legislative initiative, as the FOD is involved, must also concern you and the Ministry of Health. Configure it together, so we can have a full application. Since you do not accept the proposal for the national cannabis therapeutic body, why do you not define - if there was the Minister of Health here, it should do so - a special section in the EOF which will deal with these issues? Unless it is wrong for the information we and I have personally and for the EOF to be comfortable, it will very easily make the specific approvals. Now, in relation to an amendment, I address the Minister for Development who has the legislative initiative. I am referring to the compulsory extension of leases. First of all, this had to be discussed a little. It is a good thing that the amendment is correct. In 2013 my own amendment was voted by the government at the time, and SYRIZA had voted with us and the government had accepted. A compulsory extension of a lease means that the lessee, the public, the legal persons and the municipalities accede to it. You say compulsory extension with or without consent. I mean, a new contract. If the municipality needs to say yes, there is actually a new deal. No, it is a compulsory extension - I want you to fix this, there are people hanging from this regulation in the middle of a pandemic - with or without consent, that is the right regulation. Please think about it. You're going to solve a lot of problems. From all over Greece, you will be given the consent of the people who are suffering and the pandemic imposes this. If we had normal conditions, I'd understand the arrangement. With pandemic you cannot ask for the consent of the lessee when it is public when it is a local authority. Please take a look at this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u78	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I will reply to you later in total, so that I do not abuse the time. I'll just make one comment. The use of the phrase by Alekos Alavanos "good children" for this bill was unfortunate because this phrase was said by Alekos Alavanos in 2008 to justify a then Objection of the PASOK. In 2008, Alekos Alavanos spoke about the motion of censure that SYRIZA had submitted to the government, followed by PASOK, and the "good children" were to PASOK. Therefore, it was unfortunate to use. The rest in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u80	Kostas Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u81	We're in trouble with the old and experienced, the old ones remember! Mr. Scandalidis, many years. Mr Tagaras has the floor for the amendment No 895/71.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the amendment, number 895 and number 71, I would briefly like to make a reference to the articles it contains, beginning with Article 1, concerning the extension of the deadline set out in Article 15(1) of Law No 3889/2010 on the forest maps that have been posted in 2021. In essence, we are giving an extension of a period of six months from the deadline for residents abroad, twenty days more for corrections of manifest errors and others about recent postings. As regards Article 2, it concerns the provision of aid by the Greek State to ENERGEAN OIL & GAS, the Aegean Energy Research and Production Company, with a view to supporting the economy during the pandemic. He created huge problems, we all know that. It specifically affected crude oil prices in collapse as a result of the significant decrease. The Greek State is therefore coming to support this company, which concerns the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the regions of Prin and Kavala. It is a company that has been operating there since 1999 in a sensitive area, and especially in conditions like the present ones, which specificity is understandable I believe of all. As regards Article 3, it concerns matters relating to contracts for the concession, exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons under Law 2289/1995. Here there is also a legislative improvement - an addition, which clarifies, so that there are no doubts as to the cases taken by the provision. It concerns the granting of the right to use in areas outside the contractual concession areas. I come to the fourth article on financing from the firearms account for the completion of the second phase of urban planning, on the urban implementation plan for the Matio region, so that both phases can be completed. Article 5 concerns the Holocaust Museum of Greece. It's a very important intervention, it's known at the Delegation because it's been coming from the past. There are now arrangements for this very important intervention to be implemented, especially in the part I am referring to. The building of the Holocaust Museum is certainly historic. It is a profound symbolic move that reminds us, but also symbolizes periods that have occurred in the historical past and that we want to avoid in the future. It also highlights Thessaloniki as a centre of multiculturality, especially in conditions like today's. It is a move in collaboration with the Israeli community of Thessaloniki, the "GAIA OSE" and thus OSE SA and the Municipality of Thessaloniki, aiming until the end of the year, to be able, after this arrangement, to issue the building permit and start construction work. It is an issue that concerns the government and is very high in the objectives and priorities, much more when this time-lags with the Greek Presidency of the International Alliance for the Memorandum of Holocaust. The sixth amendment also concerns the resolution of the benefits of users travelling on the national motorway network. The proposed provision covers the legislative gap, which exists and explicitly provides for the receipt of ready-to-driven sections of motorway, removing the associated delays in their use and achieving, not only the faster movement of citizens, but above all the safer movement of them. In fact, it amends the concessions granted under Laws 3597/2007 and 3621 to allow the State to receive ready and completed highway sections and then proceed with the partial performance in circulation. In other words, they are integrated subsections with an operational capacity, while all relevant provisions of each concession contract relating to financial management, revenues - costs - of the deferred part in which the incurable part is included. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, could I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u85	Please, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u86	Thank you. I listened carefully to the Minister. We have also seen the amendment. Article 2 of the amendment states: 'Aid granted by the Greek State', i.e. after the approval of the European Commission, as has been said, support by the company by 100 million or more if I put the remaining 9.5 million mentioned in the amendment. For an economy of time now, let me not go far on this matter. But look. It's a company that makes investment abroad. You are advancing the oil or price crisis, etc. And at the same time, once the possibility of borrowing has been announced, it is going on a voluntary way out, pushing on the workers and blackmailing them. What about this? In fact, it dismisses them, in order to minimise the cost of labour, to make workers in these oiles or in the company cheaper, so that they can make greater profits, at the same time that you and the European Union are financing it with a guarantee from the Greek public! And they're firing people! Is that or is that not unacceptable? Do you know that? Set a clause that no worker will be made redundant.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u87	Here, Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Our partner, Mr Famelos, will then be placed in detail on this amendment. But I would like to say just one word about this article, Article 2. I was prevented by my colleague from the JRC and referred to the question of workers, voluntary and redundancies, and he is right. Where is the clause, as long as we are talking about Greek State guarantee, so that there will be no redundancies? Of course, there is also a wider issue here. The Minister for Development is also present, of course, Mr Georgiadis, who had been asked about this and rightly replied that the international price of oil is currently rising. It is therefore not presumed that this damage will arise for this company, and as far as we are talking about State aid for the Greek State and guarantees for the Greek State are concerned, the company should have been asked to submit the financial information, which precisely reflect this damage which requires State aid. We haven't seen anything like this. So we do not understand how the government and the Ministry responsible are making progress on this aid, without that information being available and without, of course, guaranteeing the jobs of the workers, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Blonde has the floor. I would like to thank Mr Varoufakis, who gave up his position through my heart.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u90	We asked a question. Will the Minister answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u91	You're right. Mr. Xanthe, I'm sorry. The Foreign Minister, Mr Tagaras, has the floor now to respond to the comments by colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, precisely in order to protect jobs following this disaster from the collapse of prices, this is precisely the aim of maintaining function, because if it closes, we will in fact risk jobs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u93	With will he blackmails the workers to leave! He's actually firing them! Do you have an answer to that or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Lambroulis, let him answer. People will judge how the Undersecretary will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u95	Is this unacceptable with the workers going to continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u96	Answer me. It is not at this moment what you say in my knowledge, so that I can answer you and I am upright. I know, however, that the move that is being made is to keep the company alive and functioning to ensure jobs. What you said I am listening to, but I do not know that at the moment, and I reserve the question you are asking. But I would like to add something else. As far as support is concerned for the operation of the company is concerned, on the one hand, it is the jobs that are very important and on the other hand, if the cost of environmental rehabilitation is closed goes far beyond the support and guarantee costs. Thirdly, for reasons nationally, due to the work carried out in a sensitive area, all three parameters are critical and advocate support for the operation. As far as work is concerned, I am reluctant to do so. I say again that I don't know that, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u98	It was the same question, Mr. Haritsi. He answered you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u99	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but the Minister of Development is next door...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u100	If he asks for the floor, we'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Undersecretary makes one assumption that the company is at risk with closure. Where does this assumption come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u102	Well, that was Mr. Lambroulis' question. He answered you. Let the world judge it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u103	How does this assumption turn out when we have no evidence in our hands to substantiate that the company is indeed...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u104	Good. Mr. Georgiadis will answer you. We must respect Mr. Blonde who is standing and waiting to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u105	But let us see the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u106	It is another the current price of oil that has returned to previous levels...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u107	That's what he told you before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u108	...and another thing about the damage that the company has accumulated since last year, which reminds me of having even reached zero the barrel. So, obviously, last year the company had very great losses in itself. We can't figure it out in the Chamber. The oil had gone zero. Zero!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. Here, Mr. Xanthi, you have the floor. I'm sorry you've been waiting. To thank Mr. Varoufakis again. A few chiefs do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by commenting on this request, which we have raised, the political demand to return to the normality of the parliamentary procedure. There can be no debate, no change and accelerating the return to normality in all the critical areas of economic and social life, and a return to normality in the House. In fact, the government and the Bureau of Parliament must resolve this issue. Furthermore, it is not possible to all return to normal functioning and to call for the public health system to be restored to its regular function, to serve effectively and to serve all other people's health needs. I think this is a critical term to discuss all the rest. Now, as far as the bill is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, as unharmed or possibly flexible as it was, and if it were the cubicity that the New Democracy did and went from the "bang farm" and "bottled jobs", to the recognition, "excuse" and to the abundance, what history will write is the following. Without SYRIZA, without the National Agency for Medicinal Products and in particular its President, Mrs Katerina Antoniou, without the Ministry for Health, without the Ministry for Rural Development, who was a co-rapporteur in the bill that we brought, without the Ministry for Economic Affairs and Development, then and the Ministry for Justice, would not even have opened this debate in the country, not just to discuss productive prospects, but they would have been, as they were, illegally and pharmaceuticals, which until then, of course, have been imported. So this is, I think, a large part which has been done boldly, innovatively and taking into account good international practices and taking carefully, but I think it is well established steps. So we did what the experts were proposing to us at the time - and you are all saying that you are listening to the experts - we did what the patients, their associations, and, of course, we did what all the developed countries in the world did and that was compatible with international literature, with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation, etc. Your reflexes are remembered and we must not forget them. Was this a sufficient framework? No need to update and amend? Apparently we do. I read that in other countries, 20 changes have been made to the framework, because the data are changing and obviously there is a need for flexibility in adapting to an emerging market. There's a danger here. The danger is that there should be a one-sided approach to the export of intermediate and not finished cannabis medicinal products abroad and, at the same time, a direction leading to the importation of finished cannabis medicinal products into our country. That is what I think will be problematic and it must be institutionally shielded. The solution that could be proposed is to allow, with a flexibility in the existing framework, synergy between productive farming groups and initiatives and investment schemes with the domestic production of medicines in our country, which has the know-how, which can easily be adapted and the added value of our country remains, of high-skilled jobs. There's a problematic choice. It is the migration of tetrahydrocannabinol from Table C to Table D. It is not the case what the rapporteur of the New Democracy Mr Kelles said that this serves the need for these products to be accessible from the pharmacies. We from Table A took it to the beginning in Table B and then in Table C, and it is absolutely guaranteed, and indeed, with an important reform, which was the e-prescription of opioid analgesics, benzodiazepines and cannabis medications, is completely controllable in the context of prescribing and administering these medicines and via pharmacy. What is needed is greater flexibility and a partnership - this is our proposal - between the state monopoly and the Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Technology, IFET, which is what we are saying, the state store and which can really be made easier by this partnership for two public bodies to introduce into this phase and later for the patients of these products. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There are also institutional loose ends. The main institutional reluctance is to deal with issues relating to patients' access to these products, which must obviously be done in medically substantiated terms. Patients' registries, registries, and prescribing doctors' records of specific specialities are also needed, ensuring that the framework of administration and use is fully based on scientific criteria. Of course, there is a need for a national cannabis pharmaceutical body, which will take over overall supervision of the project. So the framework can be set. I heard today's positions, unfortunately, on the side of the JRC and through his Secretary-General, which restored the philosophy of the previous debate three years ago. I read the Minutes. The same arguments. Déjà von normal! The same arguments. That theory of the stages, of the premiere, of the ferry. It's really, totally unscientific and anachronistic and over-conservative socially this whole story. Dependence is a complex biopsy-social phenomenon, it concerns drugs, but it also concerns legal substances such as alcohol, gambling and the Internet and requires a holistic approach, from prevention to reduction of damage and, of course, rehabilitation and reintegration. Confusing the use of cannabis with these conditions - let me say the term - of the framework that has been set, with the dependence and the illegal use of these substances, in my view is incredible strife. It does not contribute to political dialogue in the country. Political dialogue was tragic when we brought this bill. Nowhere in Europe has the public debate been held, with such conditions of fear, of killing and of triggering overconservative reflexes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u111	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u112	We, therefore, do not have the patent syndrome, nor the justice syndrome. That is why we have a peak at this time - I am making a brief reference to vaccines - to liberate the patent of supposed copyright in the pharmaceutical industry so that it can be accessed in an equal and timely manner throughout the world. When what we have put as a print, an institutional, legislative one, is being promoted, we have no problem supporting it and recognising it. In any case, I think that in this case too, but also in many others, historical justice is slowly coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u114	You said you'd answer everyone in total, and you've answered everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u115	It is important to answer Mr Xanthos, as he was Minister of Health and he has shaped the framework that we are discussing today. Mr President, first of all I congratulate you on the public post on 'AstraZeneca' and vaccination. I thought it was a very good message. We have told the committee - you were not here - that the legislation on the agency is being prepared. It's going to be a cannabis organization. Legislatively, however, it was not possible to get into the law, which is an amendment of the Narcotics Act, and it must come into a separate bill. So, in a separate bill, the national agency for cannabis medicinal products will come, in the way that you said before, and we want to do everything we can to regulate all the issues. I say so she won't stay in the air. I could say too much. I will say it in my speech, anyway, so that I do not repeat the same. But I would like you to have a greater bravery, and I will say why. Is there any one of us who hasn't changed some of his political positions, which he said as opposition, when he became a government? Do you want me to start taking them one - one?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u116	No, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u117	I'll tell you in my speech one - one, if you like. So you come here to something that we can agree to do to make something good for patients too, to accept that as a doctor you care much more, and for the economy, and instead of being able to work together to do this, we are discussing something completely second, which will only force me to waste time on my speech to mention fifty issues that SYRIZA said before and after others. That is not the essence of politics. The essence of politics is to be here and to have the courage to act as to how each of us obviously perceives in its ideology and political path in the interests of the Greek people. If we happen to agree somewhere, the world is not broken, because we are not enemies, we are rival ideological. But we're both trying to do good for the Greeks. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much. The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Giannis Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the eyes and the soul in Corinthia and the destruction we have at the moment, I think that all of us are sending our solidarity, both to the people and to the forests that are burning, but we of Merra25 will insist on the amendment we are tabling, at least to ensure that there is no land change in the poor areas for the next thirty years. I would like to believe that other political groups, especially one day like today, will support this. Before entering the subject of cannabis treatment, as regards the amendment, I heard your Minister, Mr Georgiadis, say to the questions of the Parliamentary representatives of the JRC and SYRIZA that he does not know at the moment, he has no information about what is going on with the employees of ENERGEAN. We have just had telephone contacts with workers' representatives, who have clearly told us that they are being announced today that fifty of them are being fired and fifty are being put out into contraction. I understand that the Minister does not have information. Until information is obtained, let him withdraw the amendment and bring it back only when he comes here to tell us that the 90.5 million guarantees that will go to the banks and 9.5 to the bond loan will come under the conditions that this redundancy of workers and their conversion into contractors will not take place. Until you are informed, withdraw what you say is based on lack of information. So now I come to the subject of cannabis healing. But before I get to cannabis therapy, I want to say two - three words about the position of Mera25 on substances, one of which is cannabis. Ladies and gentlemen, throughout the world this debate, dialogue, usually ends up in a tide between two evils, a Scylla and a Harybdis. The Scylla of suppression on one hand and Harybden on the other. We in Mera25 think that even this is fictitious, because the biggest gift to the trader of a banned substance is the greatest repression. The greatest repression in terms of finance - do you like, Mr Georgiadis, speaking in terms of supply and demand - what is he doing? It increases the price by reducing the supply of the substance. By increasing the price, the over-profits of the mafia are increasing. So, basically, this debate between repression and trade ends up in a debate between policies that support the over-profits of a mafia and policies that support the over-profits of the multinationals, which many people would like, now that tobacco disappears because of the successful - fortunately successful - anti-smoking campaign, to replace tobacco growing with the cultivation of anything else that can, from cannabis to cannabis, as well as whatever it may be. Our position as Mera25 is clear and brave, because it also has political costs: Total decriminating use and no commercialization in the offer. You'll tell me how this can be done. Decriminate on one hand the use and not merchandise the offer. Let me give you an example to help discuss this. The adoption of children is not a criminalised procedure. That doesn't mean we're buying kids and selling them. The same must apply to substances, substances that may have side effects, which may also lead to addiction. Decriminalization is the biggest blow to the mob. It is the only way to make the whole uncool process, which young people say, to "uncool" it, by throwing it at zero. It's the only way to hit the luben mafia and, at the same time, not to reinforce the other mafia of the multinational companies that would do what they did with tobacco. It's a whole conversation. We're not going to do it now, because your bill can't stand that kind of serious conversation, it's about something very specific to which I'm going to come. But so, to be clear, the place of Mera25 is neither suppression, which is the gift to the local mafia, nor the commercialisation you bring today, which is a gift to the oligarchy of the multinationals. And I'll explain what I mean. First of all, you will allow me to make an advertising of part of the pre-conference dialogue between Mera25. On Monday we will have a big event, to discuss exactly this, how you can create a political and social process to offer these substances, to produce, for example, cannabis in Greece, without handing over this process to the trade in multinationals. Now we're going to the healing cannabis thing. First of all, I have heard you say, Mr Georgiadis, that you will put the procedure for the authorisation of medicinal products in our country ahead of us. I will tell you what I just said to your colleague. Until you do this, withdraw this bill. Take the first change in the institutional framework for hemp treatment for Greeks and then come to discuss the production of hemp. You have done exactly the opposite, and we know very well why. Because you are enjoying and acting out of specific multinational interests that are currently in need of "health and water", to produce as quickly as possible what Greek cancer patients are not allowed today to have, healing cannabis that helps them in particular in a period of chemotherapy with nausea, with pains, with lack of appetite, the Greeks and Greeks who suffer from multiple sclerosis, which helps them to reduce spasm, epilepsy, people suffering from Parkinson, from dementia, from sleep disturbances. All of them must hear from you what you are going to do to have access to the healing cannabis before you bring this bill. What we see at Mera25 is that it's excellent, if you think about it, that combination. Keep the repression alive for domestic society and license the use of Greek land and water, a field cheap for multinationals, to export. Those parties that you are voting in favour, even at first, of this bill, do not support cannabis healing, you support the multinationals who demand "Greek land and water" - let us not forget that this cultivation - and the export of the added values from Greece - is particularly watery. Come on, because your bill, Mr. Georgiadis, really cannot stand up to serious debate, to talk about the use of cannabis for therapeutic reasons and other reasons in Greece, about how we will really be brave and then we are discussing what you want to discuss with today's bill. Mr. Blonde put it before. There's an entire philology. Indeed, Mr. Xanthe, you are right. We are going back many years, in a debate that should have ended on addiction and repression, what you have said, that it is the lobby and everything else. We are clear about this. Ethnicism is dangerous. It's not solved through repression. In fact, it accelerates and strengthens through the suppression that increases prices, gives a glorious glorious glorious field to luben mafias and, at the same time, gives a sense of accurate infractionality to young children. But because I have a little time and I'm talking about addiction, I want to talk now about your addiction, ladies and gentlemen of the government. And I am not saying 'collapsing' as a whole. I'm talking about the government. You show an extremely interesting and dangerous addiction to a bad habit of the past of this society, this state and, in particular, of the occupants. If you ask anyone - I think - and from New Democracy people - because Greece went bankrupt in 2010, the answer you will give most - and it is right - is that so many years ago for the first or second reason - we do not now get into distribution and distribution of blame - you had a Greek economy based on a non-viable, non-viable lending from abroad, whether from the state or from the banks, and that money was not productive investment. This money basically worked side by side and oligarchically on the other side. If you remember, when the bubble broke out in 2010, not only in Greece but in other eurozone countries, everyone came out - after a holiday - and said what some people said earlier years ago, that we had been confused by the very low interest rates by 2009, by 2010, which gave us the feeling that whether the German state or the Greek state borrowed is the same thing. Does this story remind you of anything? You're celebrating that you have low market interest rates. The only reason you have low interest rates is that there is a Central Bank, which has taken EUR 23 billion bonds, bought them and will take another 12. That's why you have low interest rates. You have become addicted too, like the previous ones before 2008-2010, to the cheap loan and you want to convince us, as the previous ones of both the New Democracy and PASOK wanted, that we have shielded Greece. Do you remember Mr. Horse Skuffy? Mr. Simitis, do you remember him? Hard core of the euro. The same nonsense they were saying at the time on the basis of low interest rates, you are telling us today. You're addicted to the loan. The Greek State is constantly receiving loans, while the previous non-viables are viable and do not need, he says, restructuring, haircut of previous loans. So we tell you from Mera25 that this addiction has no treatment either from cannabis or from anything else. We must at least rethink your MPs. Because you're no longer a government, you're an anonymous company. We call you "Metsotakis S.A.". You're in the biscuits. And what do you care? Will it last a year, two years, three years? You will leave then and there will be no recognition after removal from the fund, as was the case with previous Oligarchal governments. We know very well what that meant. But we are telling you this and we are putting the alarm on you fellow Members and others. In the next statistics coming out of the German Federal Government, you will see that there will be a 4% inflation in Germany. It doesn't matter. I personally wouldn't be worried if I was German, because prices fell, come back. I tell you one, ladies and gentlemen, of collusion, that the political system in Germany will panic with 4%. The messages in Frankfurt will be parallel. The bonds that you now sell and you are glad that interest rates are low will not continue to be purchased after February 2022 by the European Central Bank. It's over. At a time when interest rates will begin to bite - in general, not only for Greek bonds - then the strips will begin to be drawn: the fifth memorandum, which they will not say so, will come from one side. Auxiliary pensions forget about them, they'll start cutting. Again, taxation will begin to rise and will take place with orders from Brussels that have taken orders from Berlin for the simple reason that at some point the financial relaxation of the pandemic is over and then you will find yourself in the same situation as the Memorandum of New Democracy and PASOK in 2009-2010. This addiction is an addiction that Greek society can no longer raise. You created a debt-saving colony that is increasingly sinking into non-viable debt, both the public and the private, with the same arguments as before 2009 that you were baking and trying to convince the Greek people, saying "Don't be afraid, interest rates are low, it's all sustainable." With the same arguments you will come to the same dead end, and then you will remember us. But once again, as you did then, you will go out and say yourself, who predict the sustainability of the debt, as was the case with PASOK in 2010, which was then happy for the PSI, you will come to tell us how important a new debt restructuring is, since of course, the burdens are lifted by the workers once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much for keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u122	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, you mentioned two or three times in your speech, saying: 'Your bill is incapable of any serious criticism and I cannot have any serious debate with you'. Indeed, we have not reached your level of seriousness and we cannot reach this level of communication with the accuracy of the information. However, because, although an economist, you said that the only reason why we have low interest rates is the European Central Bank and the bonds markets that it does, Mr President, and it is nice, when we speak in the House, to know what we say, because sometimes the qualifications of university teachers do not make a difference. I read in this House an article from the newspaper "NAYTEMORIC" on February 12, 2020, that is a month before the beginning of the pandemic in Greece. It is the last time that Greece came out on the market before COVID, before we joined the QE of the European Central Bank, before the European Central Bank begins buying massive Greek bonds. I read: 'The country that needed three rescue plans in a decade is now borrowing' - is, I repeat, February 2020, one month before the pandemic started - 'at a rate of less than 1%. This is how international agencies and foreigners welcomed the decline in the yield of the 10-year state bond up to 0.985%, mentioning a milestone and a clear vote of confidence by investors towards the prospects of the Greek economy and others and others. In other words, the fall in the borrowing rate of the ten-year Greek bond under 1% took place before the pandemic and before the measures of the European Central Bank. This was forgotten by the prominent professor of finance, Mr Varoufakis, who teaches us seriousness in Parliament and during whose term of office, Mr President, I close - when there was the same Minister of National Economy in Greece, the loan rate in Greece was over 15%. This man who, when he took the wheel in his hands, reached the loan rate more than 15%, talks to us about seriousness. We know who is to blame: a good friend of mine - I will not say his name in the House, because he may not want - that many people are joking with each other and who once helped to become a university teacher, and he obviously did not deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Minister. Parliamentary spokesman from the Change Movement, Mr Konstantinos Scandalidis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to come back, before I speak and say a few things about the bill, to the major issue that was raised yesterday and which is repeated today. I believe that yesterday's irrationalism is repeated. Political goals are obvious, legitimate in the political game: Come to vote on your law, we incite you, but we will not participate if you do not change the previous decision on the functioning of the Parliament. There is also a change from the government, which, through the Bureau of Parliament, announces that the SYRIZA Members will be able to come today with their own presence and vote. This is changing, of course, the original decision, which was in force until now. This makes the new hand error first. Here's a thing. Does the Bureau of Parliament consider that this procedure that we voted on through parliamentary procedures should be changed, and should we come back or did it be time for us to return to the personal presence in the roll-call vote? To come and say it very well and to change decision. The political game in the parliamentary institutions is unacceptable and cannot be based on similar practices. I am rereading what has been written for many days, the so-called division of the Group of the Party of European Socialists with the different positions supported by some of our Members in yesterday's debate and that my speech yesterday was simply to overcome the problem. There is no more superficial and no more characteristic unacceptable to the information process itself, when a party's political speech is characterised by the interests of newspapers, parties and other foreign procedures with democracy and real information. We are in favour of a stable principle that complex, difficult social problems do not enter into party discipline. When you cannot resolve a question that concerns millions of people, which is extremely unique and unreasonable, you cannot deal with political debate and with a problem that runs the whole social spectrum, but also with all the parties' wings, take a position that is absolute and raise issues of party discipline. Today, therefore, we reiterate our position yesterday, which is a position of principle and defence of Parliament and its procedures and defence, as Mr Andreas Loverdes said, of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. We are in favour of voting on the draft law in principle. However, we refuse to participate in the repeated ridicule and defuse of parliamentary procedures. This attitude will be for the next few days and for the next few weeks, to respond to what the President of the SYRIZA put forward - quite rightly - as a major problem with democracy. Democracy means rules and protection of Parliament and its functions. We do not care if yesterday in the bill we were against Articles 7 and 13 which the government brought, so against the government, and today we are in favour of the vote, so we are in favour of the government. Here, then, the Change Movement one day is with New Democracy and the other is with SYRIZA. Will this corn ever stop? That's the question. Will you allow us to have our opinion and be judged on the basis of what we are voting on and what we are saying? I have no great hopes, because political games are played on other terms at a time when they should be played otherwise. It's okay. Here we are for the future. On the bill, I would like to say that, as for so many other issues that are critical and complex social problems, the issues that have been raised for the conservative faction have for many years been foreign and far from the established, solid and traditional consciousness of the social and, above all, the party base, which is now required by the things and developments to show a more progressive person, we believe that the Government and the Minister's initiative is positive, but, in our opinion, you are dealing with these issues at the same time and at the same time medium-sized and medium-sized ones. The reluctance of Members to be present is characteristic. I must welcome the self-criticism of the government and the Minister and his positive intention to follow up and resolve a real problem, despite the rabies reaction just three years ago on a respective legislative initiative, which we also voted on by the SYRIZA Government. The solution you give, as it says, aims at producing, exporting, disposal of finished cannabis medicinal products and trying to overcome the complex procedures and unnecessary bureaucracy which, unfortunately, the gaps in the previous law have not allowed them to be dealt with. You bring a draft law, to show that you understand the multiple economic benefits and global investment and business interest, which admittedly have the specific products on the world market. You therefore aim to introduce a new attractive framework for the producer and investor by simplified procedures. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are failing to simplify and broaden the production process by limiting trade on the domestic market, focusing only on exports, where problems arise and above all by maintaining patient accessibility to these substances, which has proved to be how great therapeutic benefits have been in chronic and persistent conditions. In this draft I would like to make a few very brief comments: firstly, this project, unfortunately, is not of a weak centre character, as our rapporteur has said. In other words, it does not bring any provisions that really facilitate patients' access to these medicines, pushing them back into illegality or becoming victims of shame. Yes, but for the first time these products are made available in pharmacies and private clinics, but we are talking only about end products and not about the whole range of products, which have a huge variety, such as oils, extracts and others, which creates a problem in the domestic market and does not allow further expansion of business for someone who wants to sell here rather than abroad. The arrangements of the draft law therefore focus on the export section and only final products, automatically limiting trade, while its purpose, according to the Ministry, is to disconnect investment and economic activity. You anticipate two licensing stages in the process, an approval and an operation, substantially increasing bureaucracy, while your supposed purpose is to speed up procedures. The cultivation of these products is considered to be quite energy-intensive. It is therefore foreseen that a renewable power plant will be installed and operated. We propose that this potential provision be made compulsory. Of course, I have to say that they are referred to common decisions, as usual, ministerial decisions, a number of essential provisions, which are the central theme of the draft law, as it is written on terms and conditions of scope, establishment and operation, and further documents. This will, in our view, create new delays. Finally, this draft law does not provide for the setting-up of an independent and autonomous national body, as we have proposed, which would address all these issues and is a consistent and universal demand for all operators. The Ministry of Development has announced that it will bring it into a separate draft law. It's worth wondering, because you always bring a step half-finished instead of bringing what you're thinking about bringing in a while. In two months you will bring climate law, in three months you will bring the next law, in four months something else. Step by step. This is not the case with legislative work. There must be integrated holistic approaches. Ladies and gentlemen, at the outset the Change Movement, while remaining faithful to the attitude it had taken and in 2018, votes positively, not only to show political responsibility and consistency, but also because we are interested in defending and supporting legislative initiatives that can at least relieve weak social groups and patients, suffering from long-term pains and diseases as - as they have said before - the hardening of plates, depression, type 1 diabetes, stress, nausea, chemo-therapies and much more. Producers and addressing these problems cannot be judged on the basis of business and profit alone, namely who is behind them, who benefits in our future, how people's health is currently directly benefiting from this process. I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u126	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u127	So we need to be clear about this, because it is worth staying close to a society that has huge problems, which are exacerbated by the pandemic, where permanent, long and timely illnesses are treated with much less - if you really want - efficiency from a national health system which cannot respond to the needs. And that's why the government has a great responsibility. So we stay close to these people and do everything possible. It is only in this light that our vote in favour at first instance enables the government to go further, but, ladies and gentlemen of the government, more quickly, more reformative. These are not reforms. Faster, more reformative, more holistic, more radical, more far-reaching, these need a new era. You're still going with araba, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr Scandalides, for keeping time. As I take part in the Conferences of Presidents, there is no change in the decision on the debate that has taken since yesterday in this Chamber. After the amendment of the Rules of Procedure on 2-10-2020, all the votes were allowed to take place either physically or on a voluntary basis. Proof that, in all the nominal rapporteurs, the Parliamentary Representatives, the Ministers and the Members who wish to vote on their card, are leaving them. I have also voted for the "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK", those who were with a card entered and voted on a regular basis. The choice of epitome or physical presence is and has always been a matter of congressman. The only restriction - it can be done today, perhaps - is that they are not in the Chamber for more than fifty together. So if they come in a hundred and twenty, they won't all come in together. They'll slow down, they'll get 20, they'll get ten. That's right. From that point on, I cannot understand what is happening since yesterday. Of course, Mr Tsipras also described it as hypocrisy in the President's words. This note - clarification I wanted to make. We're going to New Democracy, to the Cycladic Mr. Philipbo Loading. Here, Mr. Loading, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law, which comes to Parliament today, gives immediate solutions, but also amends the existing legislation on the export, disposal and movement of finished cannabis products, mainly pharmaceuticals. It therefore introduces special regulations and interventions, which, in conjunction with the already existing framework of Law 4139/2013, strengthens the production process and the development of our own exports of the finished products of cannabis medication and for our country, with a sense of responsibility towards the patients who need them, but also with a spirit of support mainly for entrepreneurs. I have heard my major anti-population colleagues call us for so-called cowardice, but also for steamyness, exposing the 2018 bill and blaming us for opposition allegedly darkening then and for delays in the legislature today. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point, I think we should give ourselves some honest answers because the Greek people are also watching us. There must be freedom of will for man, which must be protected from a very specific legal framework and the substance must not be abused, which is also what this draft law does. At world level, we see that the use of hemp for particular reasons - slowly tends to be legitimised. It would be unthinkable for a civilised, but also supposedly an open society, as we consider Greek, to have banned all these cannabis products for at least pharmaceutical reasons. It is worth remembering, and this is an answer to both PASOK and its rapporteur that in October 1990, the late Manos Hatzidakis supported the decriminalisation of drugs for users, which was very advanced at the time. The New Democracy and its youth were therefore the political forces, who at the time dared and openly talked about how to deal with and the scourge of drugs, but also about the priority of prevention against the crackdown on social reintegration of users, to deal with them as patients, but also about the need for cooperation with other countries. In the recent past, in fact SYRIZA as a government brought Law 4523 entitled ‘Provisions on the production of hemp finished products and other provisions’. The more general and vague the title, the more general, the more vague its content was then. It was a law, which allowed everything to be regulated by common ministerial decisions, a law which in every article had ambiguity. He didn't specialize in anything, and he didn't explain anything. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, I have raised to the Minutes of this House and to the committees at the time, in order to understand what darkness we were accusing of and have seen questions raised, which have never been answered by you, ladies and gentlemen. The new Republic therefore initially supported the use of cannabis medicinal products, but at the same time asked for guarantees on the other procedures. It was calling for an integrated framework, which we are bringing today. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2018 you brought this bill just to bring it, just to justify to a public audience what you think you represent exclusively. That's what you did. You have then brought us a bill of clipping and essentially written in the foot, which did not stand up to such a qualified and sensitive sector of activity as the whole production and export of the final preparations. Now you're accusing us of alleged disarming? Obviously, to cover your own shortcomings and your own governance at that time. The time taken, of course, and all the delays that have been made, from this step forward today, until we have introduced this draft law into the committee and also to the plenary, I believe, as far as is necessary, to have an integrated examination on the subject so that all the parameters can be investigated so that there is no gap and nothing left. We did it. In fact, we amend Law 4139/2013 and add specific and strictly defined regulations, without ambiguity, avoiding various allegedly misappropriated windows. In this respect, we set conditions specific to the approval of establishment and operation of processing units. We are introducing the placement of farming areas, which you should have done in the first place. We are talking about exporting, extending the whole process and bringing European standards. Finally, we set specific conditions for domestic production and the circulation of finished cannabis medicinal products. This is all done today, ladies and gentlemen, by the Government of New Democracy. This bill promotes the objectives we have set from the outset as an exception, but also as a government, growth, investment, job growth and, at the same time, protects the industry and agriculture and the processing. However, it is mainly a bill by which Greece is now included in the countries, which will be able to produce products, mainly medicinal cannabis, which contribute to the relief or even the treatment of many patients. Ladies and gentlemen, our country must finally invest literally in this area, extend its exports and speed up all procedures. This legislative initiative by this government also sets out clear conditions, but also specific conditions for the healthy development of a strong industrial export base, a new market, particularly with important prospects, in which our country can and must take the lead. For all these reasons, I invite you to vote on it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Loading. From New Democracy to SYRIZA, to Evangelos Apostolos from Evia. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Let me refer to the amendment on forest maps. Mr Minister, please tell your colleagues that there is absolutely nothing to offer to them about this amendment. As the situation on forest maps has been established, only one path has been taken before them - this is a one-way path - to comply with the three decisions of the Council of State, which have rejected all the procedures that have taken since the suspension of the forest maps. And my second intervention is related to the fires. Ladies and gentlemen, prevention and early intervention are what is missing. That's why small fires are giggled. When the state does not plan and implement on the basis of these parameters, namely prevention and early intervention, we are going to find ourselves in such situations. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the bill we are discussing. Today we will take things from the beginning, but without unnecessary regressions. Following the release of the use of cannabis in 2017 for medical reasons, we considered it appropriate with my partners at the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, since we had relevant experience and know-how from cultivating industrial cannabis, to deal with the cultivation of pharmaceuticals for the production of finished medicinal cannabis products. Indeed, with the cooperation of the Ministry of Health, we have worked out an innovative bill, knowing well that it would be the objective of warfare, even though we have guaranteed control of the production process from the supply of raw materials to the final product, because it was actually requested at that time. But when, in March 2018, we brought the bill to the House, the New Democracy with its Parliamentary Representative, with its rapporteur and other speakers - Members, it actually exceeded every limit. You have fought us, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, rabies. You dealt with us with smuggling, irony and intelligence as if we were legislating for Escobar, El Chapo and the illegal teenages. That was the first finding. Of course, I cannot ignore the positive views expressed at the time by the Democratic Integration, Potami and the Centron Association. The second finding was that society was much closer, it was more open than conservative political and party forces, let alone when there was a need to allow Greek patients to obtain this medicine without obstacles. This need, stress, was present. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The third finding is that there has been a very great investment interest. We had meetings with many representatives of Greek and foreign companies, which seemed to have brought the ninety-four permits granted to eleven regions of the country and the additional sixteen requests submitted so far. But the following year, in 2019, where implementation of the law would begin, there was a delay. In fact, other countries from Portugal to northern Macedonia have lost valuable time - you know, Minister, the neighbouring country, as your Minister says - have taken steps forward. Especially since New Democracy came to the government, I've been loaded with all these prejudices I've told you about was looking for. If you were to judge, Minister, that further arrangements were needed, why did you not proceed with the adoption of the joint ministerial decisions provided for by the authorizing provisions of Article 19 of our law? With the limited level of intervention that you are trying today, it is unsatisfactory to conclude that the existing framework, ladies and gentlemen of the new Republic, which you have described as inadequate, is entirely adequate and successful. Although we agree with the basic provisions that you have introduced, you will be judged by the fact that you have been delayed when you had all the institutional and legislative instruments so that investments can proceed quickly. You could start first by withdrawing from the drawers all pending requests and moving the procedures for examining approvals. However, I think it is not too late. We can, if we move decisively, win any lost ground. We have a second chance in front of us, and we must boldly go. The thirty grams finally proposed by the Greek Medicines Agency - why not? - sixty, not to destroy the classicanthia, not to raise the cost of packaging any more. Let the pharmacy abroad be able to make their preparations, as the legislation of the respective states provides. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little tolerance, one more minute, Mr President. To enable Greek pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries to buy oil raw material and a dry bloom for both patient medicines and treatment products. Of course, this requires support from the research. To make it easy for Greek patients to access the market for cannabis medicinal products and not to represent the Greek puppet in the logic of "strengthening evil, we send it out and have a quiet conscience". There's no harm. We must be bold in a good that will help people's health. We, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, will support and help. That is why we have not only voted for your bill, but also tabled an amendment setting the bar not only for expectations but also for results. So welcome, ladies and gentlemen, in fact! Of course, you will have more chances in the next period! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. Mr Charalambos Papadimitriou has the floor from New Democracy. Then the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece will speak. Here, Mr. Papadimitriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I can see, a lot of people are missing from SYRIZA's side. I imagine we'll see you more often in the next few days. I thought you'd all be present today. So I heard yesterday at least. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think there is a misunderstanding about the issue that the always hard-working former Minister has raised, in other words, as to why I personally had taken a stand - I was not a Member at that time and had other degrees of freedom - in favour of your attempt to bring this framework. But perhaps we have not agreed where the reaction is and where it is, if you like, the disagreement. The dispute is now either: Or you bring in a framework of functionality that opens the way to a new productive effort, so also export and processing, or you are simply making an effort that leaves an enormous issue open, which must be discussed by society and society, before we take the next step. This is about the difference between the healing and the recreational quality of this very beautiful plant. So that is what was lacking in politics and which has also created a great deal of confusion. You have not made the effort that should have been made to come, as today, and to discuss collectively and listen to the remarks made by the dissidents, who have their own value. I am referring specifically to the remarks made by the Secretary-General - which are absolutely correct - on the issue of people who have a problem with their dependence and how they should be helped. Therefore, we should have this climate that has been cultivated in the Chamber today, the climate of agreement and the effort to give greater production and more jobs. There are calculations that within twelve years - I think it will be much faster - we can from 60 million of the value we now have to go to 1.2 billion and work for about ten thousand people. We cannot afford to leave anything unexploited. Also, Minister, I think that the draft law would have been more complete if, apart from exports, it gave more potential for growth and domestic production. In the next few years, however, the New Democracy will have time to fix this too, after all my fellow Members have been convinced that it is a positive step. Because, you know, there's a privilege to this side, which I didn't imagine was so much, the privilege of disagreement. Mr. Comrade, don't use the mask's privilege. I understand you're laughing. But I think that you, too, have come in this nice situation, that we can talk and even disagree in public. Therefore, we must quickly understand what the countries that compete with us in this regard are. When you have Malta next door, which reduced the tax rate to 5%, to quickly take this job of processing and internationalisation of a thing, which is now necessary with all the decisions of approved international organisations in many of our unfortunate fellow citizens at a difficult time in their lives, I think we should take the step quickly. So we're in the right direction. I don't have much to say, because it's simple and there's a deal. What we are concerned about is, therefore, that I believe that even Mr Varoufakis' resignation should support it, because it is very right to observe what land will be used for and what purpose. But, Minister, I think you have prevented it and you have put the limitations that are needed so that there is no extensive cultivation where there is to be a different crop, which the Secretary-General also pointed out. So, we are on a good path, so good that sometimes the dissident will say - why is there always people who disagree - to the people 'Irish there in Parliament have agreed something secret, something that we might have to find out?' I would not say that we have reached the point of enjoying all the goods, because it is not necessary and it is not appropriate. However, the truth is that the House is progressing, as far as it takes reasonable and human steps, that is, steps that a person can take - he described them as a very nice majority rapporteur - steps that need to go further. We made an important step yesterday, we take one and the other today, and we can go down and open up new courses of discussion on agreements and disagreements. Let us also look at the experience of other states. At this point, it makes no sense to compete with Skopje. It is more reasonable to compare with Spain. For example, in France there is a madness. It is perhaps one of the states that use more than any other state to have a good time. But, a few days ago, the Interior Minister said 'not even think about it' and France has been forced to allow what we are doing in coordinates. Even there they don't have a frame. However, Spain is a competitive country in many areas, including tourism, and the healing and healing skills that can be developed. So we have to look at those who really compete with us. It is a step in a direction that will continue in the next few months. We have the ability to move forward quickly. Let's not lose her! Minister, I think this bill is exactly what we do, we don't miss this opportunity. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr Papadimitriou, especially for keeping time. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. We could say that today is an important day. It is the establishment of a company of New Democracy - SYRIZA and KINAL with Mr. Georgiadis, CEO Mr. Karanika and titled "Physa, Rufa, press him, light and cafton"! That's the point. Mr. Papadimitriou, listen to me and compare with arguments. I call it humorous for people to understand what's going on today. Apart from 'us', which we are in another direction and others that are in another direction, we now have a symphony of the main political forces, I will say it rawly in the interests of the multinationals, who exist anyway, and, secondly, in the solution of the breasts. And I say it like that! To speak, then, more specifically, this concerns a large part of the people, especially the victims of drugs, whether they are themselves users or their families and relatives, but also all those who see in their neighbourhoods, in the center of Athens, sad images of impoverished people who are a step before the grave. Any parents - who are hundreds of thousands - live with anguish and fear that their children will not be on this road, on a road that often has no return, as you know very well, but who do not care - because you have other criteria and other values - as you all know, the JRC has been at the forefront of the fight against drugs for years, against the current, in cooperation with the victims, with their families, with the healing centers. We are therefore raising our voice from this step, not from the point of view of you - it is in vain now, because the decisions are given and I will explain them below - we say: not all drugs. There are neither soft nor hard. They're all drugs together. Life is claiming and not living with doses in the world of hallucinations. On the multiple deadlocks facing our people today, especially young children, because of the barbaric capitalist system. What are you telling us, really? How do the children of the people's families live? How do they view the future? What do they have for sure? Nothing! In a capitalist jungle system, inhuman, cruel, literally wanting meat, either capitalist profit or war. In all these, then, who are consciously pushing - perhaps not so - youth on the path of hallucinations, there is an answer. There is the overthrow of this system. There are all the possibilities, we tell young people - those who listen to us - and workers who live with happiness in the world of senses rather than hallucinations, enjoy what they demand and can be met today, enjoy human culture in a happy life, in a social system that meets and can meet the current needs of youth. In this fight we call on him, in a system that in the centre will have man rather than capitalist gain, ladies and gentlemen, servants of capitalism, when 1% of the world's population owns more than 60% of world GDP. You support this society and you have no hesitation, serving their interests, even throw it into drugs, in the name of development. Ladies and gentlemen, aren't you ashamed? The future of Greece in the chassis? I'm going to make a few more arguments. Is its development perspective and geostrategic position the drug trafficking centre, in a legitimate way, in fact? You're making fun of the world and the farmers. Aren't you embarrassed? What will you do to the farmers? You're gonna have them grow chassis? They can't. The multinationals will eat them. So we say that we insist and say that life is the judge. I do not want to say that everything you say is bullshit, but they are being disguised by reality itself. Well, don't you see what's going on across the capitalist world? You don't see the rot, do you not smell it? Did you lose the smell because of a coronary? Can't you see what's going on in your patterns in America? Guys, they're killing another 15-year-old kid. In America drugs have crossed every limit. I'm talking about America, not to mention the Netherlands, where they sell it in the booths, in the cafes and everything else. What are they serving? The human pain, ladies and gentlemen? Is that what they are serving, Minister? Explain to us about all the countries you have standards. Where are they at this point? We will therefore ask some questions for the people to be judged mainly by young people. Of course, we also have the hope that people here might think. First question: What is the bill? It's always the road that SYRIZA opened. Headquarters! Left! On the left of the pot, the chaos, the culture, the freedom to do our bodies what we want and on that we are obliged, we are responsible and have no society responsible for how it is disciplined.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u136	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u137	Let it go! Don't challenge me! I'll say more! I'm going on and we can see that. Go to the festivals to see what you're talking about in youth - yours I mean, because ours are different - how do you discipline them: Escape from everyday life, pulling cigarettes! That's the story.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u138	You say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u139	If you keep going, I'll say much worse!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u140	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u141	So I'm saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u142	No one has interrupted Mr. Pallis for so long. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u143	We are not interrupting anyone, Mr President, unless there is a fat situation. It's okay. It's from everyone's style. That doesn't matter. What is today supporting the bill, like that of SYRIZA, which was taken off? Mr. Blondie's gone too. I'll see you later, of course. No, he's here. He argues that we need to deal with human suffering and are falsely accused of the Communist Party of Greece having prejudice and fearfulness. Aren't you embarrassed? Such a humiliation, Mr. Xanthi? Is that what you're telling us?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u144	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u145	Such a humiliation! You're telling us we have fear! I wrote it down. That's the way it went down? And you're telling us that we don't take account of Europe? How come we don't take her?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u146	What the Greek Solution says...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u147	We're seeing her! Let go of it! After you went with Kammenos, you'll have a hundred years to talk again. That's what Kammenos said, and you were with the government. We're the opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u148	This is a critical placement. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u149	It's just that unconsciousness sometimes has no limits and I have to say it. The JRC is the rival to drugs. Along with New Democracy, you became "... and panties", people say, in this bill. You're not struggling? Aren't you saying the same thing and you're making us think we're scared? Here, I say arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u150	What's the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u151	Do you know what the worst is? That you distort the position of the JRC. That's too bad! What do we say? I shall read them, as the Secretary-General and our rapporteur have said. We say that the herbal cannabis, because of the large number of active substances it contains - that is what the scientists say - is not the vast majority of which we are not yet aware, because the actions, interactions, side effects of each of them, and their various combinations, have not yet been investigated as a medicinal product as a whole. Who disagrees? Do you disagree, Mr. Xanthi?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u152	We're talking cropping.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u153	Did you hear what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u154	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u155	You're a doctor. Who disagrees? Let him stand up and say it from this position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u156	Go on, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u157	Secondly, we support the fact that these active substances, which are isolated from cannabis, can be linked chemically, as is done in many medicines, that is, artificially, to say that. They could be used for medical, pharmaceutical, comforting purposes in cases where the already existing ones are not sufficient. Who disagrees? Let's get up and say it. This is the official position of the JRC. Third, what do we say? The main condition is to treat active substances as medicinal products, namely their isolation from the plant or their artificial chemical production, and to conduct clinical studies to determine the indications of use of their pharmacokinetic characteristics, their safety profile with other medicines, in order to provide patients with the greatest possible safety and determination. Who disagrees with this position of the JRC and you tell us retarded and dreadful? Fourthly, it is a precondition for this and ensure the safety of patients to be strictly controlled by the State itself in the production, processing, disposal and administration of these medicines, with strict criteria and with psychiatric monitoring of patients who receive it. Who disagrees? Let him get up and say it. And a scientist. I'm not a doctor. There was, then, a institutional framework for all of this to be done? There was, how wasn't there? There was the previous law before the law of SYRIZA, which said a state monopoly in this production of cannabis and all this, strict controls etc. Here are thousands of state acres. Couldn't state production investments be made, instead of money being given to capitalists, on such a sensitive subject? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Second theme: Was there a prescribing option? Stop mocking people. There was before, by the law of 2013, if I'm not mistaken. So, what do you think? So why liberation? That is the big question. Why is this liberalisation going on and private funds go in? Why, since we could solve them differently? And what chapters? American, Canadian, Israeli, with a background of millions. Why? Will jobs be created? How many? Give me an account, Minister, and you're a good technocrat. Is that why? What will Greece win, really, the Greek people, society? Nothing will win. It is precisely because, firstly, the climate conditions of Greece are excellent, secondly, because there is a global interest of riches in making investments for quick profit. You, Mr Papadimitriou, know that this is essential and that the average profit rate has fallen. So they're chasing investments, not on the basis of social needs, but on the basis of where they're going to get more. That is why they are pushing more for the legalisation of the use of the hashish, the Indian cannabis. He read Mr. George Lambroulis, who is a doctor, what those responsible, those who have formed a club, a growers' committee, say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u158	I told the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u159	What are they saying? That in order for the investment to yield - I translate them now - the use must be liberated, the use of the hashish decriminalised. Why do you, ladies and gentlemen, don't you know? Because there's a huge trade. If you want, I'll take another side. Because he tells you after the illegals take them, we'll take them too. How can we do that? With investments, free by fast track processes, with which the profit margins are huge. What's the next step? But good, don't you see? Excuse us, but we can't say you don't know, at least those involved. Those who don't care, read the poem. You don't know what's happened. The first step was that. Step two was decolonisation. In fact, Mr Kelles told us to take the US example. Have you read the evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u161	Since decolonisation, 66%, if I am not mistaken - their own figures, Americans - of students under 15 are smoking. Do you want to go to the Netherlands? 47%. Greece had an honorary position, which you, instead of keeping it, want to destroy. It was last, the last of all, in the use of drugs in young ages. If we look at our elements, in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, which you are saying here, since the conversation started to put the pot on the balcony, that it is innocent of hashish, and what they are saying today, it has risen sharply. The situation that exists today - those who don't know it, it's good to know it, I have kids and I know it - in schools, I, II, III, III grade, they're on break for kids to make buffalo. Is that the future of youth? So, to finish, what is the criterion that you're changing the law? What social needs does this policy serve? What? To use cannabis medication? Sure. You have a state monopoly, you produce it, you have all the checks and you own it. We are talking about 'export' here. What does "export" mean? We're going to export what? The high? In fact, now, it's starting and going to another level, we're talking about bloom. The blossom is the chimpanzee. You call it a bloom, so people don't understand. The criterion is capitalist profits. There's a deeper criterion that I, to be honest, don't put it on everyone. The deepest you know what it is? Better youth than fighting to overthrow capitalist barbarism. If you doubt it, I'll say it again and I've said it before. When the hippies movement became - what I'm telling you has been written by an American...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u162	Finish it, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u163	I'm done. So when it became the hippies movement, which was anti-war, general and abstract, do you know what the CIA did? He threw it into drugs, organized a plan. Because, he tells you, instead of yelling at the war in Vietnam, it's better to make balls and deal with other things, in Matala and elsewhere. That's the reality, that's your system. Finally, let me tell you something else. This caragiozili now here in SYRIZA - I say so, and I insult Karaggiozis - to make a nominal statement in the bill that he agrees, in order to put New Democracy in a difficult position, which some might not agree or do not know what else, is mockery, as is the case with parliamentarians. Anyone who has - not to say what the people say - courage and disagrees, goes out and does so, as Mrs Giannakou came out - if she came out, I didn't see it and I don't know it - and Mrs Kefaloyannis did. Anyone who has a sense of his own duty here and who disagrees with his party is coming out, vote against and if he is serious, resigns and goes down to the next election elsewhere. Not like the one we've lived with with the transcripts, worse than the football teams. So we're not gonna shut our mouths. We call on the people not to listen to you, to understand that it is a disaster for their lives, the use of drugs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Arachovitis has the floor now from SYRIZA, and then the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr. Charalambos Mamoulakis will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while we are discussing this, the staff of the Fire Corps give a very big fight with the fire in Corinthia. We wish it would erase the sooner, set the fire under control, so that we have nothing worse. Several losses are also in the ecosystem, and these losses are estimated, with the first approaches so far, to exceed forty thousand acres. And it's still in May. There's a hot summer coming by as it turns out. Climate change, combined with the abandonment of activities in the countryside, especially in livestock farming, have created different conditions in fire protection. That's how we deal with fire protection. We will not have a micropolicy on burnt-outs, as we do not have a micropolicy on cannabis or our national issues. Ignorance, the fears of the past and the unscientific approaches led a century ago to the depreciation and criminalization of cultivation, both of pharmaceuticals and of cloning cannabis, which, unfortunately, have been back in public debate over recent years. The responsibilities for their reinstatement to the Greek society are mainly borne by the New Democracy, with the attitude it held as an official opposition, which fought immorally and rabies and with extreme verbal terms the legislative initiative of SYRIZA, which is now coming to improve. All this on the altar of voting. All of this in the blender "the cultivation by use". We see it becoming conscious and it is done for specific micro-party reasons, to confuse the cultivation of cannabis medicinal products for export with use. This is the most immoral, the most vulgar for temporary micropolitical gains. But society now has begun to understand and judge us all not only about what we say, but about what we do in everyday life and how we operate politically. At the recent meetings of the committee, the Minister admitted - with a large, of course cynicism - that, here too, the opposition was wrong, as you were doing, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and approaching the Prespecies Agreement, as you were wrong to do, to the stock of 37 billion euros, which you then celebratingly used to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, as you did with public health, which you once made redundant workers and put 5 euros into hospitals, as the New Democracy for vaccine patents did when you said that Mr Tsipras proposed the stateisation of pharmaceutical companies. One, that is, cubism after another, without shame, without guilt, but with a high dose of cynicism leading your Government to disrepute! So today we are also waiting for apologies on this issue, and above all on the rhetoric and smuggling of society with a logic which does not see reality and sacrifices everything in the micro-political and micro-party interests. However, the main stake remains, because this bill highlights the way you have conducted a strong opposition, without a stigma, with impunity, with cynical distortion and verbal extremes, constantly fighting conservative instincts, on the basis of voting alone. You did not hesitate to move in this way and to work in communication even on national issues. But here, at the same time, the way SYRIZA worked and ruled when it was government. We have above all put the national interest in the micro-party benefit. We have put the protection of many and the weakest layers against oligarchy, in the interests of oligarchs. We have preferred to support the real economy against the interlocutory. We preferred social cohesion against impoverishment. We operated on the basis of reducing the disparities compared with the accumulation of wealth in a few and powerful ones. With regard to the bill we are debating today, there was the insight of the SYRIZA Government. He looked at the clear turn of science and research into cannabis medicinal products and the dynamics that cultivation could develop in Greece. The Government of SYRIZA was based on the scientific data and on the contribution of the active substances of cannabis medicinal products to diseases such as epilepsy or as painkiller and soothing in a number of diseases, with fewer side effects of other known medicines. Most medicines, as you know - or you should know - have their roots in plants, opiates, which are used as an antibiotic and as a soothing, of course, for diseases. They have huge side effects, yet they are legally used. Clearly, then, we are always talking under the control of the IFO and the prescribing. Nobody's talking about liberating use. Don't get confused. Fortunately, we did not give in to fear, conservation and darkness, and in 2018, the relevant legal framework was created that now enables us to discuss today how the cultivation of medicinal cannabis on Greek soil can go further. The insight we have shown, as a government, but above all our commitment to the documentation of the conditions created for the cultivation of medicinal cannabis in our country has proved to be really radical and, at the same time, realistic. The comparative advantage was given for the start of investment in Greece, which first created the better institutional framework throughout Europe, so that the applications submitted could represent almost 400 million investments, mobilising the creation of more than two thousand rural jobs and other specialities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes of your tolerance, Mr President. But I would like to dwell on Article 11. The provisions of Article 11 exclude the high productivity land from the possibility of cultivating medicinal cannabis. It is absolutely hypocritical that the Government invoked the relevant case-law of the Council of State for the protection of the environment by a glasshouse when you have allowed large units of up to 1 MW to be installed on high-quality land and, indeed, when the estimated investment in cannabis - that is, the areas that you consider to be binding - are very small. So something else is hiding here. This exemption is an essential brake on the development of the industry. Cannabis pharmaceuticals is an agricultural crop with important irrigation, heating and lighting requirements, as it requires the production of the crop in the greenhouse facilities. You were told at the audience by both geotechnics and university professors, Mr. Bilalis. There is therefore a need for areas of good quality irrigated water and high-voltage power, which are close to large roads for the safe transport of products produced and, at the same time, for the immediate and daily movement of workers to their place of work, because cultivation is not only carried out in the technique of Nutrient Film Technique or other aquatic techniques. Organic cultivation which in recent years has become increasingly attractive and more dynamic requires cultivation on natural soil, as provided for in Regulation 848/2018. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of additional spatial restrictions, in essence, suspends the extension of investments already authorised, but also puts new obstacles to investment activity, for which you are cutting everything you want and to release. It is at least unfair that start-ups licensed to find retrospective barriers to economic reality. They are thus created - take care of this - licences and two-speed investment. In the end, is that the aim of the arrangement, namely the creation of two gears? Should you be concerned about the excess of hypocrisy revealed by this bill? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u166	Mr Charalambos Mamoulakis, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, has the floor. Immediately after that, the Minister will take the floor, Mr Papathanasis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin my position by trying to highlight two important anniversaries, one real and the other being less, but symbolic. As today, eighty years are closed from the Battle of Crete, an excellent move, a movement of the highest patriotic feeling, an act that came to the most difficult, the most difficult turning point of the Nazi invasion in our country and contributed to changing the course of world history. So I devote a few seconds as a tribute for something that has indeed been described indelibly in the memory of all, Cretan and of course all Greek citizens. My second recollection is that as today, May 21, 2020, Prime Minister Mitsotakis in his public places was celebrating the final end of the pandemic in the country. He was celebrating the completion of the battle with the coronary on 21 May 2020. Anyone with the right Internet search can find these locations. It is an act, a move, words that have contributed to the hypnosis of the 2020 summer and the catastrophic consequence of the pandemic crisis with the tragedy of Thessaloniki and the pit that we all have today. This is a step which, unfortunately, also poses a huge problem in attracting tourism, in developing the tourist product, since our country, especially in recent months, has been the worst country in the world of death by other competitors at European level and especially in the Mediterranean. I think we will all agree - and we will hope - that there will be a happy ending in an area of fire-fighting which is really good, with a very positive environmental footprint in Corinth, Shhino. Two-twelfths have been closed, thirty-five thousand acres are inhabited and it seems that, in spite of all five to six booths, it is not so easy to try fire-fighting, given the state's structural weakness, as it also appears to the state to provide the right predictions so that we have a positive outcome as soon as possible. That's just a reminder and a comparison with Matty. Mr. Colakis, the man who said that within twenty-five minutes he could evacuate Matty, he's absent, he's missing. He's with Silver Alert apparently! Now a question to you, Mr Papathanassis, you are the current Minister. Mr. Loverdos is still a member of the New Democracy? I am not of course referring to Andreas Loverdos, to John Loverdos. Because this incomprehensible statement of yesterday that shocked the Greek - indeed uncomplicated statement - I think that it does not help parliamentary consensus at all, which should be attempted in every bill that comes in, even in yesterday's bill, which I think was not initiated - I say it elegantly - in the appropriate procedure. I also say to you as a father of four children, that I really wonder: Is there a father who is glad that yesterday was legislated and passed a bill condemning children to endure malicious fathers? This is a question which I put on the table and I really ask for an answer. Now let's come to the bill. I think that obidian transformation is a characteristic of the New Democracy. I'll mention some further thoughts about this, but I'm going to get to the bottom of the bill. What did we notice last week? We have seen four quite long-term parliamentary committees, first reading, second reading, debate under article. Eleven hours have been employed by this House. Neither one conspiracy MEP entered the Chamber, except, of course, the rapporteur and the Minister, who were obliged to deal with the bill, nor one to be placed, to defend this bill. This, if anything, raises many questions about the coherence of the New Democracy, about the spirit that governs the ruling party and whether it really is a homogeneous composition and perception of an important bill for us, which will trigger a development perspective for our country, but will also give a solution to a great and timely problem that exists. He's coming to give an answer to many of our fellow citizens. I am transferring my experience from one of my students to the postgraduate school in London, who suffered and suffers from multiple sclerosis and whoever did not wish to come to our country because there was no institutional framework at that time to be able to take appropriate treatment. In London he had the opportunity to be able to face his own personal drama, his own personal problem. The reflection remains and is strong for us. We really have a problem if the Government and the Minister have the consent, the minimum consensus, of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. We are concerned about whether the position of the New Democracy is the one expressed by the Minister during the meetings of the committees and his statement to the law in question, or whether the position of co-population is the one expressed by Mr. Vorides, by the way, the first minister of the Hellenic Republic now under the government of Mitsotakis, who said in 2018 that the resolution of the law of the SYRIZA on medicinal cannabis is equivalent to uncontrolled cultivation of chassis and that we are competing, as a country, with neighbouring Albania on issues of such character. While we really want to put our backs on this, Minister, we cannot. Why, back to the problem of the internal-party cohesion of Mr Mitsotakis and his government, we will not! In the perpetuation of hypocrisy, which allows the suspension of Parliament's functions, we will not! We will not put it in a much more protracted suspension of the smooth operation of parliamentary institutions throughout Europe! That is why we tabled a preliminary motion for a resolution at the beginning of the roll-call vote at the beginning of the vote on today's draft law, as we did yesterday. Let us say once again that if the request for a roll-call vote is not accepted, we will not be taking part in the voting process - parody - which puts another stone in the wall of the anti-democratic diversion that Mr Mitsotakis is going to put on the occasion of the pandemic. Mr President, Minister, the issue for us really has come to an end. That's it! In closing my first place, I would like to say this briefly. It was never the cannabis problem, as was the Prespes. Besides, cannabis, today's bill, what is it? Little Prespes are practically. But it wasn't the cannabis problem, like the Prespes, it wasn't the 37 billion, the Matty, etc. The problem of the New Democracy was not all of this in relation to SYRIZA. The problem was, and remains, a sense of ownership of power, owned by a very large portion of the conservative party and the extreme center, which was fantasizing the invasion of the invaders of today's Officerial Response. You know what he did? Just legitimize any lie. Okay, for cannabis, by Mr. Georgiadis' mouth, you asked for something as a sorry. For everything else?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u168	I will now give the former Prime Minister George Papandreou. Mr Mamulaki, you said something I would like to make a clarification, you say: 'If the request for a roll-call vote is not accepted'. I didn't understand that. The requests are all accepted. If you want to vote here or not, everything will be voted on. It is not the Bureau's responsibility to reject the request. If the Members will come to vote or if you want to leave, it is a matter that you have made a decision. Don't confuse the two issues. Of course the requests are accepted. It's from the Rules of Procedure. We have said that since October 2020 how the vote is taking place. Mr President, excuse me for the delay. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by greeting the truce that has been achieved today in the Middle East. The violent conflict between Israelis and Palestinians, the bloodshed, the loss of innocent citizens is afflicting us all. It concerns us, because Greece has developed systematic relations and deep friendship with both sides. But it is not just about our region. The nature of the conflict has also taken dimensions of national and religious confrontation, and this undermines the notion of coexistence of cultures and therefore any concept of regional cooperation undermines the notion of the coexistence of citizens with different origins or beliefs and thus also undermines our democratic culture. Let us hope that this truce will finally be a step in the right direction to begin a new peace process. Greece, with traditional relations with both sides, could well play an important role in finding a solution, in the context of the firm decisions to create two states, which would guarantee one another their security and peace. Ladies and gentlemen, the importance of our peaceful coexistence has become new after the experience of the pandemic. If something has taught us - it has taught us a great deal - it is that the threats to humanity can hardly be tackled without the extensive cooperation between states and peoples. Cooperation on the blow of inequality, poverty, climate change, issues raised by pandemic. But cooperation in the field of knowledge, science, research, prevention measures, the production of protective material and vaccines, equal access for all peoples to vaccines and treatments. No one safe without us all safe. I remember as Prime Minister at the peak of the economic crisis, the fear of even the biggest economies - these great economies in the world, not only Europe, China, the United States - that the collapse of a very small relatively small economy, such as the Greek one, would have disastrous consequences for the global economy. Interdependence in this era is given. Then, of course, European solidarity reached a great deal of delay after a great deal of hard work and hard negotiation. Today the concept of solidarity, even for the rescue and recovery of economies, as in Europe, is the first time made in the history of humanity a universal conscience. This is the case, ladies and gentlemen, because the traditional concept of security has now changed. Tanks, fryers, anti-missile systems seem weak in front of the new type of threats, such as a pandemic or climate change or a financial crisis. You will rightly ask: All this has to do with this bill? I give the following reasons. Firstly, in the face of today's or imminent threats, governance models will be tested and compared. On the one hand, we have leaderships that promote isolationism, raise walls by cultivating fear, taboo and racist stereotypes. This was the approach of the so-called 'drug war', which was launched decades ago by the then President Nixon. The drugs would deal with the army and the police. The result was that drug trafficking in underground criminal circuits, which were even harvested, became almighty and uncontrollable. The absurd and failure of this policy is reflected in a very simple fact that even in prisons we cannot control drug trafficking. The repressive approach was a complete failure, but it brought too much misery. It has strengthened the cohesive economy, the criminal networks for drug trafficking, arms and human beings. Inexperienced young people, the poorest were targeted, and in many countries minorities without reason, but with huge repercussions on their lives, on their careers, on their health, with social stigmatisation. They spent huge sums of money, citizens' taxes, policing, imprisonment, courts, equipment, and no result. Illegal arms trafficking networks, as well as money, have been equipped. The UN in 2003 estimated that 1% of world GDP was going to these illegal networks, about $320 billion. Today it must have more than doubled that amount. This money and this power didn't just cost lives, undermined, even captured democratic institutions worldwide. Corruption, the acquisition of politicians, judiciary officers, police officers, journalists and media, football clubs and groups is a common practice now and is a scourge for many countries, unfortunately even in our country. Especially in countries with recent democratic conquests, such as the Balkans, illegal trade tends to replace state institutions, creating enormous instability and insecurity. The victim of this repressive policy was the unscientific concept of cannabis use. Even the drug use became taboo. This bill, like the previous SYRIZA, comes to heal this absurdity. I welcome, Minister, the boldness that today is presently reflected across the board. I wish I had honoured this cross-party daring at the time of crisis, of course. Secondly, today's pandemic has highlighted the supreme good of health. The economy doesn't exist without public health. That is why I would recommend to the government that it mitigate the triumph and take advantage of this juncture as an opportunity to move and transform our economy. And, of course, money from the European Union, as you know, there are. I know from my personal experience in managing major crises that the pressure that exists from any government is to find quick solutions and return to so-called normality, that is to say, to lose an opportunity of deeper change. The coming of the vaccines is welcome and salvaged, but it can easily comfort us, sleep us. It's not an occasional threat to pandemic. Either mutations or new pandemics will threaten us again. The question is not 'if' but 'when'. It is therefore an undeniable need to strengthen and transform the National Health System into a vast health shield system for our country. But this policy will also have a strong development character, along with the tourism sector, food safety, environmental protection. A policy that invests in so - called euphoria, healthy life can show us as pioneers as a country. Of course Greece has particular advantages. The Mediterranean diet, our environment and climate, renewable energy sources, sun, air, geothermality, as well as new minds, our scientists, can combined to turn our country into a destination of healthy life, well-being and sustainable development with important development prospects. This is also a Greece that will symbolize something different in the 200 years of life, Greece of humanism, enlightenment, the scientific approach to modern problems. This is Greece which is taking the lead in a global society, looking for new development models, more human and sustainable, and that is what we need to show on the anniversary of our two hundred years of life. I have participated, ladies and gentlemen, since 2010 - as Prime Minister at the time - in the International Commission on Drugs Policy of the United Nations. The main purpose of this committee is to bring scientifically substantiated information to the international community to address the issue of drugs with humanity, reducing damage to citizens and societies. Our conclusions are specific and are clearly expressed by the former Brazilian President, Fernando Cardozo, who is also a member of this committee. He says: "Let us begin by dealing with drug addiction as a health issue, reducing the demand for drugs through proven educational initiatives and legally regulating cannabis rather than criminalising cannabis". The main recommendations of the committee are as follows: Finish criminalisation, marginalisation and stigmatisation of people using drugs, but do not harm others. You encourage new innovative models of legal regulation on drugs, especially cannabis, to undermine the power of organised crime and ensure the health and safety of their citizens. Make sure that various treatments, such as methadone or buprenorphine, are available, which have proved successful in many European countries and Canada. Apply the principles and policies for human rights and harm reductions to both drug users and those involved in the lower ends of the illegal drug markets, such as farmers, couriers and retailers. I refer only to some of the names of our committee, to see that it is a committee of respect at least: Ricardo Lagos, former Chilean President. Alexander Kashnievski, former President of Poland. Jorge Sampaio, former President of Portugal. Juan Manuel Santos former President of Colombia, Nobel Prize. George Schultz died, but he was the Secretary of State of the United States. Mario Vargas Leosa, writer, nobelist. Ernesto Gendilio, former President of Mexico. Kofi Annan, who, of course, has died, former UN Secretary General. We ask ourselves: are we really, ladies and gentlemen, how much money, effort, police, courts, but also stigmatisation for young people is needed by criminalising the use of cannabis and even when the scientific classification of the risk to health from its use - why are we talking about science now and not taboo in general - is it less harmful than tobacco or alcohol? You know, for decades I've been in favor of decriminating cannabis. Let us dare, like many other countries and states in the United States, to take the lead, to break the hard circuits of illegal trafficking and to control its mood and production as a state. For whose benefit, will you tell me? First of all, the young people themselves. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr. President. As our committee chairman, Mrs Helen Clark, former Prime Minister of New Zealand, writes, 80% of young people under the age of twenty-five will use the cannabis at least once. Do you want this to be done controlled, with health protection or through illegal circuits uncontrolled and unaware of exactly what they consume? The state will have a benefit, of course. In the United States, Colorado, which has decriminating cannabis has created revenue through taxation for over 600 million dollars in one year. It has created a legitimate industry, which employs sixty-five thousand to thirty-three thousand workers, depending on which sample one takes with the cooperating services. To a large extent this revenue went to schools and community assistance with particular problems of poverty. So think, ladies and gentlemen, the serious economic benefit for our country, especially if we first take it, because the other countries will do so. If we stay in the sky, we will be back even in the competition of this product. In public health in the United States, the legalisation of marijuana has also had a direct positive impact on public health and safety. And legal access to marijuana medicine has been associated with lower damage rates associated with opioids, which are, as you know, a scourge in America, including deaths from overdose opioids. It has reduced dependence on opioids on states with legal access to cannabis by 23%. After legalisation, the number of people arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol and other drugs was reduced both in Colorado and in Washington. Minister, this bill is an important and bold step. But I think we can and should go further. For example, out of seventy - seventy applications for cultivation, production of cannabis medicinal products have been approved ninety - four, but today only two units have begun their operation. This is proof that our legal arsenal needs to be substantially updated. The draft law, although it generally has a positive orientation, has points that need to be improved. Its main lack of attention is the fact that it does not deal with the patient, but only with the simplification of procedures to help interested entrepreneurs. Of course, it's a matter of the Ministry of Health. But you're a government. You could work together because today the patients concerned are forced either illegally to import the quantities needed to relieve them of a number of diseases, which are curing the use of cannabis, or in fear of producing small quantities themselves. The bill suggests that only finished cannabis medicinal products are available at selected sites, pharmacies and private clinics, excluding a wide range of related derived products, such as oils and extracts. There are two different permits, both for the authorisation and for the authorisation, which intensifies the relevant bureaucracy. It is, of course, proposed that the potential coverage of some of the highly energetic culture of cannabis from renewable energy sources be proposed. We, our movement, would like this potential to become mandatory, at least for part of the energy that is consumed. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to drug cannabis, on the basis of the conclusions of the international committee, in which I am a participant, I believe that it would have a positive effect on preventing the use of hard drugs to reduce the illegal activities of young people from soft drugs to negligence in the use of cannabis. Those who are afraid - because I hear that many times - that this will lead to the use of hard drugs are being deceived. It's like you're saying that going to a wine liquor store, someone's gonna smell in heroin. The opposite is true. The right arrangement prevents illegality and beats the heart of illegal circuits. This, of course, is in the interests of the health of our citizens. You know, the many bans - we've lived in our country - are causing the opposite. We are talking, for example, about non-State universities all these years, but because we have banned them, they have blossomed privately, without regulation and even speculatively. We are talking about our cities, which had not been regulated in towns and, of course, we have the great problem of arbitrariness, of arbitrary constructions. We are talking about illegal immigrants, but we do not have a serious immigration policy that regulates real needs, that we have a workforce in a number of sectors, for example in the agricultural sector. So the regulation is much better than the ban. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by answering those who are putting a moral dilemma. The moral dilemma is not whether we are in favour or against drugs. The moral dilemma is not whether we are in favour or against the use of cannabis. The moral dilemma is whether our policies and the state save lives or whether our policies are destroying lives and this must without taboo and with clarity to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u170	So do we. Thank you, Mr President. The Minister for Development has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, first of all, thank you very much for participating in the debate and for a fruitful dialogue. I just need to clear up a few things. First of all, the bill does not prohibit other forms of medication. If the NEO decides to grant a marketing authorisation for other pharmaceutical forms, the EEO, which is also competent, can allow any other pharmaceutical form of the cannabis medicinal product it considers that it can be supplied to Greece safely. The bill simply regulates that, in the case of exports, the structured process of the faster process of approval by the EOF is being used in the case of exports, in the case of which one wants to export to a country already licensed by the EOF. To be able to produce it in Greece and export it there, and not to wait until this particular pharmaceutical form can be released in Greece as well. I mean, everything. If EOF allows, what he thinks can be made available to Greece, once the EOF decides, can be made available to Greece. Just to be exported, one can use the accelerated procedure so that it does not wait for the internal market. Therefore, the bill, of course, also looks at the interests of the patient and I encourage the IOF - we encourage the IOF - to take initiatives as long as the medical world supports the use of the medicinal cannabis. However, it is not certain that I will decide, if the IFO does not agree, which product will or will not be released in Greece. That's what we're trying to do. The bill is bold, because this issue, as you can see, has many sensitivities and perhaps divides for our extravagance even more bold. In this sense, the fact that we can now in Parliament have a reasonable discussion of reasonable people to take a step, which will ultimately benefit the patient and, at the same time, benefit the Greek economy, I think it is a sign of progress in our political behaviour and our political culture. I say this because - and I am closing down with this, Mr President - you have referred twice to your speech on the example of private universities. I, Mr President, was a Member of Parliament in 2008, when in the then Review you had reached a step to support the Review. I repeat one step. I was in the committee that was voted 'yes' and in the plenary which 'yes' became 'no'. For one vote the private universities in Greece were not established. I remember the crisis: In the same year, they were institutionalised in Cyprus in 2008. Now that we travel to Cyprus and see cosmonia with the private universities there, many left-wing Greeks fighting in Greece for the private universities are teachers in the universities there. Names I'm not saying. Suspects I don't touch. Here they are against private universities, but in Cyprus they go and teach at private universities. Why? Because at a critical moment then we were unable to reach agreement on something that is self-evident. Today, thankfully, we are the example to be imitated. We can finally come to an understanding of three different political forces in Parliament - the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement - on something that works for the rest of the world and is self-evident. It is pleasing that, at last, slowly, we can all agree with each other on its point of view, one more bold, the other less bold. That makes sense - it cannot be done the same - but at least we can agree and not put the brake on the evolution of things. In that sense, of course, I would like to tell you that it is not matters which we can put today. I have known your standing positions for many years and your opinions. They're respected, but they're not here. We're talking about cannabis medication, and only in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u173	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u174	Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Minister, it is obviously not the bill that will talk about the recreational use of cannabis. I put it, however, as I have already said and, indeed, when this debate started - in the 1980s - was not a intergroup, but from all the parties who had adopted this proposal. Both yours and since then SYRIZA's party and more. I remember, Coalition, etc.. So I think this should be opened and you see countries such as Canada, which have fully simulated this case and so it has checked this case. Legislation means regulation. The same, of course, I mention, as you have said, for the universities. I'm not a private worshiper. However, I think that if we do not regulate this situation, we are undermining education in our country because private initiatives are being developed without a serious framework, which regulates precisely the degrees, recognition, evaluation and all these issues. Usually they are speculative companies, which in the world are non-states are usually through institutions, which are not profitable. Money reinvests in universities itself. Of course, we also need a substantial, radical change of public universities, which are highly centralised, linked to the Ministry of Education, because I have been through the Ministry of Education and we have to release them. Publics must be able to compete internationally, let alone within Greece. That is what I wanted to say, Minister, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Andreas Poulas from the Change Movement has the floor. Immediately afterwards, the Deputy Minister for Development will speak, Mr. Papathanases. Mr. Poula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to welcome you on the path of responsible policy. Even late, you acknowledged that during the debate on the bill of Law 4523/2018 you had demonstrated exaggeration, populism, conservativeism and political immaturity, voting against it. At the same time, the Change Movement and this thorny issue have demonstrated political responsibility and braveness, in favour of the principle, but also by making reservations and suggestions to improve its completeness and its potential for implementation. This bill attempts to improve the legislative framework for the production, export, disposal of finished cannabis medicinal products. It comes to correct complex procedures and unnecessary bureaucracy in a sector of intense commercial interest. Over the last three years, applications for authorisation of cannabis planting, processing and production products have reached a hundred and seventy. Of these, only two - three have overcome the obstacles and their operation begins. This fact alone proves that a change in the political response to these investments is needed. Globally it is recognised that the cultivation, processing, production of finished cannabis medicinal products is a new field of entrepreneurship with significant prospects. Especially for 2021, it is estimated that the world market for cannabis medicinal products will reach $65 billion, while the European market will reach $58 billion by 2028. In particular, our country is estimated that, due to climate conditions and soil, it has all the conditions to gain a significant share of the European and world market with great benefits for the national economy. Clearly, the draft law you are proposing is not an integrated legislative proposal on the issue of cannabis medicinal products. It leaves out of regulation important factors, such as the cooperation and involvement of universities and regulates horrific and conservative specific technical issues, to which the rapporteur of the Change Movement had referred. The possibility of cooperation between research centres and universities with production units is not regulated by this bill, as it is prohibited to leave the plant and go for research and, on the other hand, it is not clear whether it is illegal for a laboratory to investigate a product with tetrahydrocannabinol more than 0,2 mm. There is also a need for intervention on the subject of propagating material, because units are preparing to work. How will it work? If they can't make their own propagating material, there'll be a problem. I am making it clear here that we are not discussing the use of cannabis in general and the legalisation of drug use, as the New Democracy strongly supported in 2018. Indeed, your Government may have seen the light of the truth and obviously understood after contacting the right investors the multiple profits of taking advantage of our country's comparative advantages in this market, but that is not enough. This is because the use of cannabis has a scientific dimension, based on new scientific data, but also on a social dimension, which seems to be of no concern to you. To be more specific, it is about using it to the chronic sufferers. As extensive research and communications in approved scientific journals have shown, the effect of cannabis derivatives as analgesics against chronic pain presents a potential therapeutic interest. Chronic patients, cancer patients, patients with neurodegenerative diseases, epilepsy, mental disorders, chronic renal failure, autistic spectrum disorders, musculoskeletal diseases, metabolic diseases, chronic obstructive lung disease, hypertension, visual disturbances, hearing, ageing-related diseases, are a special category of patients with diseases that have a lasting and legal impact both on themselves, but also on their social surroundings. Their health status affects their entire family, while the disease becomes part of their identity. It becomes difficult for the sufferer to maintain his normal social role, while pain has a radical effect on his psychology. Studies have shown that cannabis helps relieve pain, increase appetite and sense of calm, as well as the positive effect on patient behavioural disorders and aggression. For these patients, direct access to approved treatments to help address their symptoms and delay the development of incurable diseases is a social change and a political priority. It is clear that the possibility of facilitating the use of cannabis medicinal products to alleviate the symptoms of the chronic suffering and improve their quality of life must be done after informing the patient about the benefits and side effects of the medicine, under close supervision of the physician, after prescribing and under specific conditions and through a clear mechanism of access and disposal. Our country for the long-term suffering and comforting medicine shows, from minimal to zero, both legislative and institutional, even though the number of long-term sufferers has increased during the years of the economic crisis and is expected to increase further in the coming years. We also expect you to institutionalise the national register in time of suffering and bring in a comprehensive piece of legislation, which will include facilitating the use of medicinal cannabis for a specific class of patients. It is a question of respect for human rights and the fundamental function of the welfare state. But that doesn't seem to excite you, and if there's no room for investment, you mean things. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. In other words, this draft law chooses to manage the issue of cannabis medicinal products exclusively in commercial terms. The social denominator is not your concern, it is not your political priorities. You are not interested in the social dimension of health, but only when jobs are done with private interests and there is room for business and profit. Ladies and gentlemen, by ending, caring for the weak, the sufferer, the suffering fellow and struggling for the preservation of his health is a priority for the Change Movement. We are in direct contrast with the Communist Party of Greece. I hope that a future piece of legislation will show real braveness and progressiveness, but also humanity, integrating cannabis into an adequate mechanism for alleviating the chronic suffering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u178	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. The Minister of Development, Mr. Nikos Papathanases, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today - and you are calling on to vote - the draft law of the Ministry of Development on the production, export and disposal of the finished products of cannabis medicinal products and it is very important that we stand exactly in the title because, with all due respect - certain positions, which I have heard, were perhaps out of the question. We are therefore talking about cannabis medicinal products and we are talking about finished products. Before I begin, I would like to congratulate the women and men of the ground and air forces, who are fighting today, to be able to devour the great fire in Corinth and West Attica. Honestly - it is not Mr Mamulakis in the Chamber - I think that the reference to Matti today was at least unfortunate. I think that to be more persuasive in society, it would be very useful to make our self-criticism. We are therefore talking about a draft law which, after a total of four meetings of the Standing Committee on Production and Trade, appeared to be - and at the hearing of the bodies - to be moving in the same direction. We must say here that all the government's reformist movements clearly have a long-term horizon that is purely developmental. The aim, that is, what we have been fighting since the first moment that the government of Mr Mitsotakis took over, is to create a friendly investment environment, and I think that is the best way of doing so, and that is reflected in the confidence of the international houses, and that is reflected in the constant upgrades in the midst of a great pandemic. Because society is running, technological developments are running and we are still in a pandemic, of course going to the end, but also to this pandemic, global research, technology has developed new tools, we have to say what the serious benefits are, which have arisen and arisen every day, because it is developing a strong research effort throughout the world on the benefits of this plant. I repeat, we are talking about medicinal products, such as those we get in the pharmacy with two-line cheques. So serious benefits can be related to the symptoms of stress, namely people suffering from this symptom, nausea, epilepsy, hepatitis C, Huntington disease, leukaemia, arthritis, anorexia, depression, type 1 diabetes regulation. And here the list does not stop, it is very great, precisely because the research effort is starting today and we have to say that in our home country the research effort, which will give the products pharmaceuticals will certainly take another time. That is why we are changing the framework. We are creating a very new, aggressive, if anything, which supports the development of these products, of course, with an export horizon, but at the same time with a desire to keep - and I shall refer to this shortly later - this great power of processing within our country. Because if we do not keep the processing of these products within Greece, this means that we will simply produce a bloom, which we will export as a product of wholesale exports, so that the added value of the production of the finished product is not created here. In this respect, therefore, this draft law is in progress, it amends the existing legislative framework in order to resolve ambiguities, simplify procedures and facilitate the export of these products. It is essentially the bureaucratic obstacles that have been identified in the application of the previous law. It should be said here that the previous law did not actually work on this industry. That is why we had no creation or construction of production units at all. Although there was a large number of licences, in fact we had the start of only one production unit. So we did not have this movement of the investment community to come and build such units here in Greece. Let us also note that there has been a particular mobility of permits one month before the 2019 elections, and that I cannot say that it is proportionate to the move it had a month ago, that of the elections. I think that this move was related to the creation of a probably secondary market, since investors believed that once the New Democracy came, this law was to be abolished, and in fact there was a significant acceleration in issuing licences, just a month before the law. However, today by this law we are improving the whole operation of this particular product. Clearly, what we predict is that any export activity remains in finished cannabis products which can be exported to countries that have specific certifications. In other words, a product is not exported if this product is not authorised in a particular country, always through a special marketing authorisation from the EOF. Therefore, exports are being liberalised and, of course, the final products approved for circulation in Greece are being foreseen. Here we have to say that our desire is, very soon, that there should be more and more products, which can be made available at pharmacies and warehouses, always under the control of the EEO. This ensures safe and uninterrupted use of products in patients suffering from the conditions, some of which I mentioned earlier. So within the single market and because a lot of energy needs have been heard - that is right, there are energy needs, because this is hydroponic and aerial production, and that is why we will be saying below on the subject of high productivity - we are giving the possibility of collecting in or producing, if you like, activities which do not charge traffic within this area, such as the production of photovoltaic energy, with wind energy, but - we have added - by co-production of high-efficiency electricity and heat, that is, by using gas. Then there is the question of the future of our children, which is the existence of high productivity land. We say that this production cannot go to high productivity land. He doesn't have to go to high productivity land, precisely because he doesn't use the ground. It is a closed production, either products which are specifically land-related to the hydroponics or to the aeronautics. The roots, in essence, grow in a specific environment, which is wet and which has specific ingredients. Therefore, no contact with the ground is a closed circuit. We have to say here - because you have also mentioned the question of the use of water - that there is a great deal of recycling of water, which is also used in hydroponics and aeronautic production. We have therefore given a six-month margin so that it is not abusive to apply the law to people who have already booked agreements or who have submitted their applications, so that they can continue to apply for up to six months after the implementation of the law. But here, ladies and gentlemen, there must be some debate on the exclusion of the land of high productivity from any other applications or functions, except for the cultivation of land products. It is a debate that should be opened to ensure that the land of high productivity remains for the children of our children, for the next generations. In some cases we are giving the possibility of extending, so that a plant which is installed can be expanded. If it needs to be extended, it would be very restrictive and abusive not to give the opportunity to a unit that can be increased to increase. At the same time, the most important of all, and because it has been heard many times in the Chamber since the opposition because we have allowed thirty grams, is that all the finished products, these finished products, which are consumed by the market, are usually in packs of five grams, ten grams, fifteen grams and thirty grams. What does that mean? It means that we really have a productive process of standardisation within the country. Let me remind you that there are tax regimes in other Member States - Member States of Europe, where many units have been created at the moment, not farming but processing, because there these tax regimes allow for a tax on companies to be taxed. So what do we want to do? We do not only want to retain the value of production per gram - where it is a small profit - we want to keep production essentially in the processing of the final product so that this final product, as it is legalized and approved, can go away and go for consumption in the other country where this licence will exist. Clearly, the organization thing couldn't come here. It must be an object, as is all the agencies. It has been mentioned - I think - that we have told you and the committees that the organization will be here. It should be a separate draft law, as usual with the agencies, because it has all these procedural issues. I am a little too fast on the amendment and the provisions. Here we are trying to enable companies, which have already started and made subject to the development law to be extended, to continue to complete their investments by two years. At the same time, for those who have completed the investment and go to start within 2020 or 2021 we remove these two years from the EMEA Treaty. Afterwards, however, all the obligations arising from the law apply to long-term liabilities. At the same time, those who have applied should not be required to use 2020 data, because we know that we were in a pandemic and can use 2019 data potentially, so that they do not have a problem at their request. At the end of the day, in addition to permits for entry and exit, as we authorize strategic investment, the entry into and exit of vehicles can also be authorised. It's a suffering that many strategic investors had to suffer. We are simplifying that, too. Finally, we allow leases - I repeat, leases - and here you should see that the article does not change, only a series is amended in the first paragraph, which states 'to the existing ones and those that are concluded with the entry into force of the present'. This changes in the first article in the first paragraph. In the second paragraph, we are simply allowing the lessee to benefit if a tender is made for a property, which he rents and to which he has invested money, to go and give the highest bid, in the event of the sale of this property. I think it's in the right direction. So I urge you to vote in favour of the law. With this law we are taking another step in entrepreneurship, taking a step towards creating new and better paid jobs, just as we promised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Athanasios Ljupis from New Democracy has the floor now and Mr Vassilis Kokalis is prepared by SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Lippi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the current legislative initiative of the Ministry of Development opens new possibilities for Greek exports of cannabis medicinal products. It introduces a new, faster, but also fully secure production process, free of delays which give new impetus to the cannabis pharmaceutical industry, attracting investment, increasing jobs and giving a development perspective. Cannabis medicine has begun to gain internationally. Its therapeutic value has been recognised by the UN and the World Health Organisation, while many European countries have made progress in establishing a framework, such as Denmark, Portugal, Italy and the Netherlands. It is a medicinal product that has a significant therapeutic and relief effect in patients with severe or chronic pain and has very positive effects on the symptoms of nausea, which is a result of chemotherapy, in patients with parkinson, even muscle spasms, presenting patients with multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, end-stage cancer, while evidence is constantly expanded. As a substance, it is more secure than opiate preparations, while in the United States it has been used for chronic pain years. With the current legal framework, hundreds of ten investment projects have been approved and there are fifty additional applications waiting for examination and evaluation. Of these, seventeen licenses have been approved in the region of Thessaly, more than three in Magnesia, and, for example, an investment of 10 million euros that may employ fifty employees. However, to date, only one investment has reached the point of implementation, which proves that the system to date is difficult. In the present regulations key interventions are made at first level in the production process of finished products, and cannabis products with a tetrahydrocannabinol content exceeding 0,2%. The approval of the production and supply units of propagating material and raw materials, as well as the operation of a production plant for the finished medicinal products of cannabis, shall be carried out in two stages, in the installation and in that of the operation. The approval shall in no case be transferred or granted. Each operator should have a proven single area of at least four acres, which should be enclosed and cultivation carried out exclusively within specific greenhouse gases. Indeed, due to the compulsory use of greenhouses, it was not considered appropriate to use the high productivity land for the production of medicinal cannabis. The only parallel use permitted in this area is the production of electricity from renewable energy sources. Very important is the expeditious issuing of an installation permit for all the necessary supporting documents, since within one month, approval will be granted, and then, within 15 days, an autopsy will be carried out to confirm that all the rules are complied with. The duration of the authorisation shall be five years, which may be extended for another five years. Operating authorisations shall be issued immediately within 30 days and shall have a duration of 10 years. In addition, every year, the operator is again sent by an update of all the supporting documents necessary to be checked by the competent authorities. The issue of authorisations requires a high level of infringement, which constitutes an income for the State budget. The second large section of the bill concerns the export of cannabis medicinal products. Export shall be subject to documentary evidence of the legality of such products in their country of destination and shall be used for medical purposes. The contribution of the bill to the promotion of exports lies in the fact that the products in question are not required to be authorised by the EEO, namely the special marketing authorisation for the Greek market. The production and export of dry blossoms in packages up to 30 grams may also be authorised. The Minister explained earlier why up to 30 grams. In order to be used again for medical and pharmaceutical purposes. At the same time, the procedure and conditions for both import and export of the propagating material of the particular hemp variety are defined. Describe a strict crop framework for dry bloom and include a enclosed control zone for all incoming and outgoing vehicles, reinforced masonry and safety doors in the storage area. Finally, the procedure for the placing on the domestic market of finished cannabis medicinal products is regulated. Of course, the EEO is required, and the Ministry of Development has rightly chosen to classify these products in List D of drugs to enable this category of products to develop and develop. These cannabis medications will now be available from private pharmacies, such as all other drugs, which are prescribed in a bilinear prescription. Overall, the bill has a clear orientation to give direct impetus to this new production activity. It ceases to constitute a state monopoly for the disposal of cannabis medicinal products and opens a new chapter for Greek production and the pharmaceutical industry. The principle was made at the legislative initiative of the previous government, which we are amending today. The provisions voted on in the SYRIZA government are not abolished, but are improved to make them more efficient. This is the best example of how legislative power should function, recognising the correct choices of the previous rulings and taking further initiatives to make the next necessary steps. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The consensus of a large part of the political parties, which gathered today's draft legislation, highlights the right direction in the provisions. This is a grid of arrangements, which will give immediate effect to the cultivation of medicinal cannabis by significantly increasing Greek exports and attracting long-term investment proposals. It is expected that this activity will bring Greece over EUR 1 billion over the next decade and many new jobs. Once again, the government is legislating to give the Greek economy, exactly what it needs at this time, the possibility of extending to new forms of activity, based on current developments and international trends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u182	Thank you too, Mr. Lippi. Mr. Vassilis Kokalis from SYRIZA has the floor to prepare Mr. Mandas from New Democracy and Mr. Famelos from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u183	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in my seven-minute speech I will not go into what you have said and what you are doing. I will only refer to what you are doing and how you do it. Cannabis medicine. Ladies and gentlemen, until the beginning of the 20th century the use of cannabis was unrestricted throughout the world. In the 1930 ’ s, the United States of America was imposed a ban on cannabis. The fervent supporters have attributed this ban to two reasons: firstly, the lifting of prohibition and, secondly, the release of chemicals for the first time. Our country banned cannabis in 1936. It has been many years, with the result that this crop has been very incriminating in people's minds, until several years ago important research by medical universities, hospitals, university professors and talking about the therapeutic use of cannabis. Our country in 2018 - because let me say that we have heard everything in here, as a colleague, even aerials, said - for the first time made this bold move and voted for the law on cannabis medication. The demand for this law to solve all the problems, I think, is excessive. Three years, nothing has happened. Rather, before I arrived at the end of the three-year period, I would say that the previous government started it with a specific plan, which you do not have today. What's the plan? The benefit of the majority of cannabis. What do we mean? The drug cannabis is about large investment and the benefit is about jobs. The industrial cannabis concerns farmers, small businessmen. So the previous government, with concrete plans and steps, also made use of industrial and pharmacy cannabis. I'll come to use too, because this is where I hear about use. Nothing in the bill says anything to use. Three years later, he didn't proceed with the medication. What for? I want to be clear, Minister. You said something about processing. There was a dignosity for the finished medicinal product, which should be considered. Most investors wanted the dried blossom to be considered and rightly come today with this bill - its purpose is positive - and what do you say in Article 1? The purpose of this is to simplify the export procedure for cannabis medicinal products. Right this far. Dried bloom is a finished product. No, it's not, why? Because Article 14(2) states that the authorisation for the production of finished cannabis medicinal products in the form of dry flowers is granted exclusively for export where the plant has submitted at the same time an application for a specific marketing authorisation for a finished product in Greece in a different form to that of dried flowers. Let me just say this: you have, Minister, a car factory, and I come to the state and tell you that, to produce cars, you have to apply for a tractor. Listen to the insecurity that it will create to investors. This law will create insecurity. I would like to tell you why, and I will say your counterpart, because I heard him before, about the processing. You say 'the application'. What if this application is rejected? Do you know how many preparations they have obtained, Minister? You know that? Honestly, if you know, I'll admit. Only four in Europe. The process is very complicated. In summary, I mention what the 2018 Decision on this certification of another product says. Apart from the studies, it has to be proved to be a productive process and Mr Papathanases is now coming and says 'no, I want processing here'. Here's the processing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr. President. Then why are you saying that the finished product is the dried flowers? What investor today - I inform you that the Cannabis Pharmaceuticals Association does not comply with this - by reading this paragraph, will he say that the form of dry blossom is allowed, if I have to apply for a special release of a finished product in Greece? First, greater cost. Second, logic, what does it say? Once you get a certificate, you man! Evidence, down! If you submit an application? Who will guarantee the investor that this application will thrive? Let's see - I wish I'd fall out! - how many businesses will make use of this law. It will be difficult, Minister. It was preferable to say that we do not consider the dried final medicinal product as a blooming medicinal product, clearly. Industrial hemp: CBD separation with THC. Cannabidiol has no psychotropic substance. I hear you say for uses. Where do you see this bill speaks of use? Minister, we must no longer play hideout with the cannabis. There is no institutional framework on all products that are circulating outside and on the Internet. Do you know that? These products, cannabis bread should be considered as food, yes or no? Cannabis cheese, cannabis tea, the simple CBD to be released? It's going to be cosmetic, yes or no? This is the proper use of the industrial cannabis, apart from which it will give our farmers an alternative ecological crop. It will be the possibility of alternative ecological farming. Minister, I think it turns out to be hypocritical, you've been squeezed by some investors, because people came to invest and you had to bring in a law. But you don't believe him. You do not believe in both the value of pharmaceutical and industrial cannabis, and we must also open up the debate on the legalisation of adult use.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u184	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u185	Let's not play hideout anymore. I do not deliberately use the word 'decriminalisation' because those who say so do not know. The addict is acquitted in court, the undependent is punished, but not sentenced for three grams of hemp. Thus, the right of the term is 'legalisation of adults on terms'. At some point this debate must be opened, but we are talking about the use of cannabis which does not contain the psychoactive substance. All this, however, you must know and really seek something, which you are doing today, from cubulation and a cowardly step, but you do not do so with a plan integrated and structured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. Honestly, I'm confused, Mr. Red. I have heard the position of your party, which is completely different from what you have said. Don't you agree? You have mistaken that this particular draft law, which you are invited to vote on today - unless you do not understand it - is specifically talking about exporting dried flowers. This is one of the main pillars of this draft law. We are talking here about cannabis medicinal products, 'Sativa-L' cannabis, with a tetrahydrocannabinol content greater than 0,2%. We are not talking here about products on the market which are not medicinal products. You're messing with things. You've confused the question of processing with the dried blossom. But the whole essence of this bill your party is voting on is the possibility of exporting dried flowers! Because you mentioned whether something could be produced, tell me something to understand. Don't you want the processing and the jobs to stay in Greece? You don't support this? What do you want? To be dried blossom producers alone and not to be able to produce cannabis pharmaceuticals that produce cannabis? Explain what you want. What do you want to tell us? Because of what you have said to us, you seem to say that it is not necessary for companies operating here to have the possibility of producing other products, which are basically the processor. So you should consult SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u188	Good. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, I would like to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u190	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u191	Minister, let's get some things straight. We don't have to keep any paperwork.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u192	You don't need to speak, just one clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u193	With regard to Article 14(2), and of course we want the processing. However, as you have said, it first makes it difficult for the candidates themselves, Minister. He says that to get a blossom export licence, you need to apply for another product. I ask: If this application is rejected, what are the insurance margins? Secondly - I conclude, Mr President, in ten seconds - we have not confused them at all, Minister. I just said the difference of medicine with industrial cannabis - it is certainly not currently in this bill - and the lack of an institutional framework for the products that are circulating and which are yours. We know very well what we say, what we write and what we read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u194	The Minister will answer for a moment, and I would ask you to conclude, because some of your colleagues will miss the plane. Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u195	The whole thing is the creation of a production unit. All the substance of being able to produce other products is that we do not want to produce dried flowers here, but we want the industry to produce other products. In what sense? We do not want there to be just a greenhouse, which is simply produced with dried flowers and there is no possibility of another product entering. That is why we call for the application to be made for another product, because we want two, three, four, five years, over 50% of the production of the product in question to go to specialized products. But the whole value of this project is to create a powerful industry in Greece. It has to be clear that this is what we want as a country. We don't just want to produce dried bloom. We want to produce pharmaceutical products that can be placed on the market. On the other hand, because I did not reply, we are talking about a final product. The final product, when applied to the EOF, is not only made because it is licensed here. It can't be licensed. It should therefore be checked that it is licensed in another country. That's why I'm applying to the FDA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u196	So we move on to the next speaker that is Mr Pericles Mandas from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is an important development in the pharmaceutical cannabis sector in our country. Few people know that this is an emerging and dynamic global market, with very important applications for the relief and treatment of many diseases and symptoms. And according to the latest estimates, the use of cannabis medication is expected to exceed $65 billion worldwide in the next few years, and for our country it is a fact that every year more and more investment schemes want or have already started to deal with its products. But the world itself, society itself, is becoming more and more familiar with cannabis medication and uses more and more to deal with diseases and relieve pain. In these circumstances it is clear that a government such as ours, which is friendly to entrepreneurship and investment, which is aware of standing on the side of the private economy and which believes in making use of every opportunity and potential for the benefit of society, could not stand indifferent to the prospects of this field. That is why we are legislating today with a view to improving our legislative framework. We prescribe the development of a strong industrial and export base in the field of cannabis pharmacy. With today's bill we ensure that the Greek market is provided with finished medicinal cannabis products. And we do this primarily for the benefit of those who use these preparations, always under the regime of prescribed needs. But we are also taking care of safety. We put security controls and define the conditions of maximum protection, using the unsafe control mechanism of the Greek Medicines Agency, in order to ensure that it is safe, safe and safe, but above all therapeutic. With today's bill, however, we are also strengthening our exports, because a product of cannabis medicinal products can be released in the country of introduction on the basis of a decision by the foreign competent authority, without the authorisation of marketing in Greece. Thus, the production of finished cannabis medicinal products is allowed solely for export. This is done, regardless of whether in the exporting country it will be used in an intermediate or final phase, as a finished product or as a raw material. However, it is essential that in any case it is intended to be medical and pharmaceutical. Today's bill therefore supports a new, dynamic and emerging market, a sector with considerable prospects and an increasing investment interest. The bill allows companies in the sector to develop new and important actions, extending their scope with the disposal of dry flowers or prepared cannabis medicinal products, both in Greece and abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing my speech, I would like to focus on the issue of the relief of human suffering, because in the end, we must never forget that everywhere and always what measures the improvement of human life and not the theories that forget human beings in the name of a conception or an ideology. Improving living conditions, increasing human happiness and reducing human suffering are the points we are all judged and will all be measured. In this direction, cannabis medicine is really a tool that allows us to strengthen human relief and better deal with pain, whether patients with epilepsy, whether those with chemos or multiple sclerosis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u198	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, and especially for keeping time. Mr Famelos now has the floor from SYRIZA and then the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Vassilis Boukoros, asked for the floor. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is an opportunity, since after me the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy will be speaking to you, Mr Representative and Mr Minister, that we have not yet heard any statement on the New Democracy side, nor on the deletion of Mr Loverdos's phrase from the minutes of the debate on the co-legislation bill - law now - nor an apology, nor on the deletion of Mr Loverdos from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, as you had to, since he made this unacceptable statement from the Step of the House on the right of a child and child care. I think you should clarify that as soon as you take the floor. It would also be appropriate for the New Democracy to clarify what attitude it takes to the unacceptable today's announcement of the government's inadequacy, as it proved, Minister, that, although the anti-nuclear period began on 1 May, Hardalias said that the means of flight would come by 15 June. The result of this unacceptable administrative failure by a government, which ultimately has no shame, nor holy and loyal, is that today tens of thousands of burnt acres and NATURA regions have been evacuated villages and, in the most conservative estimate, twenty-nine planes are missing through fire suppression in Corinthia and Attica. But the reason why I have been given the floor today, Mr President, is that I should also like to take up the amendments, and I would ask the Vice-President and Parliamentary Representative to pass on these comments on the issues we are going to put to you. The first issue of the amendments is the forest maps. Take note of what is being done by our final government. A month and a half ago, you announced an extension with the Prime Minister, when the inadequacy of doing so again revealed in the forest maps. After a month and a half, the amendment to the extension - one and a half months to write an extension amendment - which has not just deficits, not fireworks, but for binge banging, you drive the forest maps. Be careful, says the amendment for four months. The public will rectify its mistakes and in the last two months citizens will object. First of all, citizens were entitled to at least three and a half months of opposition. Now you're limiting it to two? Secondly, how will citizens learn the changes that will be made to forest maps after government corrections? Kinder Surprise! He doesn't say there's gonna be a post. Maps will not be posted. In other words, the citizen, in any part of Greece, should assume that an administrative act will be introduced, whether or not to include a legal act of the public, whether to classify it or not. That is, all that was institutionally solved by 2019, you did not incorporate it into the forest maps, although you had them in the Ministry and in the addresses - since the end of 2019, forest maps have been delivered and posted in February 2021, thirteen - fourteen months. So you did not incorporate all of the legislation and now you say in a magic way in four months they will be incorporated, together with other changes, which no one knows what they are, the citizens will smell and the last two months we will object. What map? On the already posted Prime Minister, who recognized that it's wrong, why did you mess up? What map will the objections be made? These are tragic developments. So, did you do a month and a half to write a wrong amendment that doesn't say anything? Let me tell you one more thing. You're saying you're going to make new legislative changes, so you're going to change the law. There is also a large case in the Council of State with many branches. All this when will be incorporated into the maps, so that citizens will object, and where will they know, after changing legislation, what will change with the maps? What are they going to object to? I will tell you one more thing, Mr Papoutsis, which is of interest to your region. In your area some maps were posted and validated. However, in your own rules it is forbidden to object to the old validated maps, which have been badly cancelled. In other words, you canceled them and the citizens cannot object. So I ask: in Magnesia, why are the citizens of the ratified sections of the old maps not allowed to object? Why don't you change that, after you made a month and a half to write an amendment incorrectly, even to give an extension? Ladies and gentlemen, our assessment is that you will definitely go to new legislation with serious prolongation issues. Our assessment is that, not just that these six months are not enough - because two months you leave for objections and will be a violation of citizens' rights - but you will also have a serious issue and a constitutional violation. Unfortunately, however, you have put this project into action, and I will not have any objections to it in 2021. That's the essential thing. This is where you have made a commitment to the Commission that we will end in 2020. That is the main issue. The rule of law and environmental protection with the New Democracy go backwards. Don't worry about the issues we even have with forest fires when we haven't shielded our country's forest area. Don't wonder. Because there is a very clear question - and we are saying it - of direct declaration as resurrectors of all the regions that will burn - because it is a constitutional obligation - so that no changes to use may be allowed. There is this obligation and you must exercise it immediately, and I hope you will. You haven't been there. Secondly, the amendment on 'ENERGEAN'. There is one question you have not answered. First of all, the Minister came and said that for a business you will give, from what the publications say, almost 100 million with the bond loan, you do not know that he has raised a question of redundancies and voluntary outlets for workers. He came to the government and said he will give 100 million to a company that has declared profits to Prino in recent years, he is profitable. And that is what the Minister said earlier, Mr Georgiadis, regarding the prices of hydrocarbons. It comes and says - is it also about you, Mr Papathanassis, since you are at the Ministry of Development - that you do not know that workers are being made redundant? Will you give 100 million euros with a public guarantee? It is necessary to discuss any matter that is necessary to withdraw redundancies and voluntary action against workers and to withdraw the amendment now. It is not possible to put back on a business, which says that you give it 100 million and fire workers, even if we accept the crisis, and not the business mistakes or other losses of the company, which may be the cause of the loan you are giving. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let's go to the next issue, which is there. Forgive me, Mr President. Report an amendment of the account for the firemen. First theme. But well, will you use the eyeballs' bill to pay for the studies? One issue, that was to rehabilitate the firearms, Minister. Second question: will you pay the Chamber of Technical Chamber, of which you gave him the studies? Third question: How will you pay the Chamber of Technical Chambers to do the studies, since the presidential decree, which you said would be issued last October, has not yet been issued? Is it possible that you, the staff and the excellent, have done two years and that there is still no presidential decree for the Eye, when the SYRIZA government, in six months, had adopted the special spatial framework for the Eye? Another deception, then, of the New Democracy? That's a lot of talk about Matty. Where's the presidential decree, Mr. Papathanassis? Will you pay the application studies, the wrinkles, which follow the presidential decree, and will you pass an amendment to pay the Technical Chamber, while there is no presidential decree on Eye yet and the residents are still in tents and in the military buildings? Do you know that they're making them from there too, and there are reports? Please look for them, because you have promised too much, and for the Eye lies, as for the cannabis, as for the surpluses, as for northern Macedonia. All a scam is finally in New Democracy. Last issue, which affects us, Mr President, is the Holocaust Museum in Thessaloniki. Well, they're passing an amendment and nobody said it, I don't know if you've noticed. There is a n.e.c. 98/2017 for the Holocaust Museum in Thessaloniki and they come today with amendment and change the plot and exchange it with a neighbor of the municipality, while the plot was of GAIAOSE, citing traffic regulations. However, I have to say that, with the issues that you have in mind, there is a question: how will there be an exchange of ownership of GAIAOSE with the municipality, when there is no first evidence of a level playing field? Because GAIAOSE and the legislation of self-government say so. Secondly, exchange a GAIAOSE document when its chairman says that it needs compensation in the documents. The third question: The technical consultant, who compils this technical study of the environmental expert, is the same as the Presidential Decree of 2017. What's changed? What change is there? How is this linked to what new studies? Fourth issue and more serious. For the 2017 Presidential Decree, a series of studies and a strategic environmental impact study had been carried out. Are we gonna wait another two and a half years to be new? So should we tell Thessaloniki that the Holocaust Museum is going back two and a half years? More importantly, in paragraph 9, if I am not mistaken, Mr President, I would like your contribution to this - the establishment of a new legal person for the management of the Holocaust Museum. However, there is a legal person based in Brussels chaired by Mr Giannis Boutaris, with important international figures at the General Assembly, which finance the Holocaust Museum. If you abolish this institution, you must tell me what we will respond to these figures, because as revealed by our own initiative today, Mr Boutaris was informed last night that this change would take place and he is not in agreement. So, you're bringing an amendment to build another store with blue children to manage the Holocaust Museum while the foundation for this work with international personalities, with the president of the previous Mayor of Thessaloniki, pulling it aside? Do you know what the consequences in Thessaloniki will be for this choice of yours? In fact, when these matters, all I described came from the back door with an amendment. These are issues of at least consultation within the Greek Parliament, Mr President. So in that respect...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u200	Please complete. You've been in 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much for the time. I'm closing, Mr. President. I could not say anything about the New Democracy's change of position on the cannabis issue, about this deception. If the New Democracy admits that it did not know the matter raises a serious issue of adequacy both with the Government and with the Ministers because it seems that it did not know about the surpluses, it did not know about northern Macedonia, about the Eye. But it makes me wonder if Mr. Voridis' refusal suggests he still doesn't know or that you didn't convince him. Let the parliamentary representative say that. Unless you knew and cheated because you had a line. "No" in all, "antiSYRIZA front, blind opposition, because you don't have sacred and loyal. So since you are interested in the chair of power, I tell you that you are not just an inadequate government. Unfortunately for the country you are a dangerous government. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u202	You've reached twelve minutes. Actually, the bill was today. Of course, the amendments are in place and you can see that this is getting out of hand. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Christos Bukokos, has the floor. And immediately after Mr. Amanatidis from New Democracy. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, thank you. I'm sorry to have to answer the same tone. Nothing but the bill and its contents spoke of by the former Minister for the Environment. He opened a lot of topics. Mr. Femmelle, I have no difficulty admiting that SYRIZA is better off cannabis than New Democracy. But you're not better at firefighting, Mr. Famele, nor on forest maps. At the time when men and women give the battle to the Corinthian Shino and the Megarra it is impossible to speak in plenary, instead of wishing for everything to go well and to cope with it, to block the fiery mud. You come here and say deficits. Where did you see the deficits? Three hundred men and women of fire extinguisher give battle to the firefield. Twenty aircraft and two helicopters yesterday, and today they are participating in the fire suppression. Where did you see the deficits, Mr. Famele? Why are you making impressions?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Chardalias himself admitted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Femmelle, no one interrupted you. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u206	There was a huge effort yesterday. The wildlife shelter has been saved. Our agony is human lives. Then human property and the natural environment, for which we are suffering, Mr Famele, have become ashes forty thousand acres. But, you come, former Minister of the Environment, and you talk about deficits, when the battle is being fought by so many worlds of fireworks on the front line. I would say that the battle is being successfully fought, despite the great environmental disaster. This is our agony, I'm telling you again. It is a success because the evacuations were carried out properly, because shelters have been saved because the battle has been taken up so far at this time when we are talking here in plenary. It's given by the men and women of the fire department. But you also raised the subject of forest maps, Mr Famele, in plenary. You, the acceding Minister of the SYRIZA Government who saw his bill collapse in the Council of State. To dismantle both the housing density and the redemption mechanism that you anticipated. It is indeed the Prime Minister's commitment that we will have posted maps by the end of 2021. Amendment No 895 today is the first of a series that will be needed to address all the issues. Mr. Famele, we haven't had farmers' ancestor property, a fortune for eight generations. What you tried to do, to compel them to buy the land of their fathers and their grandparents. What does today's amendment say? Today's amendment says that everyone has the right to object and to manifest errors. No one loses that right. Neither posted maps nor posted maps. We, Mr Famele, can feel the problem and the anxiety you fueled the country's rural world with your own bill. We have committed ourselves as opposition to resolving the issue and resolving it gradually with specific timetables. It is not just the amendment. It will also be ministerial decisions. They will also be the Circulars to administer the requirements of Law 4685 and, in particular, Article 48. To resolve this issue at last and keep up with the forest maps with the register. I'm not saying that you had bad intentions, Mr. Famele, when you proceeded with the work of the forest maps. I say, however, that your law has actually failed to work. And that proved to be it. You inherited us a hundred and seventy thousand objections, Mr. Famele. When would these objections be considered? At the rate you delivered us, it took twenty-seven years to consider. Are you telling us that you solved the matter of forest maps? It is now gradually resolved, with a measure, logically, painfully, with planning and timetable. Now, by the Government of the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the State Secretary responsible, Mr Amyras, who we have just hosted in Magnesia. Because you know what is happening in Magnesia and we do not know, ask the peasants of Pelion and of the campus to see that they left perfectly satisfied with the meeting with Mr Amyras. I participated in this meeting. I heard the questions from the farmers. They've all responded, one by one by one by Mr. Amyras. I don't think that's the same thing about your days. I do not remember having satisfied farmers. We protect the forest and the property of the farmers we do not eat. This is our line, Mr Famele, since you asked me to answer all the questions. Of course, I have no personal tone for my answers. However, they must be answered. So these are for fires and forest maps. The issues of Thessaloniki you raised I do not know and therefore I cannot place myself. I cannot express a certain opinion. I would say about today's legislation on cannabis medicine that New Democracy has really changed the attitude. The relevant Minister for Development said so, Mr Georgiadis, and said so in a clear and clear way. But what political force is it serious? The one who remains committed to her positions even if she realizes that there is another perspective of things, is there another approach? What I see today is completely wrong and, in substance, is to put SYRIZA officials and other parties in the counterpopulation, a matter of legalising the use of cannabis and all these issues, blurring today's bill dealing with the strictly controlled cultivation and processing of cannabis, which is indeed one of the sectors of production and processing in the global economy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we are talking about today. When officials of the opposition parties come, on the occasion of today's bill and say that the debate on the legalisation of the use of cannabis in adults needs to be opened, they do nothing but fuel extreme arguments, which have been heard in this House, and which say that today's bill is essentially prelude, is the precursor to legalise the use of cannabis. Let me tell you one last thing, ladies and gentlemen of the Police Department. Any government that has the majority and wants to legitimise cannabis, bring the studies, bring the plan, take responsibility and legalise it. It is not from our own government's intention to do so and it has not been expressed in any way. We are standing in the bill of drug cannabis and it is quite clear. Absolutely clear! Have we changed our minds? Have we modified a position? Yeah, we did. If we wanted to move on to the mushrooms - let me have the expression - the whole point, we would leave things as they are, a hundred ten licensed businesses and only one established, we would continue - if you wish - to make any criticism of the SYRIZA bill. Instead, we come today and bring pro-investment provisions for a sector that can add to the Greek economy and give jobs well paid and another way out of the productive process of the primary sector and processing. So things are clear. In an aggressive way, as Mr Papathanase said, we are operating a pro-investment mode. The rest may be wishful thinking, I don't know perhaps of SYRIZA, the Change Movement. They may indeed be wishful thinking and may think that this bill can be the stepping stone for something else. There is also our difference, so this difference remains clear. On Amendment 896 tabled by Simos Kedicoglou, it was heard, if I remember correctly, by the Change Movement that it was photographic. It is not a photographic amendment at all. It's an extension of Evia's operation. The amendment had been adopted a month ago, and instead of three months' extension it provided for an extension, and this necessary correction was made in the vote again. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, it is too easy for any Opposition to criticise. The issue is on major issues, as has been raised in today's debate, such as firefighting, such as forest maps, solving the problems and I do not think that the problems have been resolved by the previous government's policy. On the contrary, we are now seeing results. I close again with the men and women of the Fire Service, the pilots of our aircraft and helicopters who are currently fighting very hard with a fire that burns solid forests at wind speeds which reached 80 and 90 kilometers last night. The thoughts of all of us and the assistance of all of us should be there and not try, confusing in the end, to say that there are shortcomings in staff or within. Enemy of good is the best. At this time, however, the battle on the fire front is being given coordinates by the forces of the Fire Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u207	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Bukoro. Mr Buquoir, you raised a point concerning my own region, my constituency. Indeed, I've been back from there a while since the morning. Everything is very coordinated. I'm saying what's actually happening. I've known the area for too many years. There are everyone, the Fire Corps is doing everything it can, the municipalities, the district, the air means. There's a great deal of effort going on and we're at a good stage. That's what I can say. We must all be cooperative in protecting the environment and our people, before and above all. Let me make an announcement to this House. The Ministers for Development and Investment, Economic, Foreign Affairs, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Culture and Sport and Justice submitted on 21 May 2021 a draft law: "Statification (a) the Agreement on Cooperation in the field of Science and Technology between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America and (b) the Amending Protocol to the Agreement on Economic, Scientific and Technological Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I will now give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Mamulakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. I have to reply to the honourable Member, the parliamentary representative of the ruling party, Mr Bukkoro, for various misguided statements, in our view. First of all, Mr President, because of your special identity, we are all on the same side of the river. We all very much want, I would say, immediately, the complete completion of the process in the work of fire-fighting and of course we support the titanic struggle that is being done. There is a 'but', Mr Bukkoro. There is a structural weakness of the state with the raw assumption of Mr Hardalia, the Minister responsible for these matters, a structural loss of twenty-nine airborne means, which would be very useful and effective, especially in the first 24 hours of the battle that has been given. Let us stress here that the second 24 hours have already elapsed, and unfortunately, we are entering a third painful night with what this entails. But let us hope - I am closing with this - that this environmental drama will be completed for the region. Because we are undoubtedly talking about an area of incredible natural beauty and a particularly sensitive area and because of the shelter for the protection of life. In conclusion, I should like to say that away from us reasonable and practical tombling practices, which you as a Professional Anti-Civilization you have been in the Eye for years. You are doing a process or you have pursued a policy that is far from our logic, our own pendant. Now, for the forest maps. The hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. Forty years of structural inertia, structural inertia in the country, a historical uncertainty of a commonly accepted development tool. The SYRIZA government decades later to put a order through an institutional framework. Because you also mentioned the forthcoming reactions, so I would like to tell you that Mr Famelos came to Crete, I was self-governing at that time, and there was public consultation with the institutions. The farmers of Crete did not react in 2018. They now react that have quasi-loss of property, due to the property that exists in Crete, a special property regime. In fact, Mr Skrekas has unfortunately come to the island late, with what this means to prevent a situation that has already accumulated. What did he do? He just gave some extensions which, as Mr Famelos said, were reduced to half the time for the citizens to react from three to a half months in two. Now we're actually going to the core of the problem for forest maps. I have to answer. We didn't speed up the process. You have tabled an amendment with what this means. And I'll answer you. Five hundred fifty positions, forestists and foresters had been proclaimed since June 2019 as a government and to be able to serve and strengthen committees addressing forest map issues. So what did you do? You made the political crime against us, to stop the process of competitions and to have a centrally dehydrated service, which could not handle and handle the issue of forest maps, hence the problem raised. So you have a total signature of responsibility for this important issue for us and the whole world. I say this because there are particularities from region to region. I think there is something wrong with the amendments here. Mr. Famelos mentioned it again. I'll say it one more time. 'ENERGIA', here we have this issue, we have a company which, for the look of Prinos at least one of its elements was an entirely profitable business at operating costs in 2019 28 million and in 2020 20 million euros. The Greek state is in the process of supporting the 'COVID' crisis. How does it strengthen her? With the Greek State guarantee for a EUR 90.5 million loan and a bond loan of another EUR 10 million, a sum of EUR 100 million. Very good. But let's actually go. Obviously, I was amazed by the joint admission of Mr Tagaras, the Secretary of State for the Environment, that he does not know about all this, which has emerged so long ago in the wider area with the redundancies of fifty workers and fifty other workers who are transferred as contractors, i.e. sub-contracts, namely subcontractors, that is to say, virtually a total loss of their jobs. He doesn't know. Okay. He found out today. And will this amendment remain, in spite of its knowledge, in force? I ask this House, and I ask you, Minister. Clearly, now you'll give an answer. You may not know, but if you didn't know it until first, you know it now. What will happen, will it lend with the backs of the Greek State, with our backs, a company which until yesterday was profitable, with this raw assumption that it is ante portas before the gates? I definitely want an answer. We certainly want an answer as soon as possible to make the day clear from the wheat, so that we can finally understand what this is, which leads the government to specific moves on this issue. Of course, to say that this year too, from the evidence, I see two and a half thousand barrels, I see that the look of Prenos remains in full force, is also expected to remain profitable. So, in addition to the data available on the table, we expect answers. Since, Mr Bukkoro, you are in the mood to answer immediately then I take the opportunity to point out to you that you will start with the... and this issue I raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u209	And we thank Mr Mamulaki. Here you go, Mr. Buquore, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u210	I have to reply, Mr President, and make use of the dentistry, because the dear Parliamentary spokesman for the Officerial Representation is approaching very - very important issues with very narrow party perspectives. We are starting with the important, Mr Parliamentary Representatives, and the important moment is the battle that we are fighting with fires and are in danger of property, human lives and the environment. Mr. Hardalias said, although the anti-missile period begins on 1 May, we will have the rental of firearms on 1 June and you will come here to talk about delays without questioning four years on the SYRIZA government. Because the anti-nuclear period - you know very well - is always 1 May to 31 October, this is the anti-nuclear period. Do you know the SYRIZA government until when he received rentals for air fire-fighting instruments? Until 30 June. What, then, are noise and impressions? Instead of all helping there and saying good to the fire officers who give this heroic battle, to the pilots of the "Canadair" and the other types of aircraft and helicopters, who are twenty, because you know on one front can't participate hundreds of flying instruments. You know that. I mean, if we had three hundred aircraft, it would be hard to coordinate one forehead. As a result, he said something as information from Mr. Chardalias to show the readiness that exists ahead of the summer, the Civic Opposition is grabbing it and makes it a flag of opportunity. Forest maps. Honestly, I agree that the hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. This is a matter that has concerned me with five, six years, Mr Colleague. Why didn't they protest...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u211	Five, six years! Half a century of loose end!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u212	Yes, but the laws before you say they have half a century of history. I will tell you that it has eighty years of history and I will tell you that it is from a recommendation from the Greek state and we are solving it today. Do you know the difference anymore? The degree of forcedness of the previous legal framework in relation to Mr. Famelou's law, who if you didn't pay for your land. You are also a Cretan, and you tell me that the Cretan farmers have now protested. Yes, indeed, because for your days the maps had not been posted to see in practice what the Famelou bill provides for. Now they're posting maps and people understand what happened to you for taking out the oil forest land, hundreds of thousands of acres with oil you showed them as forest. That's what you did in Crete, not you personally. The previous bill, and Mr Famelos himself, because I believe he was expressing a government policy with this bill. In any case, for today's bill, to close this way...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u213	No, you won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u214	...I call on Mr. SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative to stand up to the content of today's bill, because some of your colleagues and former ministers here have opened matters of legitimacy and all these issues. Will you, as a parliamentary representative, take the floor today although we do not have a tritology and say that SYRIZA proposes the legalisation of the use of cannabis in adults? I ask you directly, as directly as you put the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr. Christos Bukouros. Now Mr Amanatidis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be tempted to deal with the issues which have already been raised and which are not covered by the draft legislation today, but I will focus on my speech on the present draft law, which is being discussed. It is a draft law, which seems to be accepted by a vast majority of the members of the Greek Parliament, and that appeared both in the speeches of the committees and today in plenary. That's why? Because this is a bill that is bold, which is developmental and I would say'saving' for a portion of our citizens who suffer from serious diseases. We must, however, say that it also reflects the Government's will to create conditions for strengthening entrepreneurship, a entrepreneurship that focuses on extroversion, will be competitive and that is why our country will be attractive for investment in the sector with strong added value, in a sector that incorporates the concepts of innovation and diversification into its productive activity. Cannabis, ladies and gentlemen, is in fact a dual-value tool: firstly, therapeutic and secondly, development. The positive effect on health has been extensively mentioned by colleagues earlier and by the Minister, and I will not say the same again. As far as the development dimension of the product is concerned, I would like to say that we expect that in the next decade we will have an influx, an increase in incomes by about 1 billion. What, however, comes to complement what is faced with this draft law? First of all, why is it innovative? It is innovative because it incorporates the end products of cannabis medicinal products in Table IV of drugs so that patients can obtain them from the pharmacy with a straight-line medical prescription. There is therefore no fear that it will spread uncontrollably to the market, since it will be a medical prescription for a specific quantity and for a certain period of time. That is, ultimately through this draft law, we are creating a real domestic cannabis market. It has also been heard and it has been very interesting to create a patient register so that a card can be issued and patients will not be at risk by arrests as is currently taking place in our country, that illegal practices can be struck and that black money and underground routes are limited. We have said that it is a development tool and I will not analyse it any further. But where is Greece today, on the basis of the existing institutional framework? Indeed, with Law No 4528/18, which was established by the previous government, it has started an effort and a possibility of domestic production and final processing of hemp products. However, the results were not expected. Countries, which have been based on Greek experience, on Greek legislative experience, such as Portugal, Denmark, Malta, have gone beyond us. What does that mean? That they took what was good about the legislation and applied it by putting their own touches on it. It is therefore necessary - it is clear - that something should be done in this law as it was. It has also been said earlier that ninety-five investments have already been approved, fifty are in an examination phase and sixteen are under final approval. It was also said that only one investment has been made in Corinth. Here you will allow me, Minister, to add that one more will be done in Kozani, on the basis of - thank you for that - the direction you have given the investor's representative on how you imagine the development of the cannabis industry in our country, which is also demonstrated and reflected in this draft law. Therefore, this legislative initiative will unleash the industry's dynamics and soon, from planning, the projects will be brought to fruition. Let me say that this draft law, which will become law, will act as an accelerator. The arrangements of this law will parallel the export procedures with those which exist and apply to generic medicinal products produced in our country. A number of criticisms have also been raised. The question was raised by many colleagues why marketing up to 30 grams of the flower. The Minister has done so at the meetings of the committee. I think it is absolutely right that it should not be 400 grams, as in Portugal. Why? Because it is a product which is medical and as such a product will be in pharmacy and therefore, as a medical product the packaging is consistent with the value and characteristics of the product. Above all, because the main objective is to produce a finished product and not a necessarily blooming product. The second criticism - which has been made - relates to the use of high productivity land. There has been discussions on this matter and it has still been raised as a matter of urgency. I am sure - because I know that the government and Minister present here hear every positive proposal and initiative - that a golden section will eventually be found on this matter. Besides, 1%, which we introduced as a government on the issue of the use of high productivity land for PVs, was not intended to strengthen PVs, but was intended to protect the land of high productivity. The third issue, which was raised by criticism and debate, was the establishment of the Cannabis National Agency. It is a constant request from the institutions, it has been captured and discussed. I, too, think that an institution, a mechanism involving a representative of the ministries, institutions, consumers and patients, will lay the foundations, along with the universities, for a very systematic follow-up to the cannabis issue. The positive aspect is also that the Deputy Minister who is present has committed himself to looking into the matter and to move it into a legislative initiative in the next few months. Significant issues are raised in the draft law, including placement. It is therefore foreseen that the area to be used is 4 acres or more. We are talking about constructions in closed-type greenhouses, as well as provision for the application of safety conditions. I should also like to say that it is very positive - and indeed it has been said earlier - that some have been asked to be compulsory - the use of RES in the production process. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] In conclusion, I would like to say that this draft law extends the productive potential of cannabis, namely the economy, and allows it to develop safely in our country as well. There have been bureaucratic time-consuming procedures in the previous institutional framework, which are being dealt with in this draft law, so that the industry and our country can become more attractive and more friendly to entrepreneurs. The General Accounting Office of the State described the expected revenues from the development of the sector in our country, and it is, moreover, very positive - I will repeat - that this draft law includes end-products of cannabis in Table IV of drugs. Patients are now being served, since they can be supplied by the pharmacy, as we have said, a straightforward medical prescription, without resorting to illegality and black economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u217	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u218	So I believe that this is a draft law which will be supported by a large majority of the Greek Parliament, and I am, of course, voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, too. The speaker of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Marcos, who is celebrating today. Happy birthday, Mr Marcos, for your celebration and for everyone who is celebrating. Mr Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u220	Thank you very much, Mr President, and your wishes. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot resist the temptation after the last intervention of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, and I shall read today's statement by Mr Chardalia. Obviously, we all obviously wish this evil with the fire to end quickly, but with the wishes you know we can't erase the fire. She needs something else, too. As Mr. Chardalias said, twenty-nine airplanes are missing. I read the phrase 'because the lease starts on 25 May'. Yes, but as Mr Bukkoros said, the anti-missile period began on 1 May. Why the lease starts on May 25th and these are now missing? Mr Hardalias supplemented: 'We are unfortunate'. Unlucky is the Greek society with the government that has, not Mr. Chardalias. Secondly, Mr Bukkoro. How much will you be dealing with false and inaccurate, gentlemen of the New Democracy? He stated that “we saved the NATURA area” and just before a communication came out of the European Forest Fire Information System that four thousand four hundred acres were burned so far in the NATURA region, i.e. 6.6% of the area. How many more lies are you going to lie? So we come to the point. With a strangely incomplete dialogue in the committees, this bill came to plenary. And I say strangely incomplete dialogue, because it is unprecedented that a majority Member should not speak in committee. It's a good thing you've been recruited to come here, listening. You'll tell me what to do. Who can forget your screams in this Chamber in 2018, when the government had introduced its own innovative bill for discussion? Who can forget Mr Fotella, who said - I read from the Minutes of the House - that we have brought the fodder to an investment, that we intend to legislate on the cultivation of coconut and opium in a village, next to the school, a hashish culture, to the church and to houses of housewives, that we wanted to stay in history as the government of the fodder and that the New Democracy cannot allow this for Greek birds and will bring them jobs, while we bring business with fodders. Who can forget Mr Güleka, who was implied that we had a secret agenda and what we were finally pursuing and who - listen to this, it is important - called on us to apologise why we were creating jobs from the cultivation of hashish and at the same time did not promote investment in Greek. These most renowned speakers are absent today, as are others. We were watching this whole crescendo of populism, when the bodies had been summoned, testified and presented with thousands of scientific pages proving the necessary pharmaceutical presence of cannabis. Others read the diseases, but as a doctor, I want to repeat them, because in many of them we have experienced the therapeutic effect of cannabis: cancer, epilepsy, Parkinson, Alzheimer's, Crohn's disease, heart complications, multiple sclerosis, legendary arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, inflammation of the bowel, diabetes, nausea and vomiting, and weight loss of cancer patients from chemotherapies, hepatitis C, patients with HIV and so many others. The examples of irresponsibility on your part for the bill are many. I stop here because it really isn't worth it any more. But I can't make a brief reference to the man you were persecuting and slandering, perhaps more than anyone else during the period of our administration, Nikos Karanika, whose positive contribution the Minister recognised. You have had him vandalized for six years this man in a way that you want to articulate that this amorphic, incompetent, lazy image you made is the image of SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that on your lines there are two types of characters: those who adopt the cynical and political abhorism of the Development Minister and those who really, in the middle of their hearts, feel that this is not the case even in this harsh political reality. I leave you to consider where you are joining. But time and habits change. Then the Syrians were lazy, now lazy are the young and young, who make doctoral thesis. Then the Prespes were treacherous, now you will come, wanting or not, to deposit a hundred fifty eight at best for you a hundred fifty eight. However, with all the things I have said, I would also like to make a characteristic difference to us. Our difference is that we are today in favour of this bill, because it responds to a social feeling and we do not feel the need to make a populist policy, because it concerns health, those who need cannabis products, who must not spend huge quantities or at times ensure them from roads of dubious legality, and to contribute positively to both employment and the economy which is the second request. However, I have heard something from Mr Deputy Minister in the committees. He said that in the government of SYRIZA this law was cowardly and ignorant, while the current bill is brave and bold. I really don't have any words here. Personally, this is beyond me. He reminds me of the joke of his father's killer who went to court and was pleasing because he's an orphan. Only that can be compared. Mr President, I would like to put a minute's tolerability on the substance - and I would like to say this - one point is the 30 gram package. Some arguments have been put forward and they are respected and heard. What we need to see, however, is why Portugal, which is competitive, has adopted the four hundred grams. How much is that gonna hurt us? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, a lack is the provision, even at its beginning, of cooperation with the Greek pharmaceutical industry. The Greek pharmaceutical industries rise and have enormous potential. Of course you mentioned that registries will be made, that is, groups of patients needed - to see - that prescribing will be allowed and done - to see - that the National Cannabis Agency will be built. Why is it considered self-evident by the Minister of Development that it has not been done now? Why? Finally, I should like to say a personal medical point of view, which is about global scientific data. It is a mistake, which prevails as if well in society and in others, that the road to hard drugs begins through the use of soft drugs. This is a mistake and this has been proven by hundreds of scientific work. Users are patients through a complex, multifactorial environment that leads them to this sad situation and as such we have to see them and see them in the future and with courageous, I would say, preparations. We therefore welcome you, ladies and gentlemen, on the path of reasoning in this respect. We will welcome you to the next difficult ones, such as the memorials with northern Macedonia, etc., that is, we welcome you on the road of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr. Marcus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u223	There's no personal matter. I judge that. As a parliamentary representative, you have the floor for two minutes, because you are entitled, but not on personal grounds, because I have not heard anything abusive or falsifying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u224	Not for two minutes, Mr. President. There was an absolute falsification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u225	Let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u226	And while Mr Marcos was enlightening about the use of cannabis as a doctor in diseases, we have actually learned, as far as the fires are concerned, that he has really distorted my views, and indeed the European Observatory has also called for them. Dear Mr Marcos, I did not say that the NATURA region was rescued and I would refer you to the Minutes. I said that a particular area was rescued that is the Wildlife Preservation Reservoir and that according to the announcement of the Fire Service and the competent authorities and there are even reports at this time. The second thing I told you - and more importantly - is that every year the country rents fire-fighting instruments. The fire protection period shall be from 1 May to 31 October. It's a matter of public procurement. The country pays 15 to 20 million a year to rent these fire-extinguishers. So what did Mr Hardalias say today, ladies and gentlemen? He said it was unfortunate we didn't have it. But this is how public procurement works, and thankfully we changed the law on public procurement again with Mr. Papathanassis's current Minister, but this new law will apply from 1 June onwards. See, then, that no one year the extra firearms, what we rent, never came to the country earlier than June 1st. In fact, your days were up until 30 June. So what are you blaming Mr. Chardalia for? This is to be restored, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u227	Mr Sarakiotis, I will give the floor first to the Minister and then you will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much, Mr President. In reply to Mr Marcos, I would like to say that it is a matter of policy that is the subject of the grams, which a country can export. Because you have constantly mentioned the issue of Portugal, which has exports and which has recently raised the limit to four hundred grams, I repeat the end product's attempt in small packages. After all, I want to tell you that in other countries, outside Europe, there is the possibility of exports in large quantities. However, the countries concerned, for example Canada or America, have an internal industry and, above all, they already have licensed products. They therefore do not mind so much whether their cannabis production can give or export larger quantities. Therefore, for us here it is a purely political issue. And the fact that someone has to get the so-called certification for good industrial practices, good manufacturing practices, that means that they are just certified to produce a specific medicinal product within Europe. It is therefore a matter of policy. Don't compare to Greece. You at SYRIZA always say we have to have our policy. Because you spoke about whether it is unimportant or not ignorant, I would like to remind you that your 2018 law did not allow for the export of dried blossoms. In other words, you did not have the opportunity to export dried blossoms.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u229	The floor is now given by MP Fthiotida of SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance of Ioannis Sarakiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, governments are judged by their projects, by the sobriety and seriousness with which they approach all the issues they face, but also by the positive impact of their initiatives on the lives and daily lives of the citizens. The same, however, applies to all political groups, even when they are in opposition headquarters. The constructive or sterile and populist way in which problems and challenges are approached undoubtedly affects the level of the country's political life and not just. The lengthy evolution of the debate on the production, export and disposal of cannabis medicinal products has shown that the inability of the New Democracy to mature in time undermined the initiatives of the SYRIZA Government, which in 2018 put our country into world leadership in this sector. However, developments at global level could not wait for Mr Vorides, Mr Georgiadis and the other members of the New Democracy to "see the truth", when their garments broke out in 2018 that our country would compete with the neighbouring country - I am not talking about northern Macedonia, I am referring to Albania - that Mr Vorides from this Step, to the trade in hashish in the Balkans, or that Greece will become an infinitely chaosoly crop. Suddenly, the bucket, as today's accelerating Minister for Development, became industrial and pharmaceutical cannabis. It is incomprehensible, but this improperness and the ideological nuisances of the New Democracy have forced about a hundred licensed companies to expect to invest hundreds of millions of euros in our country at a time when industry is looting in countries such as the United States of America, Canada, Denmark and Portugal. Specifically, in the US at the time that the New Democracy made a delusional opposition - between 2018 and 2019 - the cultivated areas of cannabis increased by 368%, while major universities, such as the Californian one, developed specialized centres in coordination with the American Ministry of Agriculture for the cannabis study, with monthly reports on a wide range of medical research. At the same time, over two hundred thousand full-time jobs were created in this country, while revenue for 2020 amounted to $1.5 billion, in a market, which in the world exceeded EUR 22.5 billion last year and is estimated to have reached EUR 88 billion by 2027. However, it does not matter that the New Democracy has chosen to ignore all this: investment, jobs have not been created. The Minister apologized, and everything was solved, as if nothing had happened. However, an apologies for the opposition to the 'extreme and treacherous Prespecies Agreement', which is now being honoured and reddened by the new Republic's ministers to applaud where they stand and where they find this so far a treacherous agreement. Not a word of remorse has been heard about the lack of security in our country. Two words were not found to be said in the case of the investment in the Greek, where the two weeks for the start of the investment after the elections have been two years and we are seeing them. But you've been apologising for the cannabis. So let it be. Now, if your apologies are correct, it seems that you have been completely uninformed and ignorant about the development of a sector which has, in recent years, been showing strong investment interest in the world, despite the fact that in your criticism you have been particularly galant. And you wanted to call yourself pro-investors. On the contrary, if the apology is hypocritical - a possibility that I consider to be most likely - I cannot believe that you have not read the foreign press, which has been talking about the rising, flourishing cannabis sector for many years. Then, you have brutally deceived Greek citizens once again. But the House, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is not a confession. Politicians meddling and recognizing their mistakes either resigning or doing their works. For resignation, no reason. We're not talking about it. A great deal of work is now needed to cover the lost territory of the last two years and to complete the necessary institutional framework. They must now focus on specific legislative initiatives: in the context of the separation of CBD and THC from industrial cannabis, the establishment of a national cannabis organisation in the standards of equivalent external organisations and, finally, the interconnection of research bodies between them, as it is understood that the best possible exploitation of this product is of a multidisciplinary nature and therefore requires good cooperation between scientists from different fields. Research should be the front of the country's development progress with regard to this sector. As Professor of Agriculture Mr Bilalis stressed during his hearing, it is incomprehensible to expose the favourable climatic conditions prevailing in our country for this crop, but at the same time not to allow research at universities to develop the relevant know-how. Let us not plunge ourselves into the 'garson of Europe' syndrome, as has happened in other sectors of the economy in the past few decades. We can, in time, develop the possibility of processing and give the right ground to innovative applications so that we do not get to the point that we import processed products at five times the price, based on the raw material of Greek origin. It is crucial to move quickly towards a more attractive legislative framework, first helping patients and then helping the Greek industry. Human capital exists in both universities and ELGO, while the Greek pharmaceutical industry has shown that it can help. The political will remains, which we hope you will be able to show with determination this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u231	We also thank you for the consistency and time. The Minister for Development and Investment Mr Georgiadis asked for the floor for one speech. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have the time to see, Mr President, how quickly everything is moving in Parliament. Mr Sarakiotis, I'm tabling the legislative improvements - I haven't tabled them so far - in the bill. Within them, paragraph 4 states that it is permitted for research public laboratories, university institutions and the Greek Agricultural Organisation PPCTRA, "ELGO - PIMITRA", the import of propagating material and its cultivation for scientific research and development and clinical studies, as well as for their cooperation for those purposes with bodies which have received the approval referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 2A. You have just said how it is possible that we do not allow research and development in Greece. So we allow it with the law. We had discussed it in committee too, and I was committed to bringing it. With the legislative improvements, I always mean. You'll be distributed now. Also, in paragraph 2 of Article 19 of the draft law after the words "...extended requests submitted until the entry into force of this Act", the words "... as well as requests to be made within six months of the entry into force of the present Act", in particular because they have been put to us by various parties. It's during the negotiations, pre-agreements, etc. We have no reason to hurt anyone. I said it all along. The bill does not hide benefit to someone else. It hides a general anguish to try to protect the land of high productivity. In order to prevent this, then, we also have six months to extend. The rest is simple legal. They're generally easy. I shall accept Mr Thanos Plori's amendment, which has a general number of 901 and a specialist number of 75. Why is this amendment being tabled? It's a change in court law. In various chambers - not in many, in two, three fortunately -...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u233	What's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u234	I'll testify to you. She's been filed by Mr. Ploris, and I'm accepting her.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u235	Let's see her.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u236	That's why I'm explaining it to you, Mr. Haritsi. You see I'm doing this before I talk, so we can have time to talk about it. I have no objections and ask what you want. In some chambers, therefore, there is this issue: Since the election time the majority on the municipal council has changed, because some consultants have left the governing party, they have gone to the opposition and so on. Since we have given a year to the elections due to the 'COVID', - elections we would normally have an end this year, but it will be a year later - the continuation of the administration of chambers by the management committee elected by the previous printing of the majority of the board of directors has caused the following problem to some chambers: the Management Committee proposes a budget for 'A'. This budget needs approval from the board of directors. The Management Board which no longer gives its confidence in the Management Committee shall not vote on the budget proposed by the Management Committee. What's that about? If we reach 30 June, then these chambers, since they have not submitted a statement, a balance sheet and a budget, must cease to work. So, if they have not found a way to reach agreement by 30 June, they have to stop working. I'm not hiding you that I've worked out every effort in my office to find quiet solutions. It didn't make it possible. So what does this amendment say? The management board may, acting by a majority of 50+1, elect a new management committee in the chambers. If, in other words, a Chamber of Deputies wants a Chamber of Directors to change, to elect a new board of directors, it can do so at any time by a majority of course, of the board of directors. In this way, this problem of conflict is being unlocked. For the record, I am making the legislative improvements so that colleagues can see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u237	How many speakers are still left, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u238	It's still seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u239	I'll hear all seven and speak last, because I don't want to blame anyone. So that Members will have time to see the amendments, and if they want to ask me a question, I will be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u240	I would ask that the explanations given by the Minister be copied and distributed. If anyone wants the floor after the study, I will definitely give it to him. For reasons of explaining to me and the Bureau is to be welcomed by Mr Zachariadis, and immediately thereafter Mr Yoyakas will be speaking. Mr Zachariadis has the floor. To wish him many years as well as Mr Buba I see him as Constantine. Other Constantine here I don't see. I wished Mr Marcou earlier. Here, Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. So we had to get to 2021 and sit on the collapsory chairs of New Democracy to hear what we should have heard since 2018, Mr Georgiadis, that it is a benefit to the patient and a benefit to the country of this bill. This morning I carefully saw the positions you made in 2018. I admit - I'm sorry for the evaluation, it might be a mistake - the best of all was Mr. Voridis. An amazing 12-minute speech. Hot spot was where he told us we were going to compete with Albania on drugs. I'll put it on my account. I suggest everyone sees her. In 2018, however, Mr Vlasis also had done a very good place as rapporteur. He was talking about infinite chassiosis, and you, Mr. Georgiadis, had said it with passion and Mr. Bukoros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u242	I hadn't spoken...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u243	Mr Loverdos - who has his honour these days - was a journalist at the time and abducted man with this 'crime' we are doing. Of course, I found a body of unscientific journalistic comments. You say now, Minister, that you did not know at the time, you saw them now, and you made a picture of Mr. Karanika. I really would like to ask you: Because you have gathered a world in your party, because you have a communication, Mr. Scortsos, Mr. Gerapitris, Mr. Chrysochoidis, Mrs. Pelonis, Mr. Pierracakis, Mrs. Mendonis, Mr. Amyras, Mr. Theocharis, Mr. Fotilis, were not talking to New Democracy at that time, to tell you something from what is going on in the country? All of these were on duty since 2008, who had written a program that said exactly the opposite. Previously, Mr Papandreou, the former Prime Minister of Parliament's Step. Those who are now ministers said nothing to you or did not listen to them. You weren't talking, Mr. Georgiadis? I know you're a man you're talking to about entrepreneurship? In 2018, you spoke with investors, didn't you? You tell us you're the investment party. I then spoke to the world of entrepreneurship and we were told that it is very good. In the European People's Party, didn't you get a phone to tell you what's going on? So I think you knew all this, Mr Georgiadis. And not on your own responsibility, but on the responsibility of Mr Mitsotakis, you have chosen to do - as you have said - the opposition of the bass. Because you didn't care about the benefit of the patient, you didn't care about the benefit of the country. Because then you cared about the benefit of the chair. Because you have the patriotism of the chair. Here this is the Step by the Chief of Officer's Representation, the current Prime Minister, and he said that we exchanged the Macedonian with the pensions. Cannabis medicine, would you stick to it? So you cared about what the well-known journalist confessed to, the issue of voting. All this - I want to be honest, Minister - I am not saying it to show and highlight irresponsibility, demilitarisation and fucking. That's obvious. Everyone understands that. It's the shortest joke in the focus just opened. I say this because your attitude and your attitude to other issues, Minister, fuels irrational thinking, unscientific thinking, conspiracy. All of this, which you have done to get into power, the screams, the delusions, the equilibrium speech, they fuel anti-political behavior, they fuel the extreme right. I told you before that I saw the speeches and see how you are present today. I really don't know what to believe. What you're talking about today or what you were talking about at the time. You say the same thing convincingly to be honest - you are the same convincing - but many people then called it more convincing. Do you have any opinions? Can what you are saying today, in three years' time, come to parliament and say the opposite? That's what worries me. If you stay in this position, it's good. But that really worries me. You will tell me - you said it from the Step of Parliament - 'we have no right to change our position'. Of course you do. 'We have no right to make a mistake?'. Of course you do. "Didn't you also change positions?" You'll say. Of course, we have also changed positions and there are always shifts in politics, and that is always political. That's the other question. Is this a structural displacement? Is this a real maturation? Is this about moral responsibility? If that is how to recognise it positively, we should make it easier. We spoke positively. If not all these procedures with Parliament were still in these limitations that we explained yesterday, we would be voting in favour of it. And we want to see the depth of this turn. But I do not think that is the case, Minister. I think you too last week chose to do communication data control. What you did, Mr. Georgiadis, last week, the picture of Karanika was what? You went out, you burned it, you lowered it, you made it funny. A serious political issue has become a joke. But it's not funny, it's serious. This is illustrated by your position on a number of issues, such as cannabis pharmaceuticals, the Ambassadors' Agreement, the provision and toxicity of public speech to other issues. Who wins from this? Is New Democracy winning? Temporarily then he won. In the long term, he'll lose. Is the country winning? No, he's losing. And then he lost, and today he loses out of it. Is entrepreneurship winning? No, entrepreneurship doesn't win, but it finds walls in front of her, finds several conspiracies. It wins, Mr Georgiadis, only populism wins only a strategy of blind opposition hatred, which says that in such a way I have to fight to be able to become power tomorrow. They lose the reasonable views of people, which you said before, in your position, loses self-evident, as Mr Papandreou said earlier. So we're not the same and we're not gonna be the same as you. Because for us politics, whether we are in the government or in the opposition, it is moral, it is principles, it is values. That is why we are dealing with positions in the pandemic, and we have supported in the pandemic the right proposals, and we have opposed the mistakes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute and I'll be done, Mr. President. That's why we put forward proposals in the economy, while you were four years with "Gerun, strong" and "Vasta, Soible". That's why with the natural disasters, we won't make you the opposition we've suffered. Why is this all happening? Because a culminating opposition makes a bad future government, as you are. Because a responsible Opposition, as we want to be, makes a good government and that kind of government we want to be, not opposing ourselves as an opposition, as you do now. Such a government will be the next government of Alexis Tsipras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr. Zachariadis. The Minister has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Zachariadis, I'd like your attention for just a minute. You know, you are a young Member of Parliament, I was once young in this Chamber, but it has been fourteen years and I have, I believe, matured parliamentaryly in relation to what I was at the time. The ottoman you spoke with is the same of youth, but he's harming politics. First of all, you have wondered orally and answered for yourself. Neither did you then benefit from your behaviour nor now nor do you benefit from entrepreneurship, nor Greece, nor anyone else. I'm sorry, Mr. Zachariadis, if we don't benefit anyone today, why are you voting for the bill? I'm against it. You understand that voting for something, which does not provide any benefit to Greece, is against the opposition of SYRIZA. So, please, at least vote against for you to be consistent with what you said. Although I am going to make my speech as a whole, I would like to give another half-minute reply. You're so unfair to yourself, I've got you for higher. Do you want to discuss structural changes and how did you justify them? I'll tell you the most structural thing I remember, I'll say a lot later. You're going to make me say it sadly. Theodoros Dritsas: He founded a municipal combination in Piraeus, the "port of agony", with a central slogan for the Chinese not to take the port of Piraeus. Dritsa, Minister for Commercial Shipping of SYRIZA, signed the sale of the PPA to ‘COSCO’. How did he justify his attitude? Here's how: The Germans pushed us into the memorandum. Did he ever say a bravo to the government of Kostas Karamanlis, who brought 'COSCO' to Greece? Never. Why? Because - and I told you in my speech to the committee to which you referred - our party, because it has ideological power and faith in what it does for Greece, can accept any mistakes she has and move forward with braveness and political dignity. You insist that you move your finger, while on the subject of changing political positions you are rather the party with the greatest displacement in political ideas throughout our post-political history. Historically, I'm going to, I repeat, in my normal speech, at least for a while, because you probably got away a little bit. I'm hanging up. You're too wrong with Mr. Karanika. Do you know why? When you keep saying: "You did the hagiography to him and you did the hagiography to him and you did the hagiography" - you said it three times, and that's why I say it three times - and then you said "That's funny", in fact you're hurting him, not me. Do you know why? First of all, I didn't do any hagiography to him. I recognized a man's contribution to a specific political act. No hagiographies here, no nicknames. Now, if you think that I recognized this man a particular contribution to a particular act, that this is funny, I'm sorry, you find them among you. I repeat, I am absolutely sure that if you look at the speech after a while, you will be ashamed of the speech you have made. The debate in committee and in plenary was global, it was civilized, it was extremely productive. I have just put forward legislative improvements, which I took part in the criticism of the opposition, because I do not want to close down the good debate we have had. "They're funny" and everything else doesn't honor, not Georgiadis, Zachariadis, for what we've achieved here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u247	No, we don't go on, there's no adversary. There wasn't any personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u248	He said I'd be ashamed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u249	That word, you're all using it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u250	It's the definition of personnel.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u251	Anyway, don't ruin your grace, because you're already celebrating today. Just be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u252	Be well. Mr. Georgiadis, I've known Nikos Karanika since eighteen years old. I'm thirty-six. You probably met him the other day. It made you the same positive impression that made me the first time. I, however, have never contributed to the murder of a political character and the spiral of persons. You may not have done that, but an entire party and an entire system have fallen on faces, without knowing and without knowing, and has pissed them off for small-party political benefits. We never did that. Second one. I welcome you to the role of the Nestor of politics in Parliament. I don't know if this is so diffuse in your own party. I think your new, responsible institutional self in the field is more acceptable than in your own party. If that has a follow-up, that is absolutely positive, Mr Georgiadis. But I fear very much - and I did not want to take the debate there, and I am closing with that, Mr President - that your reference to 2008 and the port of 'COSCO' should make you think about what you said at the time about Mr Karamanlis, about the New Democracy Party, about Mrs Bakoyannis and about a number of policies then followed by the New Democracy, and you from other benches, which you have changed your mind, have moved. I'm the eighteenth, Mr. Georgiadis, in the same party, in the coalition and in the SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u253	Here you go, Minister. You probably want to tell Mr. Zachariadis a lot for years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u254	Yeah, well, I've had to say a lot of years, 'cause I forgot about it. As the President-in-Office may have assured you, which is also an old one, in 2008 I supported the sale of the port to "COSCO" and I also entered the bus that the House had put in order to go to the signing ceremony with the then Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis in Piraeus, a bus we boarded, but never started, because the port was occupied by Mr. Dritsa and SYRIZA officials, who prevented MPs from approaching the port. Same thing I said in 2008, so am I. I told you, don't be in a hurry. Mr. Zachariadis, believe me, indeed, in this Chamber here, we had a very productive debate. This productive debate is a pity to be wronged at the end by your ostrich. I respect him, I have felt him, but here we are not to be delightful to either ours or yours, as you said, who are not sure on which side of the political spectrum the "new me" is more pleasurable. He's not young at all, I'm always the same. But you should know about me that I have never dealt with in my life in terms of popularity, nor have I been interested in being a good person. I'm only interested in being useful. Today's bill, believe me, is very useful to both patients and the Greek economy. As you support it and do it well, and not as a joke, which you said before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u255	We are now continuing with colleagues with webex and I give the floor to the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is expected that a party will defend options it made when it was a government, as SYRIZA does for the 2018 law on the production and export of medicinal cannabis. But it is not customary, Mr Zachariadis, that this choice should be recognised publicly by a political opponent, as the Minister, Mr Georgiadis, did. Why, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, do you only recognize as positive that you have opened the matter as a government, but do you not recognise as positive that the current government has regained its attitude by appreciating the many benefits for the economy? Why do you characterize as 'cybism' something that should be called for in the context of the continuity and consistency of certain government policies? Moreover, the art and technique of governance includes co-incorporation and synthesis with policies that are tested so that they can be improved or abandoned. Besides, admitting one's mistake or recognizing another's contribution, and indeed public, are behaviours that are not common in our political scene and we need more such behaviour. Ladies and gentlemen, in any case, for the problems of the law of 2018 it is not the absence of political consensus that Mr Haritsis accused New Democracy of. The problems are that the law did not facilitate exports of finished cannabis medicinal products, by limiting its market availability, but also by accessing patients to them and by not meeting the needs of foreign markets, but by ensuring the added value of Greek production. These problems come to answer the changes made to the existing regulatory framework with this draft law, which, as the representative of the Association of Enterprises of Cannabis, told the Commission, meets the needs of Greek, industrial and pharmaceutical cannabis and safely integrates it into the European and world market. Where, then, does the legislation we are discussing make a difference? It is worth summing up once again. First of all, for the finished cannabis products intended exclusively for export to the countries where they are authorised, there is no need for specific approval by the Agency, nor is the opinion of the Committee on Drugs. They can be sold abroad, regardless of when their circulation will be approved in our country. Sales and therefore the depreciation of the investment start earlier, with what this means for its viability. Secondly, the authorisation to produce finished products of dried cannabis pharmaceuticals, again without the specific marketing authorisation by the EEO, seeks to respond to international demand for this form. Businesses can thus sell their products branded and standardised and certify them to export to the European Union and thus exploit the quality advantage in our production. Third point, with the inclusion of end products of cannabis medicinal products in Table D of Article 1 of the Code of Drugs opens the way for their direct disposal to pharmacies, warehouses, hospitals, private clinics and public hospitals, always under the control of the EOF and only with the corresponding medical prescription. In other words, supply through a State monopoly is being abolished and offers are being made on the domestic market through legal channels in order to respond to a demand which is currently mostly served by means of illegal or marginal law. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the main changes with which investment incentives are strengthened, and exports are facilitated, as is facilitated by the disposal of cannabis medicinal products to patients living in our country. In this direction, moreover, the improvements and additions to which the political leadership of our Ministry referred are moving. Of course, the effort to develop this very promising export sector does not stop in this bill. We have already heard from the Deputy Minister, Mr Papathanassis, that he will soon come a separate bill for the Cannabis National Organisation. We hope that the establishment of such a body will pave the way for the support of scientific research and the development of know-how from our country. This will give a strong competitive advantage to our production and will trigger the participation of universities, research centres and businesses in other sectors. We can only support efforts such as this, which can bring about investment in foreign and Greek capital, to stimulate the extroversion of our businesses, to promote innovation, without, of course, forgetting all those people who have the right to legal, safer and economically more advantageous access to medicines that relieve their difficult everyday lives. We therefore welcome the fact that a part of the Opposition is voting for this bill in principle and we hope for the same flexibility, the same flexibility that the government has shown in this bill to show opposition parties in subsequent bills, such as the one to protect fundamental personal and social rights at work. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, too. Mr Maximos Sedetakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating confirms two key elements that identify the government's naturality, its commitment to the creation of a pro-investment climate - we are always legislating in the light of attracting investment, the creation of wealth and jobs - and the commitment of the state then. Without ideological claws, we keep positive and interfere with legislative improvements, where necessary. First of all, let us say that we recognised as positive the initiative of the previous government to approve the promotion, production and disposal of finished cannabis medicinal products. Obviously, as a party, we had our reservations. However, this does not mean that we will remain dogmatically attached to them. Nor, of course, would we reject the new scientific data that identify cannabis therapeutic properties. Therefore, with the political modesty that characterizes our space, we move forward and take the spit from the point left by the previous government. What's that point? They say it's evidence. One hundred and ten investment projects have been approved, sixteen pending and sixty are evaluated. One investment, however, has moved on, one in a hundred ten. So, here, there's a problem, something happens that keeps people from taking the investment risk. Because, as I said at the outset, we are legislating to facilitate investment, the Ministry of Development has brought in a law aimed precisely at resolving issues that block investment. Because the law of 2018 may have been groundbreaking for the customs and perceptions of the time, but it proved ineffective in practice and was overcome by reality. Other countries have moved faster, have seen the new trend in time and have already moved further ahead of us. The first main problem is that the previous law does not allow for the export of flowers, but also of any pharmaceutical form for which the producer of a company in Greece will obtain a registration and export licence in a country. So what does the previous law say to every prospective investor? I allow you to make the investment, but I do not allow you to create products that have an international demand. I don't allow you to be competitive, so I won't let you be efficient. So the investor's thinking about it, and he's doing well. Specifically, the EOF has approved three pharmaceutical forms, oil, cream and pill, at the same time as the German drug organization allows for bloom, spray and steam. This law removes this restriction without, of course, bypassing the EEO, who rightly wants to be meticulous. The restriction is lifted by the inclusion of cannabis medicinal products into the generic regime, where some of them take on authorisation to export to a country where they may be marketed before they can also be marketed in Greece. Thus the producer will be able to export abroad before obtaining the opportunity to sell to Greece. The second main problem solved by this bill is how hemp products are made available to the pharmacy. Here was the original restriction to be made available only by the State monopoly. The previous government itself perceived the ineffectiveness of the way and improved it slightly, allowing it to be disposed of by the pharmacy but only by means of a state monopoly. That, however, proved ineffective. The new law had to allow cannabis medicinal products, as well as expensive anticancer medicinal products from all private medicinal products and from the distribution channels of medicinal products, i.e. warehouses. I believe that these two key interventions will unlock the investments that are already pending. Not only will they be unblocked, but they will also be made more specialized, because the provision for exporting thirty grams against four hundred supported by the Anti-Population will keep processing capacity in the country and the product will not be exported as bulk abroad. So smaller, more specialized businesses, more staff and jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by pointing out that, once again, the Government brings in a law which has the acceptance of a large majority of Parliament. This means that the government has political modesty and suggests legislation, which is based on and promotes the common good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u259	We are also grateful to Mr Sedetakis and to Mr Baran Bourhan, a MP from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech I would like to wish the holidaymakers many years. It is not my intention to tire you, but to address each of you separately, calling for your attention to be given to this draft law on the production, export and disposal of finished cannabis medicinal products. The challenge for our country is to create the right ground and, more specifically, to create a functional, modern and attractive environment that will enable our economy to absorb capital from abroad and to develop Greece into one of the most productive powers of the European Union. However, as one can see, in this legislation, the objective of serving the patient has not been achieved and there is a clear lack of provision in this part of our fellow citizens and there is no incentive to the development of the domestic pharmaceutical industry. This results in many sick persons being forced to pay for exorbitant sums in order to alleviate chronic pains. Our country today as much as it ever needs a strategic prevention and protection plan for its citizens, and it should create an institutional framework that includes the therapeutic component as well as production, investment activity and development. Here, therefore, the issue comes, a request from almost all the stakeholders, for the establishment of a national agency or service on cannabis medicinal products, which we as a Change Movement support in order to resolve immediately. From the point of view of psychiatrists and on the basis of research, I would like to stress that it has been shown that the use of cannabis medicinal products can contribute positively to the treatment of patients suffering from multiple sclerosis, epilepsy or those suffering from neuropathic pain or canceric pain. Indeed, the Committee of Experts on Drug Relief of the World Health Organisation in 2017 mentions positive indications in a number of other diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Chronic Pain. But what does the government really intend to do about thousands of dependents - I stress this - of substances? Do you intend to take action that will give an interminable solution to this major social problem? Ladies and gentlemen, thousands of patients in our country demand immediate and crucial solutions from us. That's why we're here. The same people are forced to supply goods in an illegal manner and not a few times they are indicted before the judicial authorities. Therefore, the institutional framework concerning the use of medicinal cannabis cannot be fully characterised if we ourselves do not listen to the patient's need. Of course we understand the economic prospects, but I would like to stress that it does not reflect the position of the patients and, as has been said by the institutions, it is necessary to clarify the framework of approved diseases and specialities, a patient card and, above all, access to legal medicinal products for cannabis. So the government, in cooperation with academic and psychiatric bodies, must propose a piece of legislation that supports not only investors, but at the same time can give convincing answers and solutions to our fellow citizens who need to use medicinal cannabis so that all of this irregular activity that exists in a wide range of Greek society is not observed. So what we need and what we need is an organised, flexible and structured plan in a direct and essential way to support a large proportion of patients who will help them cope with dignity in chronic diseases with preparations that will provide them with oil and not psychotropic substances to deal with their diseases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u261	Thank you for the consistency in time. We continue with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Themistoklis Himara.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. I wish many years for the holidaymakers. Ladies and gentlemen, if we said a few years ago that cannabis cultivation would be a development opportunity for Greece, it would sound like something conspiracy and illegal or at best a joke. Science has, however, given a different response to the use of medicine and medicine cannabis. The well-known indications for its use include relief from pain, pressure, anxiety, the fight against insomnia and do not stop there. Cannabis is used in modern medicine to treat rare forms of epilepsy, reduce symptoms from multiple sclerosis, prevent and treat the consequences of chemotherapy, anorexia, and help relieve patients in the final stages of cancer. The investigations that examine its effects on autoimmune diseases, glaucoma, rheumatoid arthritis and prevention of transplanted organs are also open. Its effect as a medicine has been documented by scientific studies since 2002 and the significant contribution to its use has been clear. This documentation has contributed actively to increasing the purchasing value of cannabis medicinal products and to the creation of important development prospects. Of course, one of the reasons why this is happening is to upgrade and improve issues of legislation governing the production and marketing of cannabis medicinal products. So, when we understand the roads that open to the economy and development and therefore in cooperation, we are establishing provisions that will facilitate the export of cannabis medicinal products, ensure the smooth and safe supply of the Greek market with finished medicinal cannabis products after the necessary control of the EOF and speed up the implementation of investment projects for the production of the medicinal cannabis. I am taking this action, to highlight once again the importance of speeding up an investment. Speed is often the key to the success of the investment project. SYRIZA's Law 4523/2018, as the Minister of Development, Mr. Georgiadis, stressed in the Commission's meetings, moved in the right direction, seeing Greece's potential in this sector. So we come with today's bill to improve the institutional framework and make it even more effective. I say "even" because, yes, a hundred and ten investment projects may have arisen as a steward of this law, with ninety-six already approved, but only one has begun to implement. It has been mentioned by many colleagues today. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of the draft law have been fully and adequately presented by our rapporteur, Mr Kella, and have been discussed in detail at committee meetings. The leadership of the Ministry of Development and Investment itself has highlighted in detail the feasibility and potential of their provisions. They focus on its development approach at first sight to a world that turns lightning. In a global market, which is trying to adapt to the rapid changes and to the new equilibrium brought about by the pandemic crisis, Greece must run. It must run quickly and with decisions that are correct to achieve the best possible relaunch of the economy in terms of sustainable development. Our country has many comparative advantages, which the Government has shown us, uses and highlights for the benefit of the citizens. No chance of making use of these strong cards should be lost. This is the case with the cultivation and processing of finished cannabis medicinal products. With a strong advantage in the appropriate climatic conditions, which enhance the efficiency of investment projects, we are creating a clearly improved and pro-investing legal framework. Our aim is to mobilise new ones and speed up existing investments in the placing of dry blossom and cannabis preparations on the domestic and international market. Finally, I would like to point out the need to promote research and the clinical study of cannabis medicinal products in our country. The combination of scientific research and the know-how that will result from it and the growing production and export activity can certify the Greek brands as the most reliable and competitive. Ladies and gentlemen, most of us agree on the usefulness of today's bill. We agree that it will help stimulate the national economy, increase employment and create good new jobs. The broad consensus of today's bill shows precisely that, in common purposes for the good of the country and of the citizens, any ideological and political differences between us are entering a second stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u263	Thank you. We move on to Mr Simopoulos, the Member of the New Democracy. You have the floor, Mr Simopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. Our country has very great advantages in producing pharmaceutical plants and to some extent exploits them. As regards cannabis, the greatest advantage is the low cost of energy, which is much lower than other countries with a much colder climate. SYRIZA's government took a step. But noon. This is why not many investments have been made, but only one. Investors are there and we would expect them to flee to neighbouring countries a little further so that significant public funds and thousands of new jobs are lost. I believe that we are late to bring this bill, which I would point out is about investment in rural areas in the country. For example, I mention Kozani, Kilkis, Serres, Karditsa and Trikala. The step we are taking today is careful, too. The dry cannabis blossom will be exported. Under no circumstances is it allowed to use cannabis in Greece for entertainment purposes. I consider the allegations made by certain small parties, in particular, of counter-population, which are continuing on the grounds of a purely pro-investment initiative in the agricultural sector, to turn it into an opportunity of irresponsible burdology - let me - and risky. Today, an important initiative is also being adopted. I want to focus too much on this. An amendment is being voted on for an emblematic work by Thessaloniki. I am referring specifically to the Holocaust Museum of Greece - the so-called Jewish Museum - in Thessaloniki. It is another attempt that began on SYRIZA, but as was usually the case, it stayed at the level of announcements. This amendment involves an exchange of land between GAIAOSE and the Municipality of Thessaloniki on favourable terms, faster procedures, free of charge, without any payments of resources and without the need to submit documents and statements to the Land Office. Procedures are being speeded up and bureaucratic issues are being removed. With the exchange of land, the museum will be built in a more central position than the original one and designed in such a way as to form part of the coastal front as a reference point for the city. Later, he will join the Metropolitan Metropolitan Memory Park designed by the Municipality of Thessaloniki in the wider area of the old railway station. The amendment approves and defines new blocks in the area using cultural facilities. New building block - space used exclusively for parking, free spaces, green areas, pedestrian roads and road-planning, which is extremely important for the region. By means of this amendment, comprehensive regulation and urban planning is achieved in the area under regeneration. This will enable construction work to begin in a short time, which will enable it to begin in 2021, a year that has a special symbolism and impact due to the fact that it coincides with - let us take note of this - with the Greek Presidency of the international alliance for the memory of the Holocaust. Ladies and gentlemen, with this very important amendment, the implementation of the Holocaust Museum is coming closer. Both the museum and the Memory Park will have the effect of becoming Thessaloniki a European city, worldwide centers of the unscrupulous Jews. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u265	Thank you. We're closing the list of speakers with the MP of Mera25 Mr. George Logiadis. Mr. Loyadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u266	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are celebrating these days on the eighteenth anniversary of the heroic battle of Crete, where once again the courage and sacrifice of our people have emerged against the invader. Greece and Crete write history when we stand up and say 'no'. Eternal their example, their memory forever. There is no higher honor for the battle of Crete and national resistance than for the strong claim of German debts. Happy birthday, too, to celebrating and celebrating today. Regarding the current draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment, I would like as a MP from Heraklion Crete to point out that Minoan culture knew opiate poppy and used it for therapeutic reasons three thousand years ago. We see at the Archaeological Museum of Heraklion the goddess with raised hands that states binding, greeting, blessing as the archaeology professor of the University of Crete Mr. Nikos Stampolidis says. This goddess bears in its head a diaspora, decorated with three poppy flowers, symbols of health, euphoria and well-being. The goddess of Zeus is a kind of poppy from which many different drugs are made. Minoans knew the drug properties of this plant and used them for medical purposes as painkillers, analgesics, as well as drug abuse. It is worth wondering that so many centuries later, we are discussing, disagreeing and not taking advantage of the therapeutic uses of cannabis, a product which the climate conditions of Greece favour as much as possible. This draft law only focuses on exports and on obsession with the production and disposal of finished cannabis products. It aims to encourage and serve specific investment in large-scale foreign companies and not to provide tools and ways to promote innovative enterprises and cooperatives in this sector. It's just for export. The most serious problem of the draft law focuses on the fact that it does not show any essential attention to the needs of the Greeks who need this medicine from cannabis. It lets them either grow on their own - self-production - illegal cannabis, without specifications and controls at all risk for their health or address the very high cost of 'black market'. With a lot of birds. You help foreign major investors with huge and international interests and paradoxical economy and illegality in order to engage, lisverish and unjust interests. The worst part of all is that with Law 4523/2018 the possibility of using products from the cannabis plant sativa was introduced for the first time in Greece. The application of this law, however, is frustrating because, until now, no legitimately justified request has been made for a patient to be given such treatment to deal with diseases. You leave them the ballots of dealers, the illegality and the paranoid economy. On the other hand, to mention as an example that in Israel some 75% of cancer patients receive cannabis medicinal products under legal procedures. Your draft law only supports exports, it is only a link of a large chain from the seed, reproduction, cultivation, harvesting, processing, packaging and finally export. Anyone who controls this whole vertical network and not just one link of the network is reaping the gains of goodwill from the movement of the product in question. I wonder, Minister, would you give incentives for investment in hotels, for example, which, in line with today's draft law, would only be foreign, and the Greek consumer would not be allowed to use them? Would you give incentives and subsidies to produce top Greek products, such as olive oil or feta PDO only for exports, and would you ban the Greeks from buying them when the Greek market needs them so much? One more reason for a medicinal product, which is also so necessary for the domestic market and which still does not exist legally. But you in committee said on 11 May that the matter is more complex for the domestic market. You said exactly the following and I read: 'It is also the subject of the country's culture. It is also the point that in Greece we also have the problem of recreational illegal production of hemp in various places." Don't underestimate our intelligence. Because we are from Crete to stress that we know very well people, things and situations. The Americans say "follow the money", that is, search for and follow economic interests to see why it is done and who wins. As an opposition you were also personally opposed to this draft law on the use of medicinal cannabis. "Law of the Bombs", you called it deceptive at that time. You told the committee on May 11th that in 2018, so recently and not forty-five years ago, you were not mature to recognize the great potential that the pharmaceutical cannabis gave for the development of the Greek economy. Now, just three years later, you're prospering. So fast, so you're mature? What's he doing "youth-young in the tiles"? The interests are enormous, because demand from countries that have developed a serious industry around the drug cannabis is enormous. The demand for, for example, in Israel is so great that the government has allowed imports of cannabis products that are not certified in accordance with the best practice of cultivation and production imposed by the European Union. You leave the Greeks who need the medicine cannabis in their luck. To cultivate it on their own, to make it on their own, to be illegal, and therefore to be vulnerable and dependent on many and varied interests and not to be safe in the production process of the product. This is how you mock up the black market, the misequal economy, the illegality, the complexity, a huge complex of interests and dependencies. On the contrary, in 2007, the Association of Ierapetra Crete, by decision of its board of directors at the time, had requested and tried to establish the cultivation of industrial cannabis, as is done all over the world, to bring the then competent Ministry of Rural Development certified seeds for legal cultivation and for any legal subsequent use for pharmaceutical purposes. The chairman of the board of directors said then and I read: "So, perhaps we will secure our future and our children in the face of the economic disaster that will come if the prisoners continue to be in lethargy". How prophetic those words were then, in 2007! The disaster has come, but it's probably because of Barofakis. Therefore, while the institutions urgently request the possibility of developing and controlling the use of cannabis for purely pharmaceutical reasons and the needs of the Greeks who need this medicine, under clear legal procedures, specifications, controls and within one of the state-defined frameworks, you are only looking at foreign interests and cannabis products only for export. Commandments from above and outside. I close by saying - because you have again referred to the past - bring and open the file of Greek bankruptcy to the House, as called for by Mera25, and as the Prime Minister had boldly announced in the election, otherwise you speak for free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, too. The Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Georgiadis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u268	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to introductoryly express my thanks to all my fellow Members, because the debate on the draft law on cannabis medicine, which I had the honour of presenting to Parliament as Greek Minister for Development and Investment, was very much welcomed and accepted by Parliament. Three parties, New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement expressed their support for the bill and the main thing is that there was a very sensible and productive discussion. In my opinion, we have taken a great step forward in the progress of our political culture here. I would like, before I go into the particulars of the bill, which we have discussed with both the committee and all day long, to begin with a response to the main argument of many of SYRIZA speakers - either to my face or to the fact that I have the honour to represent both in the Chamber and in the Greek society as Vice-President of the European Parliament - for cybernetics, assholes and various other arguments which, in my opinion, have been very unfortunately used by various colleagues. I'll explain the personal part a little bit. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider the debate to be counterproductive to the debate on the so-called asshole. In general, I am not using it too much or I have been using it in the past, mainly because I understood from the outset that in politics, whoever is absolutely firm in his views today will either remain exposed, because of this stability for counterproductive behaviour or will soon be overtaken by developments. We can also agree from the debate we heard unanimously that the party which remains more stable in its ideas at every meeting, regardless of the electoral cycle and the external conditions, is the Communist Party of Greece. I've been here for fourteen years in all the bills they say exactly the same. So whoever dislikes the so-called assholes, I'll explain to you a little what I mean, obviously he can vote for the JV, which says the same thing and doesn't change anything. In my opinion, it's the most stable party. Now whether you agree or disagree with his ideas is another thing. The fact that it's stable is stable, though. If, then, a politician's credibility is stability, then we are all going to be members of the Communist Party of Greece. Obviously, we do not intend to do that, because it cannot be that criterion in politics. It is the responsibility of the politician to certainly always defend his principles until the end, but of course to adapt his behaviour and political actions in the circumstances and the interest of the Greek people, that is, the people who have been charged with his mandate to come here to defend his fates and make his life better. So to be specific, I see once again my friend Mr Zachariadis there, who accused our own party of big cybism, big ass and stuff like that at the time of his role. I have chosen two, three, I wrote them out of the clipboard just to play a little bit with mind and understand, because I told you that you didn't deserve that speech. We will abolish the Memorandum with a law and an article. Have you heard a greater political change in history than this? We will abolish the Memorandum with a law and an article to become the best students in the Memorandum of Europe. Question: The fact that Mr. Tsipras made the famous asshole in July 2015 after the seventeen hours of negotiation was for the good of the Greek people or for the bad? I catch up with you, it was for the very good. If Mr. Tsipras hadn't done what was called a dick in the natural subconscious in the summer of 2015 Greece will be outside the Eurozone, most likely within the European Union and I would not even like to think about how we will experience the pandemic if we didn't have the protective umbrella of the euro. So did Mr. Tsipras change his position or badly? We as a New Democracy should then only be interested in the cybism or the interest of the Greek people where two weeks later we voted for the complementary measures and the Tsipras Memorandum, only because the majority had been lost after the withdrawal of a third member at the time of the SYRIZA. We'll do an investigation against Venizelos for the PSI. Do you know how many times I've heard of this between 2012-2015, Mr. Zachariadis? Because you told us about the responsible opposition and told us whether the opposition is irresponsible there is a bad government. That's good, that's good. I take it as self-critic. So, tell me, how many times did you, Mr. Tsipras, SYRIZA's MPs, have said that you're going to do an examination for the Venizelos PSI and take him to prison? Maybe two or two times I've heard of it. Did you do any exams for the PSI five years in the government? Oh, no. On page 23 of the SYRIZA budget, however, it stated: ‘Greek debt is viable after the February 2012 PSI’. Normally so many times that you have written it in the budget you should have called on Mr Venizelos and given him a formal notice, anyway, you did not, as you promised. Did you ever apologise to Venizelo for what you were dragging at him? Oh, no. Do what you don't hear. You're pretending this so-called asshole never happened. Let's go down. The day before yesterday I was with the Prime Minister, I had the honour of accompanimenting him to the opening of the new Macedonian airport in Thessaloniki to complete the investment of 'FRAPORT', i.e. the renovation of the fourteen airports with the public-private partnership where the Antonis Samaras government started. Do you want me to remind you, Mr. Zachariadis, gentlemen of SYRIZA, what did you say then? I'll tell you some. Paul Paulakis: "I will defend with my body the Germans not taking the airport of Chania." A talent there that you had in the Ionia district, a Galatsatus had a chain around the airport said: "I will not let anyone in." And Terrence Quick, the partner and Minister to your government said: "We will defend our airports until the last spin of our blood from the German occupation." Finally, as we learned in the event yesterday, in 2017 the SYRIZA Government signed the sale of airports at the "FRAPORT" - and its good, it was right - and yesterday Mr. Spirtz, who played an important role against the "FRAPORT", represented Mr. Tsipras and the Germans, the CEO of "FRAPORT" also thanked Mr. Tsipras for signing the agreement in 2007. And that's what we'd call a fucking papa, Mr. Zachariadis? So that was your bad behavior? I could go on until the other morning. I don't have to say any more, I think we've come to an agreement. I only mentioned the so-called assholes, which I think are good for you to do, that you have finally benefited the Greek people and have done well, because if I continue with what you say as opposition Greece would have suffered damage. My friend Mr. Katrinis spoke here. I'm saying an example of something that you did together as an asshole along the way. If you go to YouTube you'll see a video very interesting, it was the first lesson I took in my life as Minister of Commercial Shipping in 2011, where then I realized for the first time how much damage counterpopulation can do. At that time in government Kostas Karamanlis, we were talking about 2008, the competition for the sale of the port of Thessaloniki had been completed. At that time, he won a Chinese company HUDSON and offered 500 million euros for the sale of half of Thessaloniki, of a pier. There's been a big fuss about the city of Thessaloniki. On YouTube, I said before, you will see a video, which is Mr. Kastanidis with then organized trade unionists of PASOK and many MPs then of SYRIZA who attacked the port gate - you can find it very easily on YouTube, searching: port of Thessaloniki, Kastanides and coming out - trying to break the chains to prevent the sale of the port at "HUDSON", 500 million for half the port. Finally, the port of Thessaloniki was sold to the government of Alexis Tsipras, not half for 234 million. For a while, make the reduction, half the port 500, the whole 234 minutes, how much money we lost, because some wanted to throw a door, and then society forced the Karamanlis government back. Of course, as the biggest change of political behaviour, for the good of Greece, the change, for evil was the previous ones, I go a little back just to remember the famous slogan: 'EEC and NATO the same union'. PASOK in 1981 was elected to take us out of the EEC and from NATO. Did he get us out? Oh, no. Did he do all right and didn't get us out? He did very well. What do I mean by that? That the idea of defending never changing position and whoever does it is on fire is, after all, a strong - I speak in ancient Greek, that is, little - a good idea. Let her, Mr. Zachariadis, the sinner first put the stone! I'm telling you, because I have a hope that he'll be a good politician and I don't say it ironically, I mean it so I don't get misunderstood. It is a low-level criticism, it has no value, it leaves with time lost meaninglessly. However, I must also speak on personal grounds. My attitude was shocked. Championships, trouble, site, here's talks. Why was he shocked? I have an opinion why he was shocked. Because in your heart you're ruined by the New Democracy Polakis account. How is the fascist, far right-wing Georgiadis, the whispering with windows able to recognize with political bravery something on his political opponent and on a rival political party and, in particular, SYRIZA? That doesn't fit in the account. So that's what shocked him. Because whoever of course has followed my political route these fourteen years here knows very well who Adonis Georgiadis is. A few days ago, Mr. Andricos Papandreou called to thank me for my contribution to the condemnation of Mr. Kammenos. Do you know why? Why in 2010, when Kammenos first said "broker" to George Papandreou and his family about CDS, do you know who was the only MP who stood up and fought with Kammenos and from there began my famous enmity with Kammenos who arrived at the courts in thirty trials? The suspect. Do you know who recognized this? Andreas Papandreou - the so-called Andricos - who invited me back then and before his and I gave him all the evidence and the CDS to deal with Kammenos in court. Yes, I was a political opponent with George Papandreou and I didn't want to work with his government at all. I had a lot of political disagreements, but when I saw an injustice in one of my politicians, I stood up to defend him. Well, is that bad? Is it to be chilly? In the Minutes you will see that I have played the government of Papandreou for "GENERAL", Anna Diamantopoulou for the Law of Diamantopoulou, a law that I voted as the rapporteur at the time of the People's Orthodox Alarm and even received Mrs Diamantopoulou's credit at the end of the meeting. I was the first to recognize Andreas Loverdos as the Minister of Health at the time, his important contribution with the reform of the EEAY, but also his great contribution to e-prescription. But now, on the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, did I ever hide the positive contribution of Mrs Perka and Mr. Flamouraris to the progress of the Greek project? They may not have succeeded in completing it, we seem to be luckier, but always in every speech I have said "yes, these two people have helped". So what? They're my political opponents. What's that supposed to mean? That they're my political enemies? So those who have been shocked by my deed have probably not studied me enough. It is absolutely certain that for me this has always been my political behaviour. Sometimes tons may rise, I don't. We won't get bored. We are living people, and when we have some acute disagreement, we may say a word more, but my general behavior, personal, has always been this. And most of all, that was my behavior. I am very proud to be Vice-President of the New Democracy, because you know exactly what the New Democracy is about Greece and why it remains the largest political power of the country? Because he can make moves like the one he's doing with the drug cannabis bill. She has no problem admiting her mistake, recognizeing her opponent positively, nurture his positive opponents and go further to Greece. That's our big difference. We, Mr Zachariadis, can recognise you when you do something good. Let me know once one of SYRIZA recognized something good for something that New Democracy did or even much more PASOK, which half of you have taken to your parliamentary group. Here the SYRIZA colleagues, who were former ministers of Giorgos Papandreou, never refer to the period when they were Ministers of George Papandreou. They are ashamed to report it, not to mention anything and bother SYRIZA's election audience. This is our big difference and this big difference is a difference of ideological supremacy and faith in our values and ideas and not of weakness, as you perceived it or as wisely mentioned "Tomorrow can you say anything else?" With what I said about you, it would be the same question, but I will answer you for us and answer you whenever you want. We will always say the same thing, what we consider to be the interest of the Greek people. If what is in the interest of the Greek people differs from what we said yesterday, we will say what is an interest on that day. Because here we did not enter either to win popularity, as you said, nor to gain applause. Here we enter with one single purpose, make the lives of Greek citizens better. If we all realise that politics has this character and it is not a battle between us, but only a skateboarding between groups, which one and one of them delivers the spoon to another, and if everyone runs a little further, we will give the Greek people a better life, we will remain opponents, but the Greek people will live better, which is what is called for. I close with my staff only with the latest report on 'killing of a character', which I have just heard. Now, tell me about murder of a character, I'm sorry, but only as an ignorance of danger is taken as a nerve. I would remind you of just one word: 'NOVARTIS'. You've taken me out, a thief, and you've found me so-called bills in my secretary, myself, in my house. They'd go in and get the keys to my house Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. In the newspapers that support you, tens of times I'd be in strips of suits next month. Until your former Member had announced my arrest for November 2018, along with the others involved then in this construction. Can anyone from SYRIZA speak to New Democracy and me personally about attempted murder of a character, Mr Zachariadis? You should think about it very well before you say it. I'm sorry, but we have a sense of what we're saying and who we're telling. So I'm shutting down personal. I think we've come to an understanding. Let me say one last thing about my former personal attitude. It does not change what I say, because the attitude here is on the line and the party had voted 'no'. As you would have seen, however, from a small point of view, I had not personally spoken of cannabis medicinal products at all. I didn't talk at all. As you will see from my course in the previous period, I was talking to almost all the bills. That is what I had not talked about, because I had serious reservations about our position at the time, which I had expressed internally. All you have found to tell me was, indeed, a comment on the show of Giorgos Evas, humorous, in the context that the first investment that SYRIZA brought is the basilica, I would say to you very successful humorous. The truth is, no matter how much you searched my own speech about it, you didn't find out why I didn't want to talk. But that does not mean that the New Democracy should have backed the bill at the time. Obviously, he should have supported the bill. I tell you from now on, to see that politics likes honesty and bravery. We're not losing anything to say self-evidently, Mr. Haritsi, we're winning. The Greek people are watching and counting. Yes, if we had then shown a more productive behavior, probably you could have brought in a more advanced bill. I don't want to deprive you of your good intentions at all. After all, that is the logic of this coexistence within Parliament. So what did we do now? We've taken a big step. We all did it together. Adonis Georgiadis did not do it either by the Mitsotakis government. We all did it together. The three parties that we met in this debate have discussed, corrected what we could. I mean, two things here. Because I have followed the dialogue between Mr. Kokkalis and Mr. Papathanassis before, I would like to make it clear that I disagree with Mr. Kokkalis and with the way he put it. We, for what we want to achieve here, absolutely want the processing value to live in Greece. So if the bill did not take this form - and I will say after the grams - then in fact in Greece there would be a small creature from all of the pharmacy investment and the great added value would go to the country where the dry blossom would be exported to bank, in large quantities, where it would also be processed in order to get the various pharmaceutical forms out or enter the smaller bags, etc. We wanted this goodwill to stay here. That's why this bill was written. We want large investments in the cannabis of 20 million and 30 million. We do not just want to produce and export cannabis. That's the little one, it's the easy one and the little one. We want serious investments with tens of millions of jobs that will give rise to jobs, they will export products that have high prices and bring back high export value to the country. That is why the bill has been written and we have been very concerned about it - and I inform you - how exactly we will write this part in particular. The law we used isn't a new idea, I'm saying it again. I told Mr. George Papandreou before. The law we have used is the exact wording of the law, which currently applies to generic medicinal products and which allows the good Greek pharmaceuticals to export generic medicinal products that are not available in Greece. Because, well or badly, to get permission in Greece it can take a year and a half to get the export licence, do it in a month and they can sell at a time when, if they waited for the marketing licence in Greece, they would lose the customer, they would lose the market. This regulation enabled Greek pharmaceutical companies to have very large exports and large market shares in other countries. So this regulation already exists there, we bring it to the hemp pharmaceutical bill, respecting the EOF, but at the same time giving the opportunity to blossom a business and bring wealth to the country. I have tabled some articles to the committee as well, but I will put them again now, because many of our fellow citizens may not be following the committee, which is usually less publicised, just to explain to the people why three parties agree on this bill. Publication by the BBC: ‘A global review in attitudes towards cannabis is under way’. From Germany ‘Medical cannabis policy and practice in Germany’, in June 2020, exactly how they built their legislative framework to use cannabis. The value of cannabis was recognised by the United Nations Recognise the technical value of cannabis September 2020. From "BHMA" "The use of cannabis improves behavioural disorders in dementia patients". By ECONOMIST ‘Medical cannabis product applied for epilepsy’, for epilepsy. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We could find another dozen more articles in the international press. It is clear, however, that a large new market has been born for those interested in investment, but on the other hand, many new forms of cannabis raw material exist and are towards the relief of patients. I heard - I think Mr Kutsubas said so, if I didn't hear it well, I'm sorry - that we are addicting, saying, drug patients or anything else. But anyway, patients, even if you remove cannabis, for the removal of their pains today receive a series of drugs. Narcotic is morphine, narcotic is "Xanax", narcotic is "Lexotanil". All these drugs are also regulated by the drug law. It's not like we'll have the cannabis, which is drug, or we'll have other drugs, which aren't drugs. Every heavy painkiller for heavy illness at its base is drug, because it interferes with our nervous system to reduce the sense of pain. That's the concept of anesthesia. Therefore, the dilemma of taking drugs for the patient as painkillers or not has been answered, dear, for centuries, not even for years. So, what's the bill doing? I reckon: The bill first relies on the previous law of SYRIZA. I repeat: I bring an organization independent of cannabis, it will come in the next few weeks. The reason why he didn't come to this bill is because this bill is reforming the Narcotics Act and stepping on the previous law of 2018 and could not legally come in here to establish an independent body. So what did we do? We took the law of SYRIZA, which is indeed applicable, and the law is not repealed, the law of 2018 applies, the way in which the crop is to be grown, the manners of storage apply, the manners or types to be recorded, which will be carried out with the police, how the production process will be controlled, all the same as provided for in the previous law. What's changing? First of all, as I said before, the rapid approval of pharmaceutical forms licensed by a foreign authority for export is allowed, so we are not expecting approval by the EEO, secondly, for the external market, from Table C in Table D. I heard, I think Mr. Blondie, that this wasn't necessary from Table C, it was enough for the cannabis to work. I think Mr. Blonde said so. Mr. Blonde, I respect him. I want to make it clear that here many times we're not enemies, we're rivals. I only exclude the agents for "NOVARTIS", who went to prison with slander. With them we are enemies, unfortunately. I'm closing the parentheses. Mr. Xanthos is not right about what he said and I'll tell you right away why he's not right. What is the main difference in Table C and Table D? I explained it to the Commission. We were very concerned about whether we were going to move it in his place, in the painting, I mean, of the substances. If you put it in Table C - you put it about two weeks before the 2019 national elections, before you had it in Table B - it can also be available from private pharmacies, from Table C but can only be available to private pharmacies via the state monopoly. That's the difference. The big difference with Table D is that it is available in private pharmacies and also via the pharmaceutical stores, that is also via the private sales channel. All of our other drugs, Hanax, Lexotanil, Tramal, etc., are bilinear recipes, are drugs, are kept in the drugs back, in the safe, are in Table D. Why? Because with access to private storage, there is definitely better distribution channel, easier access to the medicine for the patient. Is that reason to fear that the drugs will be found in the wrong hands? Because it's a drug. No, it's the answer. In both Table C and Table D, a two-line medical prescription is needed. That doesn't change. I mean, it doesn't mean that because he went to Table D, everyone can take the cannabis medication without only needing it if his doctor writes it with a double-line recipe can take it. He also said Mr. Xanthos that we need registry for patients and it is right, but we need very many people, who unfortunately still haven't fixed them. Registry I remember that I voted for them by law in 2013 when I was Minister of Health and unfortunately so far few diseases have had patients with registries, but he said something that is not right, that we should also have the register of doctors who will write these medicines. In any case, today alone specialist medical skills can write narcotics, not all doctors can write. Specific doctors can write these medicines and they themselves will be the ones who will be able to write cannabis medicines. The framework is therefore sufficiently safe and flexible to ensure that the patient who will need to find it, but also strict to ensure that there is no general dispersion of these medicines in people who may not need it. It's a balanced provision and I feel very safe about it. What else have we added? That if you can get the export licence in the way we said before, even dry blossom should at least have another production of pharmaceuticals in Greece. Why have we put this article on? Because, I repeat, we want to attract substantial investments. In order to make even a pharmaceutical form in Greece you have to have a RNB laboratory, which means that the investment itself is too large, and you can proceed with the licensing of this product. So the reason why all this comes to the bill is that we want, not just to cultivate drug cannabis, but to cultivate it systematically and in order to dominate or exist on foreign markets to bring serious income to the country. The criticism I have heard before that it is difficult to establish and license a registration procedure is incorrect. There's a law in SYRIZA, we just repeat it, but there's right, that's right, that's why there's another installation license, that's the license I'm giving you to build the factory, and I'm checking you if you put the mantles right, if you have built the lab, the greenhouses, this is the installation and another marketing license. First you have to install it, see that you did it well, produce products to check that the products are what you say and then take a marketing licence. If you have a license only then nobody controls you and nobody knows if what you promised has really happened. In the criticism that has been heard about the thirty grams - it has also been heard by Members of the New Democracy - I want to be honest with you. IF asked for 10 grams. In fact, it started out from five grams and finally reached ten and said that in other countries it was ten grams, in a debate that lasted several months we reached thirty grams. The demand for companies who want to operate on cannabis was for a minimum of sixty grams. In fact, it was heard by an agricultural professor who came here that the sixty grams are the most reasonable - I did not know it, I heard it by the professor - that sixty grams is the weight of all this plant when it passes through the processing stage. In the period from the committee so far I have talked to the IF to see whether such a change could take place in a consensus spirit of mutual retreat. IF is unresolved in this position. I do not want to start a bold bill to start with the EOF having it across and I do not want it for reasons of order and substance. The EEA will play an essential role in the success of this project and from the speed that will issue product marketing authorisations and from the speed that will give export licences. I do not want anyone to think that I intend to bypass the National Medicines Agency or underestimate the National Medicines Agency, which is why we will remain 30 grams. I believe that when this market starts to work - I really believe it within me - we will soon have to make new arrangements that will be more brave and more bold than today. However, let this market begin to work, let our patients start to know the medicine cannabis and doctors to learn to prescribe it properly, and we will certainly be ready to do, again in a peaceful spirit, a more bold attempt in this direction. I have to say that if I had the agreement of the FDA, I would go to sixty grams. To sum up: Today, we put, in what I read before, the legal arrangements for the introduction of seeds for research purposes that you requested us, Mr Haritsis, added it and as you know we added the piece, which we again had a small disagreement, of high productivity land, to allow the market to land smoothly in the new reality without showing that with a steep arrangement we are going to get someone to benefit, let's go to harm. So, six months we think it's a long time to decide if anyone really wants to buy or doesn't want to buy or if he wants to try to buy from somewhere else. I do not agree with Mr Katrin that we should not allow the extension of factories. I say again, because I want it to be heard, because I respect every argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u269	Or be up to a limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u270	I told you it will not be possible to reach a limit, because it does not allow the investment itself, its substance, but you have spent tens of millions of dollars on building facilities in a place. Obliging him to dismantle them and go somewhere else is refreshing, doesn't make sense. So the one who's already got the license should be able to operate in the space that's going to go ahead. I believe that we are sending two important messages from Parliament's Chamber today. Mr. Haritsis, I can't say it. The idea that you have tabled a roll-call vote on a bill that you are voting on, I parliamentarians would like to say that it goes beyond me. I didn't get used to it, I don't mind, she's welcome to God. It is just a little paradoxical to put a vote on something you want to vote on. Apparently, you're looking forward to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u271	It's odd what we've been living all these months. The whole of Europe has been opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u272	Don't worry, I'll take it. We're not going to ruin this. I told you that the proposal is welcome. Obviously you, too, have fallen victim to the misinformation of a generalised rebellion of the Members of the New Democracy who do not want to vote on this bill. So it would be better if you applied for a roll-call to prove what I have always believed and believe. We in the New Democracy are a team and can join and support our policies and defend them and explain why we have them. The roll-call vote will simply take some time from parliamentary procedures. I don't know, because I haven't heard of it so far, whether you want to leave or not like yesterday. I would like to tell you honestly my opinion, and to submit a roll-call and agree and retire, it goes a lot. I'm speaking with great honesty. I think it's too much. What can I say to you is your right, I will barely keep you in the Chamber, it is your right to God, do what you want, it is just wrong to do the effort we have done. I repeat what you say at the same time. You agree, you vote, you file a request for a denomination and you leave. Hey, guys, you can't do it all at the same time. You have to choose something. Again, I'll tell my friend, Mr. Zachariadis, who called me before Nestor, that I don't want to play Nestor. I'm older than you, but not that much anymore. Forty-nine arrives in November. All right, we've said it! The Nestor, you know, was over eighty. In any case, I want to tell you that people see this and don't win from it. On the contrary, from your standpoint to vote and to have a constructive debate and add things from your own proposals to the bill, in my opinion, you win, because people see who, after all, is here to make their lives better. That's what's interesting about the world, not the other one. Don't forget - I'm closing up with this - that the fight and the show is good, I'm not saying. I've had a career with these too. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u273	Excellent!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u274	Very good!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u275	I know how to do it very easily. But I'm telling you, this is more about television. We are here in the House and the important thing to the Greek citizen is to find solutions to his problems. That's what matters. Did you find a solution to his problems? He's voting for you. You didn't find it? He's forgetting you, and he's going to find the next one. This message, remember it. It'll do you good. If you want to leave after all this, you leave. What can I tell you? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u277	Wait a minute. First of all, the rapporteurs will take the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, my name has been mentioned many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Zachariadis, I have heard your name too many times. So explain where the staff is. Today we're not ruining your grace.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u280	Minister, I almost lost count of how many times you mentioned my name. I heard you carefully, and I would like to say that from what you said and referred to me, nothing has been addressed to me. It was all about your inner-party audience, it was all about the rampant criticism you've heard from the collapsing benches, murmurmurmurs, and from the congressing press. I want to be absolutely clean with you. If today's switch is honest, welcome, if it's hypocritical, it'll show again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, I would like to speak for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u282	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u283	I'm afraid we'll be misunderstood at the end, so I promise I won't answer you again. Listen: If we as our co-chairman press you put the newspaper, for example, "DIMMOCRATIA", which made us a headline, I'm sorry, but that goes a lot. This is a joke. There was no murmur in any form of confrontation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u284	The Ministerial Council...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u285	The Ministerial Council has been in the House for over a month. So that's not what this is about either. Every political move, however, has supporters and non-supporters. So listen to Nestor's last advice. Do not monitor whether you are popular or unpopular with either yours or others. Watch what the Greek people tell you - that's what matters - and go with your conscience and you'll be fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, I will give all the rapporteurs the floor from three to four minutes. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u287	Thank you very much, Mr President. This bill concerns how some companies, mainly from the USA, Israel and Canada, come to Greece, buy land, produce a product as raw material, which requires too much water, more water than “sinner” cotton, which the bill does not oblige to have any measures to save water, no standard water management and then consume too much energy. As we know, greenhouses use lamps to reach the four crops a year. This bill does not now, in the century of climate collapse, provide for any commitment to come from RES. Of course, we are well aware of the working conditions in glasshouses. This bill provides for nothing to prevent people from being exploited. Also, this bill does not provide for a final product, a verticalization in Greece. In essence, we have raw material, which will be exported to produce the medicinal product elsewhere, to which the Greek patients who need it will not have access, who are even forced or excluded from the use of the cannabis medicinal product or use it illegally. I mean, we have a land snatch. In other words, they take some land, water and energy to export a raw material to produce a product elsewhere. That's colonial. It would be worse if SYRIZA's proposal for cultivation were passed on high productivity land. We should normally stop talking even about photovoltaics on this earth. It should not be in the century of climate change that we doubt our ability to produce food when we know that climate conditions will be dramatic from now on. I would like to close with the amendment, which the Government rejects for the thirty years a ban on mining, building houses and real estate projects and investments in PV, in arson-burned areas, whether this concerns the GDR or other areas of Greece that are well known to the public. It is something that we have been through the European Parliament and we are calling for the Greek state to be law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, too. Mr. Bubas from the Greek Solution has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u289	Now, time is very short, Mr President. That's true. I will try as much as I can to manage it, because there is also a number of amendments and we need to be placed. First of all, Minister, you did not answer Mr. Villardos for LAMDA and Mr. Latsis, the 313 million for the alleged investment of the Greek. And I say it supposedly, for what our President, too, was calling for the skyscrapers. Have you seen what problems the skyscrapers have created in Limassol in Cyprus? So the Minister didn't answer us. You said now that you went to the "FRAPORT" airport "Macedonia". Be psychologically ready, because you're going, maybe, more and more, and they'll tell you, "Doove North Macedonia". They'll put the "b" after the "Dopro vet Macedonia", because how things change and how people change over time about what you have said and about Skopje. With regard to the amendments you are bringing, once again you are applying the soup method: you are blurring the waters. We cannot vote differently. You put everything together in the amendments. You are bringing in amendments concerning deposits of oil, hydrocarbons, or natural gas. I have been questioning Mr. Velopoulos since 1996, but he's been verifying. The Greek Solution was shouting and you considered it as painting for the oil, for 'ENERGEAN'. Who created this company? Matthew King, Stathis Topuzoglou. Bankers! Look, it's the company that just issued a bond worth EUR 2.5 billion a while ago. It's the biggest bond on the energy market, outside America, by a Greek company. Neither OTE, nor Mytileneus, nor PPC, catch the 500 million. In fact, it's three and a half times on the offer. It has been taken, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the Israeli side. It has eight hundred million cubic cubic gas open to Israel who will manage. She's the one who runs the Prenos, North Prinus and Echolon and has profits. Do you want to fund it with 100 million when Mr Constantine Nicholas, the CEO, said in 2015 about jobs and now 'ENERGEAN' will send people away? Is Mr Hatzidakis calling for LARCO, which was badly financed for the cobalt, which Europe's industry is in the Vienna Declaration allowing it for LARCO? Will you fund this company when it has unstoppable profits and plays an active role? This is where he bought shares in ‘Respum’. You know that? She bought her share of "TOTAL" in Catalo at the other look. This is the 'ENERGEAN', which you are going to finance with a EUR 2.5 billion bond. When you talk about oil and hydrocarbons there is the Greek Solution, which knows exactly exactly what is going on with the deposits. Echolon's look is forty - one million barrels. It's the Baburas position in general. Check it out. You have brought, Minister, an amendment. Mr. Floris, I don't know which side he's seeing. It is this extension to the presidencies of the chambers of commerce. They had to be in November 2021. You're giving them an extension for a whole year. Why? Are some of your people in the chambers and you want to extend their term? Why don't the elections take place earlier? What's the point? A year of extension to Chambers, where in other bodies are some months? Finally, because we don't have time, you didn't answer me, the contracts for the Indian cannabis - marijuana, hashish - because in New Democracy you say that the sky will be more blue, too tobacco I see, no black! - Was it a few days before the election? Will BIOMECANN and BIOPROCANN take the job or will it be the multinational company of Israel in Corinth? They're twenty-five companies in pre-approval. But what I read is a few days before the poll. Do you have an obligation to continue in the troika of alliance with SYRIZA? I'm asking. You know - I'm closing up with this - it's not just the medicine cannabis. It's marketing. Of the 3% that our young people were in 1980 using hashish has gone to 16%. Previously, something was said by Mr. Pafilis from the JRC, except that he did not end up in the same way. The youth of culture, masturbation, caricature. We don't want that kind of youth. Why, do you know what's going to get out? You've served in marketing and me and you, that hashish doesn't hurt, smoke the fearless. Pharmaceuticals, of course. Specific acres in Larissa that have only been investigated for the patients of Greece. For the "ELGO - PIMITRA" you say - you know very well - it is for certification, innovative ideas, development of policy on agricultural medicines and livestock, rescuing certain breeds. It's not to move innovative ideas in marketing for ponds on Indian cannabis. Another is the purpose of "ELGO - DIMITRA", as it has done with the flower of Darwin. I'm hanging up. What do we say? I filed it in the Minutes. As far as healing herbs are concerned, Greece's wealth is great. See the balance sheet with the six companies. Helmets. What can I say to my law school? Has he planted hashish, indian cannabis? Helmets, lambs, myrtles, oregano, beetroot, Darwin's flower, yolk, truffle, where are these? That's what we need to see. The Albanians are stealing them from us in the villages of Epirus. I told you this morning. The flower of Darwin called by Velopoulos, Mr. Kahrimanis, does it. That's 5,000 euros. It's 50,000 euros per kilo. Here's the treasure of Greece, gentlemen. We are the country of feta, olive oil, aromatic herbs. Greece is not the brand name in the Indian cannabis marketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u290	On behalf of the Communist Party, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Lambroulis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the draft law and our Secretary-General and our parliamentary representative are concerned, but also in the name of recommendation, we have mentioned it. Similarly, there are positions in the committees that preceded the plenary. The position of the Communist Party is clear, crystal clear, not only on the occasion of the debate in this particular bill, but already, if you want, and since 2018, not to say for 2013. But from 2018 onwards, it is clear, crystal clear, with specific positions and opinions. And on this, of course, there must be a controversy and not an attempt to disinform the JRC's positions, which has been regularly carried out for years, on the basis of this draft law. I won't stand, and I won't expand any further. But I would like to say, Mr President, on two amendments to their content, if you like, but also on the fact that we are not allowed to vote. In what sense do I say it? The vote's changing. We are called upon to vote on amendments as a whole, and there are articles in the amendments that we naturally disagree with others, but we agree with others. But since they do - and I say so - the articles that we are voting against, we have to vote against the whole thing. I shall be speaking about the two amendments, Mr President, but I will not take much time. In particular, in Amendment No 889 and in Amendment No 70, we are voting against the first article, which adapts the risk assessment criterion to the system of ratification. Of course, the evaluation tool is a scientific tool. The problem, in our opinion, or the question, if you wish, is how a scientific tool is used to control food production, but also to facilitate businesses, in the logic of the OECD, the World Bank and the other Imperialist organisations. That is to say, the profitability of businessmen. It is certain that this specific framework within which this scientific tool is required to operate in the evaluation criterion will also be used for further weakening and any inspection. Therefore, we do not disagree with the risk assessment tool, but with the framework in which its exploitation is integrated. That is why we are voting against this article in the amendment. We are going to go to Article 2 of the same amendment, which we are voting against. With what logic? The proposed regulation facilitates the provision of data to banks on business data that can be used for both planning, investment or lending purposes, offering a rapid market research and risk management for business loans, which there is no reason for each bank to have, for example, available to how many companies can be active or which partners participate in one business. We are now coming to the other two articles of this amendment, to 3 and 4. We would have no objection to voting on them if they were separate. We are talking about registering, Mr President, because we have become accustomed to accepting mud at the basis of the vote of this type of amendments in the past and we know that very well. These two articles would have been voted on if they were separate from the amendment. One article relates to duty-free, unrestricted, incompatible aid paid in the context of the contributory action for the supply of outdoor heating bodies, etc. The fourth article would have no objection to voting on it. It concerns duty-free, unexpected and incompatible aid for specific categories of activities affected by the coronary pandemic 'COVID-19'. So these two articles could be voted on. However, since, in our view, negative vote is dominated by the first two articles, we will vote 'in the name of' in the amendment. And the 'according' will unfortunately be reflected in both of the articles in which we would say 'yes'. I shall now proceed to the second amendment. I do not want to abuse time, but it forces us on this issue, which you know very well, and all the parliamentary groups know that for years we have said so, but there is no solution. It's not a solution. Isn't that right, Mr. President? That's right. I now come to the Ministerial Amendment No 895 and special number 71. There are six articles here, in most of them we are in negative position. However, there is Article 5 that refers to the Holocaust Museum, to an exchange of land between public, ERGOSE, etc., in order to rise. We are in favour of this. But look, in Article 1, we are against. In other words, what we are talking about is extending the deadlines for submitting objections to forest maps. We think it is a small amount of time that goes through this arrangement. At the same time, we want to highlight the enormous shortages that exist, particularly of staff, in forestry services. We are proposing an extension of at least one year, and even the recruitment of four hundred foresters to forestry services and a hundred foresters, so that they can respond to the work they are called upon to carry out on the basis of objections to forest maps. In Article 2 of the same amendment we are also against. When Mr Tagaras supported the amendment - on oil in Kavala - to the company - to our question he said that he did not know about this operation, since in March it was decided to finance it by more than 100 million, he did not know - or he did not - that the company, since it has been in the process of restructuring its programme, is, in fact, sacking or, anyway, blackmailing workers, by more than two thirds, accepting a reduction in wages and a contraction. But who pays? A number of conclusions are drawn here. On the one hand, it is financed with huge sums, with the guarantee of the Greek people, the Greek State and on the other who pays the bride? The employees with wage cuts, possibly redundancies, go by saying. Now see, within the restructuring programme that goes on or is going to be implemented, it is not ensured that even that safety scientific potential for extensive accidents in such enterprises with tragic potential results for the people of Kavala and the wider region if an accident occurs. Thus, even with the logic of the government that goes into the amendment to this article, by invoking a reduction in profits, which I am passing away, the company has, in a very short time, recovered with the first batch of sale of oil with the new prices. So, Mr. Tagaras knew all this very well because the Communist Party asked a timely question a week ago about Kavala oil and that's where he said it all. Here he tells us he doesn't know about the workers. We say: a clause for workers, no redundancies and continue to work with the same relationships that they have chosen, which are there, without wage cuts, etc. I continue in the same amendment to Article 3, which is the subject of contracts for the concession, exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Of course we would vote against this article if it were separate. We see Article 4 positively, which provides facilities for disbursements of sums for firefighting projects. I come again and repeat for Article 5, which concerns the Holocaust Museum of Greece, if it were separate, we would vote for it, we would say "Yes". Of course, for Article 6, the last one, which deals with the arrangements for the concession of motorways, is the 'percentage'. So the majority of the articles are against and we shall vote against the whole. But look, in Article 5, and I say it for the third time, our negative vote will be recorded. I say this in order to record the third and fourth and fifth times, so that it does not start at night or tomorrow the specula against the Communist Party of Greece. It does not make it possible either for the present government, like the previous government, to be able to vote to correspond to what we feel is right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u292	Mr Katrins has the floor on behalf of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u293	Thank you very much, Mr President. I listened with great interest to the Minister. I think the debate has taken place in a very good climate, a consensual climate, a climate that despite the extremist voices, in fact has contributed to the fact that yes, there is a need for investment in medicinal cannabis, yes, we must look at the best international practices and this must also lead to economic development, but - what we have not heard, Minister - to lead to real relief for those involved, who are the healers. Of course, it is not your responsibility now, but I was hoping for your previous position and your sensitivity because of this position, that you would make a special statement that yes, it will be the government's initiative in the next few months to see both the issue of patient card and how to prescribe and the issue with the National Cannabis Agency, which will include all of this and the facilitation in practice rather than a descriptive description of patients' access to cannabis medicinal products. In the end, I think, Mr President, that in addition to the investors concerned who may have turned their ears and their eyes to this meeting, the only ones who are following it and watching it with great anxiety are those patients who are waiting for treatment or relief from cannabis medicinal products. They're not waiting for us, you know, I told the committee. They are already ensuring that these products are supplied in a non-legislative way to find a solution to their problems. Now, Minister, I do not want to talk about what you have been talking about for 15 minutes. Because you said several times the name Papandreou - it is not about you personally - as many times as you try to say the name Papandreou to have fun with the impressions, not as Adonis Georgiadis, but as Vice-President of the New Democracy, in this Chamber you will be accompanied by the attitude of the New Democracy, and of SYRIZA, of course, the difficult period that George Papandreou was trying to get forced solutions to the rescue of the country. You, of course, had come to the right side of history, I must acknowledge it, but at the moment you are not representing yourself. You are representing a party, which, unfortunately, has then acted in an intimate manner. Now for the bill, we have not hesitated, Mr President, to say from the outset, from the outset, that we are positive at the outset and that is a step that has to be taken. We made some remarks. Unfortunately, not only have we not taken into account, but from what I have seen and from the change to the land of high productivity, we have taken a step further. I don't know who asked. We say our opinion. We say, the right will of the legislator not to be placed in a high-quality land is not necessary. We understand that some businesses are already in place and are likely to need an extension. What do you say? We're saying there's a limit to the extension of the plant to double the existing plant on high productivity land, but from now on. Now you come and what do you say? For six months from now, not only for those who have already applied, but for those who want for six months from now to go to high-quality land. So you are calling into question the will of Article 11, with which we agree with the transitional provisions. That is why we are not going to vote on Article 19 because it actually cancels what is right and we have said in the first place. We also said that for the mix of electricity it should be compulsory to set up an RES in these very energy-intensive investments. We haven't seen anything about it. We have also received the Minister's commitment, beyond the Deputy, to the Cannabis National Agency, a service which can be responsible for all procedures and also for the process of guaranteeing the rights of patients. I would like to end, Mr President, with two questions of principle. We have put it that in the bill at first we agree with the committee's first meeting. We cannot, however, participate in a process of parliamentary optimisation which requires a roll-call vote and which proposes that it be withdrawn. As we did yesterday, we will not be taking part in this process today. We are saying, however, directly - we have said so since the first meeting - that not only does it find us in agreement, but that further steps should be taken. So here, Mr President, this is what you are talking about, the Bureau - and the issue of the amendments - a mosaic that contains different articles, to which you agree, to some disagree, but you vote or 'yes' or 'no' or 'no'. You can't vote for an article in particular. We have already addressed the Conference of Presidents, and we have said that this must be corrected. There will be a specific proposal on this issue. Therefore, in amendments that have such content and we cannot have a single attitude, we will not be involved. One of these is Amendment No 895. It has, for example, a provision on forest maps which, although incomplete, is correct, has the provision for the Holocaust Museum, which, we do not discuss, should facilitate the process, especially on today's day and especially on the situation we have in our country and the two hundred years of freedom. This should go ahead. However, the provision of Article 2, and yes, we understand that the company has operational damages of 83 million, we understand the need for ENERGEAN to guarantee the State that there is a loan from a commercial bank, but we do not understand how the workers are left to God's mercy. When the State intervenes and participates in the board of directors and guarantees, how does it not ensure that all this is done, the protection of workers, as the State quite rightly does in matters of liquidity, grant, such as the repayable advance? As long as the government continues to bring amendments to which we cannot vote separately, we in this procedure, Mr President, will not be involved. I repeat - and I will end - that we shall also raise the issue at the Conference, to make a concrete improvement to the whole process. I think that the government should also see it, because there are no amendments to each bill, we are discussing ten or fifteen amendments. Let them come as separate articles, so that the parties can be placed and not be forced, like Mr Lambroulis, an article - to say what we would like to do, but when it comes to voting we have to vote 'yes', 'no' or 'no'. So this has to stop sometime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, too. The SYRIZA rapporteur has the floor - a Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, I do not have to speak. They've exceeded time in my protology. Our parliamentary representative will be placed on all matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u296	If you don't want to talk, then Mr. Mamulakis has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. I think that we owe two answers to Mr Georgiadis on a number of points raised by the Minister in his position and that need to be answered. In conclusion, I shall mention a few issues on the substance of the bill and I shall conclude. First of all, with regard to cubism, pirutet, ovarian mutation, transformation or commonly fuckingba, there is a warning that there is a difference from movement to movement, Minister. You have attempted to transfer and balance the two examples of the former government, SYRIZA, which has given a titanic struggle, so that the country can regulate the debt, get out of memorials, leave an important reserve that is truly the guarantee we lend as a country with exceptional interest rates - do not forget that - with a right move, after all, which you are doing with the acceptance of essentially the mistake of 2018 and the attitude that you have taken - not personally, but many of the then-place opposition officer - the SYRIZA Government with a retreat, innovative bill, such as this on drug cannabis. So I think that they are non-comparable sizes and it was unfortunate to try and approach on your part to balance or to "flat" that young people say everything in total. I think it makes a difference, I'd say. I would like to take this opportunity to say that you said that you are proud as Vice-President of the New Democracy for your party at the edge of the speech. I do not know how proud you are of this insurmountable lending that New Democracy has with unhelpful loans that does not show the image of a housewive party and, of course, gives a mistake - with due diligence - I say it - message to Greek society. Your total debt, Mr Georgiadis - not personally, your party - from the information we currently have, is EUR 317 million. In fact, you yourself in the past - because you mentioned the contrast with my dear colleague and friend Costas Zachariadis, of the past - have made genuine flagrant statements on the issue of debt that is consistent with the unreliability of a party when it cannot handle its own financial data and data. I will not expand any further. We'll have a chance, maybe again. I now come to the bill, on a useful aspect, which is good to know it, and it is unfortunately absent from the core and the provisions of the bill. I am referring to the fact that this particular culture of cannabis produces a number of waste. It's a tough waste. A lot of these are organic. We experience it and live it very much, especially in Crete, but also in the rest of the country, where the primary sector has a dynamic. And of course we also have complex biochemical waste due to the greenhouse effect. It is good as a provision - of course, now, it is too late, but at least in a later legislative, legislative intervention - that provision. Because we cannot talk about a circular economy, we cannot talk about growth unless we have anticipated the obvious. Because, after all, we're passive. We leave this place to our children. So I think that's very important. Mr. Zachariadis called you Nestor. You liked the phrase. You know, it comes from the new one, I come from it, I return it, so notorious. By Elijah as indicated. "I'm lying, I'm lying." I'm either lying or telling the truth. One of the two. His favorite phrase. Emblem and probably Nestor's favourite phrase. Why am I saying that? I asked Mr Tagaras before and Mr Papathanassis, the Deputy Minister, on the question of Amendment No 895 by 'ENERGEAN'. It is incomprehensible for the Greek state to provide - well-intentional aid - ninety-one hundred million euros, 90% of them, of course, with the guarantee of the Greek State and the others with bonds. But while Mr Tagaras knows - and he knows about it for a long time now - I was surprised that he was ignorant. It is incomprehensible to me for the State Secretary not to know the employment evidence of such an operation. While you know that, then, you continue to go ahead with this amendment. It's just things. Put a dissolution here, so that the company can conform to and maintain workers, especially at this difficult hub for the country and for them. Of course, the state will help and support, but it will keep this crucial staff support as a minimum guarantee. You said that three parties agreed today and that it is an important day. I think they're not three parties. They are two parties, plus a minister who shows that intention and, possibly, a small group of parliamentarians from a coalition party. I say this because that has shown all this painful and very interesting process last week. We had four committees on parliamentary work and no one appeared in the Chamber, no one was put in place except the rapporteur and you, of course, and the relevant ministers. This is really a paradox, which is rare in the Greek Parliament - perhaps it is a unique case - and it gives the feeling that you are actually dragging the weight, this atrocity, to bring it to fruition. This ambiguity in your group has prompted us once again - but it is not the only reason - to expose - within or outside of the importing - politically speaking, your prolongation to separate the day from the wheat. Yesterday, I think, we had the first leaks. We had Mrs. Kefaliannis, Mrs. Giannakou and other colleagues. But today, Mr President - and I conclude - we are actually calling for the roll-call vote to end this story. In May we conclude almost fifteen months of pandemic crisis. Accepted. It is not possible, however, for Parliament and for the Republic to remain operational even today when - beware - the whole of Europe's parliaments has opened up procedures and are well-functioning, operational and representative. The roll-call vote by roll-call votes through the parliamentary groups of the parties you understand that this is a complicated process and does not correspond to what the Rules of the Greek Parliament state explicitly as a roll-call vote and defines what we mean by 'nominal vote' rather than this image. So when everything has been opened, when you have opened everything - and good in this sense - and only the Greek Parliament and the universities have remained closed, I think we can no longer participate in this process. I must stress, Mr President, that this special anti-democratic approach should be lifted for us, that Parliament should finally open up, that the Greek citizens should know everything, so that we can move forward. So we say to you that we leave the procedure, given the refusal of the House to operate fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u298	Mr. Kelles has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u299	I think that both the committees and today in plenary since this morning we have had a detailed and thorough debate. Of course, the aim is to ensure that the cannabis marketed for euphorics is distinguished. No relationship has been made, and no one has ever talked about the legalisation of cannabis. Some extreme things have been heard that have nothing to do with reality. What I would like to stress is that the development bill clearly provides for the export of dry flowers and the creation of a single product to produce another product for the Greek market. This is purely developmental, investment and creates jobs in various specialties. Finally, the bill paves the way for the establishment of a respective national agency, as the Minister said. In conclusion, I should like to say this: it has been heard to the satisfaction that the New Democracy Members did not come to support the bill. I think that in today's procedure the majority was a New Democracy and then all the other parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u300	Minister, you have the floor to close this long-term procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u301	For the truth, eleven Members - I counted them - of the New Democracy spoke today, eight of the SYRIZA. So the Members of the New Democracy were also the majority of the speakers. As far as your departure is concerned, I should like to say two things in parliamentary terms. It has been announced by the President that all SYRIZA Members may vote in a natural presence. All that is not allowed is at the same time more than fifty, precisely for health reasons. If this doesn't help you now and you want to leave, I said it before. Let me not repeat myself. I'd like to collect everything I've heard to answer. As far as Mr Kriton Arsenis is concerned, I do not have much to say. I do not understand why you are voting against. Do you vote against why you wanted there to be no companies involved in the investment? Obviously, it is a general view of the market. The most criticism I have heard from you is not about the bill, it concerns the industrial cannabis, the legislative framework of which, incidentally, must indeed be modernised. To my fellow Member from the Greek Solution: Mr Plory's amendment, to which you referred, is not what you said. The one-year extension for the elections was not given by Mr Plory's amendment. It has been given by me to a previous law - a couple of months, a quarter may have passed, if I am not mistaken - and it has nothing to do with today's amendment. In other words, you have referred to an amendment which has not been tabled and which has not been tabled today. The reason why we had then extended one year was then mentioned in the debate. Mr Michalos had come from the chambers and explained why the chambers - they wanted the Chambers to be extended - and we found their request reasonable. Extension has been given in the past for much less important reasons during the pandemic. The pre-election period of the chambers is from March to June and a little in the autumn, but the elections are always in December. In other words, in the middle of quarantine and closed shops, there should be a pre-election period for the chambers. Mr. Booba, wait a minute. We said to make an opposition, but a little logical doesn't hurt. It was obvious that there had to be a pandemic prolongation in the chamber elections, because the chambers had more serious things to do and people to save their businesses. That's the answer. If you don't understand, I'm sorry. The amendment tabled by Mr Athanasios Ploiro, which I repeat on the record that it has been accepted, Mr President, only refers to the possibility for the majority of the board of directors to elect a new administrative committee during and as many times as it wants through the chamber's democratic procedures. Today it normally needed an increased majority of four fifths. There will be no need for four fifths, 50% plus 1% will be able to elect a new management committee. Why have we brought the amendment? Because there are chambers where they do not speak and risk closing because they cannot approve the budget. That is why it was the amendment. Let them come to an understanding of human beings and not have to bring such an amendment. For ‘LAMDA’. You said that I did not refer to 'LAMDA'. Although it's not about the bill, but since you're asking me for the third time, I'll answer you. Of course the transfer of shares has not been made, so the 331 million have not been paid, and it is certainly false that the "LAMDA" has not yet spent any euro on the Greek. LAMDA has paid several million euros for the demolitions that took place last summer until autumn throughout the Greek area. As we have said many times - the law laid down it - all the costs for the demolition, fence, etc. They have already borne the 'LAMDA'. It was many millions. The 331 million, which is the advance of 900 million, which is the price for the sale of the land, will be paid by the ‘LAMDA’, as provided for in the contract on the day that the transfer of the shares will be signed. When will the transfer of shares be signed? I believe that in four, five weeks from now, in the sense that the relevant arrangement from the Ministry of Finance will come next week, because the register has been recorded in the register, now the law that will pass the contribution to land has to be passed on to land. There's a bureaucratic process. What can we do now? The main loose ends have been solved. The agreement with MOHEGAN became, the agreement was made, the 'LAMDA' agreement - 'MOHEGAN', the agreement with MOHEGAN' goes to the Court of Auditors to be approved. When they are completed, they will be transferred. There are now very little details left. It will be completed in the next few weeks and the day the 331 million will be paid. Whatever Mr. Villard said about the investment, I really didn't understand. He said he's raised 1 billion loans and another 1 billion shareholders. He did well and he's packed. Will the "LAMDA" account give you how much money will he raise? Whatever he wants, let's gather. It's a private company. Does he pay you interest? The banks pay them. I forgot to say - I am sorry, I wanted to start with this, but unfortunately I forgot it - warmly condolences to the former colleague Fani Pallie - who lost her husband, as I read before. Mrs Fani Petrilia is a very personal friend of mine and a prominent member of our delegation, and I believe that she has been haunting Parliament for a number of years. I think I'm expressing all the condolences I'm saying now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u302	Mr Minister, about 'ENERGEAN' tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u303	It is an amendment from the Ministry of the Environment. He came and spoke to the competent Minister. You said to the Bureau that in any case a solution must be found to this issue with the amendments. The amendments we tabled this time are all in the short term.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u304	I didn't mention it being late.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u305	You said he could vote in writing. I'm sorry, I didn't get it. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u306	No, he didn't say about late. He said they could support some articles and some not.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u307	If what you mean is that you can vote on an article separately, that is a question of Rules of Procedure. It's not about the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u308	The government is concerned, Minister. Every department.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u309	Whoever you've done this job, you understand that. To get each amendment a separate DGXI report would need...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u310	Is the vote or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Lambroulis, listen to me. I've heard you all this time. I didn't interrupt anyone. Because you spoke of ancient Greeks who obviously like both of us: No trial, before you hear two words. Amphin, both of them. Let me talk, too, Mr. Bright. You are right as you say, but if you did the work we are doing - and that is why no government of either PASOK or SYRIZA has changed that - it is bureaucratically tidal in the process of breaking amendments in a separate amendment, because this would mean a separate report by the GDR and the Services working lately to break the amendment in an article. It's so simple. Now let's go to Mr. Catherine. I'm very wronged, my dear colleague, Mr. Katrin. First I talked to the patients and said that with Table D patients would be better able to find their medicine. So I said fine. Secondly, I also referred to Mr George Papandreou and to my speech before we honour the Cannabis National Agency where patients will also be involved and that the Agency could not come to this bill, because this bill is a change in the law on drugs and will come to a separate bill. So the two things you said in my speech already. I'm sorry, you've done a lot of wrongful work for me. Maybe you didn't notice. For waste, Mr. SYRIZA's colleague, there is provision in the 2018 bill. You have voted exactly how the waste will be collected. There's a prediction. If what you mean is that it should be updated, better regulation on the waste of the hemp industries, I do not know. It's a technical matter. If we have to do it. I have no objections. We considered that the law of SYRIZA is sufficient in this regard, in its predictions, but if it is not enough, we should discuss it. I'll put it in the Department of the Environment. The previous law of 2018, as regards waste management, has been passed by the Ministry of the Environment. That's what I mean. But if it isn't enough, we'd be happy to see it. I cannot answer that because unfortunately I have a great flaw, I cannot answer it. I'm suffering from some kind of incontinence. That's my real problem. Reference: Council Regulation (EEC) No 4064/89 on the common organization of I shall try to explain it to you in simple terms because populism seriously harms democracy. You say that New Democracy now owes 310-317 million. Next year it will be 417 and 517 et seq. It will be because interest and interest charged by banks in the New Democracy cannot be covered by New Democracy's revenue. It's impossible to cover them. The figures are unfortunately ruthless for the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u312	Will they be served or not? Last year you changed it. Not a cent?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u313	I didn't interrupt. You saw it. You've got his reputation out of me. I'm sitting alone and I'm listening to the poor guy. If you want to talk again, then I will recommend giving you the floor. I thank the House. Until morning, I'm sitting here. Let me explain to you what happened with the parties, the PASOK and the New Democracy, but also why SYRIZA escaped. Neither theme of management nor capacity was even the issue of smuggling. It was a matter of pure luck. Well, it's a short time. Watch why. The parties of the former big bloc, i.e. New Democracy and PASOK, before 2010 received state subsidies of around 30 million each. Until the bankruptcy of 2010. Thirty-four million each, 31 the other. Based on their electoral percentages, the grant was there somewhere. When the memorandum and bankruptcy took place, our political system then rightly decided to reduce the subsidy to the parties. For the New Democracy, 30 million became 4. Can you think of any organization, company, company, club, club of friends of music, sports club, sports club, party, that can suddenly lose 85% -90% of its revenue and at the same time not have a problem with the service of its lending? The mistake was made then. They should have reduced the subsidy to have cancelled the debts. Then we didn't. For what? Because there was no way to explain it to a people you really cut his money from everywhere. So it was very reasonable for the parties to pay far greater burden than what had happened. So the grant was reduced and the interest was now excessive to the annual grant received by the party. As far as the New Democracy is concerned, because I am a Vice-President and have dealt with this matter, it has taken a loan, a real money of 130 million. Do you know how much he actually paid two years ago? I don't know about now because I'm no longer dealing with this matter. By two years ago, he had paid 178 million. He had taken 130 million and paid 178 million. I'm sure also PASOK's numbers will be similar. Why does he owe more than 400 million? 'Cause the coats are coming in. Every time they enter, they write and raise the debt. At some point, we'll figure it out. Just as it is for everyone when they fall victim to the horrors, we do not say it is a loot and a crook, but we say "he got eaten by the horrors" obviously the same for the parties. The parties can't be anything different from everyone else. As far as the responsibilities are concerned, if you want to put the debts of the old so-called parties to all those who were members of these parties, voters or Members of these parties, I imagine that there would be too much weeping and an impoverishment in the SYRIZA parliamentary group or PASOK, which it also owes. So let it go. I'm not talking about you. You weren't a MP at the time. I'm talking about other colleagues. I'll catch up with you. If what we want to talk seriously is 'what we do with this', this kind of debate has not matured our political system. I don't want to expand. My views are well known and have been expressed in the past. I like sincereness in these matters in general, and I do not like sox-mesh. The reality is that the dramatic, sharp reduction in the grant of the parties would certainly lead to a failure to serve bank borrowing. Why doesn't SYRIZA have that problem? Because SYRIZA passed from the time before 2010, which had 3% -4%, so the amount he received was small since it was proportional to the votes. And while the electoral grant was reduced to the parties, it went to 31% -35% -37%. So, because of the increase in his votes ultimately the amount he receives is much more than he received before 2010. So it makes sense with more money SYRIZA serving his lending and the PASOK and the New Democracy with much less money not being able to serve their lending. This is not a terrible management capacity of SYRIZA or something else. I'm saying this so you don't play yourself. So I close with one last phrase, again from the ancient Greek. This is mainly my compass in politics. I had the idea of telling you in ancient Greek because before you spoke very nice and hostage. ‘Presidency of a man’. I'm absolutely a follower of the Blessed One. "The ruler of three seeeth meditation: men dominate, according to law he dominates, and is dominion." And you were Minister. You're not today. I wish you'd come back. No objections. I used to be a minister. Then I wasn't. Now I'm done again. Tomorrow I won't be again. That's temporary. Don't take our air brains because they're temporary for everyone. Even Stalin, after fifty years, fell when he left this futile world. So what's left? It's how you used your authority. I tried today to show you that my aim in politics is to do good. I am pleased that this effort was recognised by my political opponents. You have criticised, Mr President, the Members of the New Democracy, who certainly spoke on a similar basis more and will vote on the bill shortly when all the others are gone. Let me say a word to PASOK. Mr. Katrin, I'm being honest with you. You blame SYRIZA - in my opinion correctly - that he tabled a roll-call vote yesterday in a bill that votes against and leaves. I read before what Mr. Kegeroglu wrote. Today it tables a roll-call vote in a bill that votes for and leaves. Excuse me, why are you leaving?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u314	We're not leaving...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u315	Will you vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u316	We can't in this process...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u317	I'm sorry, I'm confused. Then I get it all back. Then it's all right. One last answer to Mr. Catarini, who says about the patients. Table D mainly for the patients we took him. Be careful what's the difference. Table C took a daily dose. And with Table D you can get a monthly dose. Imagine a patient who should go every day to take a new dose for his medicine if his prescription is for a month. With Table D we give him the opportunity to make better use of his medical prescription. So, of course, this was done for the patient. I wanted to say it before and I kept forgetting it. Thank you very much for the good debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u318	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset of the articles and amendments to the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: 'Production, export and disposal of finished hemp products of the kind Cannabis Sativa L content of more than 0,2% tetrahydrocannabinol'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote on the principle of the draft law by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. I will not read out the list of signatories, because due to the special circumstances, we believe there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for its submission. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 428A]] We are therefore adjourning the sitting for ten minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u319	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. Before the electronic roll-call vote takes place, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, National Defence, Education and Religion, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Shipping and Island Policy, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment and Home Affairs, as well as the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, have tabled a draft law on 21-5-2021: "State the contract for the transfer of rights through contributions in kind against an increase of equity between the Private Property Fund of State SA. and, on the other hand, the Hellenic Real Estate Management and Management Company S.A.’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be an electronic roll-call vote on the principle of the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u320	Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u321	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u322	I would ask that the Rules of Procedure be implemented and the names of the fifteen Members read, who have requested a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u323	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u324	Here either we apply the Rules of Procedure or we will not apply it. Identify the names of the fifteen Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u325	This is not my decision or any President-in-Office. This procedure is a decision of the Conference of Presidents, which has been taken since the pandemic principle. In other words, the names of the signatories are not given. I therefore ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u326	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes - fax colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure and the decision of the Conference of Presidents of Thursday, 24 September 2020, have been sent to the Bureau. These votes will be taken into account in the count, which will be followed and recorded in the Minutes. [[The letters referred to above are lodged in the minutes and are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u327	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. 191 MPs voted at the beginning of the bill. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against the start of the bill, i.e. 'OH', 33 MPs voted. "Communities" were voted by the parliamentarians. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. The result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u328	At the end of the vote with the electronic system, we are voting on the articles, amendments and the entire bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u329	The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes in order to be included in the official minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u330	After the vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment "Production, export and disposal of finished cannabis medicinal products of the species Cannabis Sativa L containing more than 0,2% tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and other provisions" was accepted by a majority, in principle, on articles and as a whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u331	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to ratify the minutes of this sitting in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u332	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-21-S1-commons.u333	With the consent of the House at 21.04 p.m., the sitting on Monday, May 24, 2021, at 12 noon, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
