ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 2-11-2021 authorisation, the minutes of its PRACTICAL session of Tuesday, November 2, 2021 as regards the adoption of the draft law as a whole: "Reforming and modernising the regulatory framework for the organisation and operation of the outdoor trade, arrangements for the exercise of leisure activities and simplifying the framework of activities in education, improvements to the logistics and other provisions of the Ministry of Development and Investment".]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Mr Stylianos - Ioannis Koutnajis informs the House that in the context of parliamentary scrutiny the timely questions to be debated today are as follows: Questions Nos 112/26-10-2021, 116/29-10-2021 and 124/1-11-2021 will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Zetta Makri. We will begin with the first 116/29-10-2021 current question of the first cycle of SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr.Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Twenty thousand Coronovirus cases in schools in a month and a half. To break the multitude of sections now." Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I find myself in the unpleasant position to ask you the timely question today, while outside there is a very morbid climate, not only because of the pandemic but also the way in which the government does not face the pandemic and lets an unprecedented health crisis develop. We heard the new measures yesterday. Unfortunately, the situation is pessimistic. Today, do not answer me, let us not speak as politicians, answer the citizens. Parents from the 9th Acharnon High School have sent a letter to you, the Ministry of Education, the Secretary General and have received no reply. They write: "Six thousand seven hundred cases were announced and only yesterday our daughter's section arrived at the twenty-seven students, after a merger of five sections in four and the gaps still exist." That's what happens at the 9th Acharon High School. Answer them. It's a cry of desperation and it comes from all over Greece. You proceeded to abbreviations - you recognized it here - and said that a small part of the sections only has more than twenty-five children. This little place is equivalent to two hundred thousand students and students, the percentages you mentioned. Why did you do that? Why are they stacked in rooms of twenty-five or up, in breach of EGE's instructions, asking for there to be a smaller number of departments? Why are children stacked instead of recruiting the necessary educational staff? I am sorry, but this does not show any empathy or a policy of the government to tackle pandemic and problems. Minister, tell us what the number of children who are COVID cases from the beginning of the year to now is. You don't mention them. You're hiding them. Why? There's got to be an entire excavation to figure out what's going on. And a week ago we were looking for it, we had twenty thousand coronary cases in schools in a month and a half. I heard Mrs. Linou say that 30% of the cases concern children and adolescents. The multitude of sections must now be broken. Now. Not twenty-five and twenty-seven sections. It can be done. It's a small number. After all, you are now merged and an image is created so negatively. Secondly, there is the important issue of traceability. We need to know what the relationship between the cases in the schools and the cases in the family is. How COVID goes from schools to society and from society to schools. It is a crucial issue that concerns intra-school transmission and, more generally, the spread of the virus to the families or the wider community. And, of course, we need to know how many possible hospitalizations, intubations or even deaths are due to this route, the correlation between intra-school and the rest of the morbidity in society. You tell us that there is no big problem in schools because they closed only eight sections in a total of seventy thousand. Are we kidding? When you have put the rule that there need to be cases in 50+1% of the children in one department to close? And you're saying they only close eight? Put the rule at 99% and no one closes. Is that how we talk? We cannot speak seriously with such arguments. Society is currently facing a fourth wave of pandemic. Schools are also in the problem. You do not take measures, and not even the minimum, which is - I repeat - to break the multitude sections, the ones that have twenty-five children or more. You don't. It is against your policy. I conclude, Minister, by saying this: I hear arguments that the average of the children is seventeen in each section. I mean, we're mocking society. We sum up the four children of an intimate area of twenty-seven, twenty-eight and twenty-nine Acharnes of Attica and make average terms. Don't give me those arguments. There really is a scream of agony. Answer the parents. They and others have sent a letter and you are cheating on giving an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u3	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. I, too, shall begin with my reply to the remarks made by the former Minister, Mr Philly, that the government is not taking steps to deal with the pandemic. I imagine that this unjust rigour you have shown here in this House, Mr Phile, will show it - and rightly so - at your insectual meetings and at the statements by your Chief and other officials who have been clearly against vaccination, at times they have been ambiguous and if they have not directly undermined it, they have in no way helped in the attempt to convince people to be vaccinated and tackle pandemic. I am returning to your question and I will tell you what I did last time in your question, namely, that in the total of seventy thousand hundred eighty-fifths of general education in public schools only 4,53% have over twenty-fifths and students. The figures in your question are those which, in reply to me, I explained last week, if I am not mistaken or ten days ago in any event. This 4.53% that you have been building up and you think it represents two hundred thousand students, I tell you that for your day it was twice. So there were four hundred thousand students and 7% touched the percentage of departments which had more students. I will not repeat exactly 2.62% for twenty-six students if they are fifty-seven for twenty-seven students. These are known, they have been tabled, I have answered the previous question you asked me. Continuing, I will specify the answers for which our Ministry has competence because for many, Mr Phile, it would be advisable for the Ministry of Health to reply. I shall challenge, in my reply, the efforts of the Ministry of Health, which may and in more detail give you answers on these issues. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like to take a little of your time because I have to give this to my colleague in detail. According to the written information and the information provided by our Ministry from the EGE, from September 1st to November 2nd, thirty-seven thousand seventy-eight years of age have been recorded. The epidemiological survey by EOH shows that only six thousand nine hundred and twenty-four cases, i.e. 18.3% of cases, are linked to educational activities. Throughout the school population, these six thousand nine hundred twenty-four cases are only 0.48%. They're numbers that you might deceive them, they might bother you, but I'm the one who records them exactly as we have been briefing our ministry from EOD. So we realise that there is a small number of cases in schools compared to the general population, and that is because, in cooperation with the experts, we are implementing the health protocol setting out how to prevent the dispersion of the virus in schools through self-diagnostic checks twice a week for students and two diagnostic tests for our teachers. However, all other measures provided for in detail and indicative are the use of a mask, the maintenance of the rooms, the transport of pupils and pupils, distances. In particular, for close contact with a case there is provision for the free use of a seven-week test, whether laboratory or self-diagnostic. Our government, Mr. Philie, invests great sums in preventing the spread of the virus through free school tests. Proof of reduced dispersion is that we currently have a one-digit number of sections in suspension, only 0.2% compared to the eighty-thousand and more than eighty-school divisions. There's millions of free tests in the kids. In August the tests amounted to 100 thousand daily, and now a million two thousand four to eighteen years of age perform self-diagnostic tests twice a week - that is, about two million, because there are also vaccinated children - and there are additional tests for those who come in contact with an established case. However, an indication of responsibility for our teachers and their care for individual and public health is the high rates of vaccination. Primary education teachers up to 31 October 2021 have achieved a vaccination rate of 83.9% and secondary school teachers of 88.34%. They don't include the nurses. It is also important to try to obtain immunity from vaccination and pupils. In the twelve to fourteen age group with at least one dose or a first-dose scheduled date is seventy-seven thousand sixteen, or 22.98%. In the 15- to seventeen-year age group, the figure is one hundred and twenty-four thousand seven hundred ninety-eight citizens, 37.84% - almost 38% - and in the eighteen-four-four-four-year-old group the figure is four hundred seventy-seven thousand nineteen-five, i.e. 61.57%. Internationally, the trend towards increased diagnostic control is also being observed and I will mention again - I have done so in your parliamentary control - the analysis by Professor Majorini, according to which all statistical models show that more effective transmission control policies in school halls are frequent diagnostic testing, the use of mask and control for symptoms, while less efficient is the reduction in the density of pupils and students. Mathematical models of the University of New York, to which the World Health Organization reports, calculated that in order to achieve 40% reduction in transmission in school rooms through a reduction in density, students and students should be divided into three sections and rotate every three days at school, i.e. to rotate every three days. On the contrary, through universal testing once a week - we have two - a 70% reduction in transmission is achieved. So, Mr President, it is easy to see that the repetitive self-diagnostic and diagnostic testing and compliance with health protocols contribute to preventing the spread of the virus and thus to the lively educational function of our schools, for which we all agree that it is desirable. Also, since Monday, November 1st, the edupass.gov.gr platform for public school units was launched, so that the director or director of each school unit can at any time confirm that they are only in it persons who fulfil the conditions of the physical presence in the lifelong education process. As far as the other issues are concerned, I told you at the outset - I will develop them more - that the EGE and the Ministry of Health have competence. There you must address your question to the competent authority. They will inform you more adequately of the way, means and methods they use for this purpose. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. I believe that both Mr Philly and the Minister's seconds are shorter, because you both doubled the time. Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, this is a very serious matter and I would also ask for a small, minimal tolerance. Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, I was expecting you to answer the parents. You avoided it. I say it again: you have avoided it. Parents speak on the basis of their children’s school experience. It's hundreds of them all over Greece. You're talking at percentages to hide the number problem. 4.53% of the sections of twenty-five or more mean a hundred thousand children and so many of the twenty-five sections mean two hundred thousand children. Two hundred thousand children are stacked like sardines in rooms with twenty-five and thirty squares. In this answer, and do not answer what was done on SYRIZA, because even if that were what you say, that the number of children in classes with twenty - five or more children was higher. Then there wouldn't be a pandemic. You're out of place and time. What are you comparing? The pandemic and the emergency status that exists throughout society and across the state with what happened then? Is that an answer? No, that's a confession of guilt. It means you've thrown white towel in front of the pandemic. You're not taking any measures. You leave our children at the mercy of the good will of parents and teachers. Madam Minister, the EAFRD protocol is clear. He's talking about the need to dilute the number of students in the departments. You raise the number of children in the department in the pandemic and you don't answer parents. Mr. Mayorkin's theory is unworthy of answer. It shows that some - I stand out and say'some' - who play a scientific role within the pandemic play a ruthless party role. That is why the proposal made by Mr. Tsipras by the Chief of Police Vice-Population to set up a committee of intergroup agreement by scientists is confirmed. With "Majorkines" we're going to fight the pandemic? With lies and with unworthy scientifics? I'm sorry. You rely on these elements that have no scientific documentation and you do not understand that today we have pandemic and not 2019, 2018, 2020. We have a pandemic, Mrs. Undersecretary. And you're telling me what happened when there were more than twenty-five? Look, we as SYRIZA have fought the battle in the first place with responsibility for dealing with the pandemic. We have proposed a cross-party agreement, including the Minister for Health of the Intergroup, the one you have changed, the same as the entire EGE after the Ministry of Health. So successful you considered them! We asked for there to be cross-party consultation. We have also just asked for a cross-party consultation on the expert committee. We are fighting for vaccination everywhere where we can, where we are surely left with the 'Petsos - me' media, what you are feeding. Everywhere we fight. It is a matter of social responsibility to fight for vaccination, for the second dose and for the third dose, because we are facing a major risk: when the half-yearly protection from the second dose ends, and the third dose cannot be increased the number of unvaccinated - vaccinated - take care of - a new category. We hear nothing from the government about this. We are asking for consultation. However, the first element of consensus is the strengthening of the ERC. The HR's falling apart. The image of Director COVID at the clinic in Larissa yesterday that collapsed in front of the cameras is symbolic. I have personal experience of how doctors feel in hospitals. People are falling apart. Two years they've been fighting helplessly. You didn't do the job at the right time. They had to be in the first place, as soon as the pandemic started. Now, unfortunately, it's too late to happen. We have problems. We all see it. You didn't give this battle because you thought the pandemic was a matter of two months. It's not two months old. He's three years old. It's a big deal. Mr President, I have heard about the traceability. Okay, I don't know if it's Mr. Mayorkin's inspiration and that. However, tracking does not hear and we do not see around us, and that is confirmed by your answer. There's no serious traceability. I asked you how many cases of intra-school COVID are associated with society, with the ICUs, with older people who have problems and even death. You didn't answer me. Mr President, the school needs peace. Calm down means let teachers do their job properly, give them all the means to be able to deal with problems and pandemic every day, which means first of all the dilution of the school population, but above all not to pursue them, not to intimidate them, not to send them to the courts. This is the policy you are following, the intimidation in schools and the full anesthetic towards society. Look, do not rejoice about what you have done on the issue of COVID because the COVID you are talking about reminds me of the well-known saying: The surgery has worked, but the patient died.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u7	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Philly, I will not follow you to acidity, because I will stay on what you said at the outset is a very serious issue and we should not face it politically. I cannot, however, remind you that in this Chamber, and beyond that, your Chief made a statement on vaccines that the Prime Minister did not exist and used, to excavate vaccines, your colleague in the government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks also made statements of undermining, both the vaccines and the procedure. So I think it would be a good thing if there were a little more modest or at least a little avoidance of this unfair and severe criticism. As far as the letter of the parents you returned to, it has not come to my possession. He was with the Secretary General. But I was informed by my partner that the five sections were four, because there were not a required number of nine students. This does not prejudice the Registrar's obligation to reply. But I say this to you because I respect parliamentary control, and I have to answer it to you. I shall not go back to what you say and to what you have said at the expense of Mr Majorkin and the Committee of Experts. I will only tell you that all doctors have to respect them, because they have shown that they have both scientific competence and sensitivity. We don't stand out for doctors in friendly or hostile parties. We listen to them, we respect them and - if I may say so - we obey them specifically in this case. So I'm telling you in my dentext, so that I don't have too much time and I'm rightly disturbing the President, that there is no criminal crowding of students in the ranks. We made more appointments and recruitments and I say, Mr. Friend, that no school hall was added to the days of the SYRIZA - Independent Greek rule. We made more appointments and recruitments to educational staff to meet the educational needs. The first phases of deputy recruitment began in August, almost all the needs were met and this is a dynamic situation, as you know very well, and new needs arise, for example from permits or from not taking a service. Indicatively, because the figures are important, regardless of whether they are disturbed and deceived - to mention the following: at the beginning of the school year, we had a thousand teachers' licenses and in one month we had multiples. They are maternity leave, sickness leave, sick leave, which is certainly the right of teachers, which we must shield. However, this leads to additional needs, and I am sure you do not mean that we need these rights that workers have won with struggles to deport them or reduce them. So meeting needs, Mr. Friend, is being treated by substitutes. This year, efforts are being made to improve the management of human resources, the educational staff in accordance with the existing framework, because in some schools there are more teachers than those corresponding to the number of pupils. Last week, I told you about the two and a half thousand recruits - teachers have already been on duty - and within the next week - on Tuesday, most likely, the next three thousand will be hired. These five and a half thousand recruits or will be recruited are in addition to the twelve thousand permanent teachers in general education, the four and a half thousand permanent appointments in special education and training for the first time in education. In total, the assignments exceed sixteen thousand. In addition, until today, for the school year 2021-2022, thirty-four thousand and fifty-five hirings of assistants of teachers and special assistants have already been carried out in primary and secondary general education and special education for full-time or reduced working hours. Of these, thirteen thousand seven hundred eighty-three relate to recruitment in special education and education. Of these, almost ten thousand were made under the special education support programme for the integration of disabled and special educational needs, always in the 2021-2022 school year. So we do what is necessary and continue to support lifelong education in our schools, in primary, in high school and in high school. As I told you, it is not our responsibility to track and update cases. It's the EGE's responsibility. I am sure you will also ask a question there. I cannot answer the whole of government policy, but only for the Ministry, because I will blame the efforts of the other ministries, as I said at the beginning. Every day the EGE provides evidence of the number of cases for all categories and they are obviously also the cases of students and students, since their confirmation as positive is registered and sent from the public structure to the Ministry of Health. As far as the post you're asking for on the website is concerned, I will not hide you, Mr. Phile, that I was surprised, because I know you're firmly against posts on the websites and even on the evaluation you think it categorizes schools. Now I want to inform you that the sections are being suspended. All the rest I think may be touching sensitive personal data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u9	And we thank the Minister. We continue with our second question under number 124/1-11-2021 of the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr.Ioannis Delis, with the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Congresses in secondary schools in the Western Athens Sector". Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. That is how fate brought this question to be debated after yesterday's black record of incidents, and it has its importance in the matter that I shall try to develop. I'm taking it from the beginning, Minister. We are in the third year of school year in the pandemic, a pandemic which has launched its biggest attack, its biggest wave, the fourth one, which we have been living in the last few days. How did the New Democracy Government manage the pandemic all this twenty-month? I think by the well-known method and in the light of that well-known Euro-Union principle - an anti-grassian principle - the well-known cost-benefit relationship. Based on this firm principle, the government managed the pandemic. So in education from the outset he has refused and has stubbornly refused the dilution of the school departments. I don't understand why dilution is imposed anywhere other than schools, that doesn't seem to me very scientific. It cannot stand up to common sense, after all. And your Government chose as a profitable solution and cheaply the so-called teletext education, but from which thousands of children were excluded, as it is known. Of course, this long-term closure of schools in which the government had and has, as you know, had very serious negative effects on children and their education and social and psychological levels and it would not be bad, I would say, it is imperative that the Ministry carry out a relevant scientific research into these gaps so that a programme can be drawn up to cover them. But this year's school year, Minister, your government's unpopular management of pandemic in education said to take it one step further. Although there are a whole lot of students, you know the percentages can hide very large absolute numbers and this is done with this 4% -5% that you said before about the large parts, despite the fact that there are hundreds in Attica, because the question refers to Attica, although it has, as you can see, general character - Attica is an example in relation to the rest of Greece, it is happening everywhere - and despite the fact that there are thousands throughout the country of vacancies even now that we are talking about, not only lacking basic measures - state prevention, health - and it was hidden behind the individual responsibility of rapid test and still hiding, but it did the worst thing your Government could do, Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It has decided to merge over a thousand schools in the country - if possible - by causing even greater and more dangerous confusing pandemics, that is, the one we should avoid now within school classes twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine children. And then we wonder why the cases are increasing. The image of the Secondary Education Department of Athens is characteristic and outrageous. By decision of the Ministry of Education, sections were merged in twenty-eight schools of Second-Second Division of Athens: in Agia Barbara in 1st, 3rd High School and 1st High School in Haidari in 3rd, 4th, 7th High School and 1st High School in Aegaleo, 4th, 5th High School and 1st, 3rd, 6th General High School, 1st High School in Kamaterou, 4th High School in St. Anargyro, in Ilio in 3rd and 9th High School, 5th, 6th and 7th High School in Petroupoli, 2nd High School and 5th General High School in Peristeri - the specific mention of these schools - 2nd, 3rd, 14th and 16th High School in Petroupoli and 6th High School. So in these twenty-eight schools we have extensive mergings of school departments and, of course, an increase - in the growth of the school population in the greater exacerbation of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u11	But finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u12	We therefore call on you, Minister, to withdraw all these mergers so that the students can be reduced by section. And of course, we ask you what you intend to do to fill all gaps in teachers and ensure all those necessary prevention measures to deal with the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u13	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. I say to you in advance, and I apologise for being tiring, repeating the same figures, but you realise that questions should be answered in detail and I cannot refer to previous answers from respect for colleagues who have a legitimate interest and who want to get their own separate explanations. So I say and repeat that in relation to the number of pupils and pupils per class in high school and in the first and second grades of general high school, the Joint Ministerial Decision No 129818/2018 applies and according to it, ladies and gentlemen, students and students in each class of high school and general high school can not exceed twenty-seven. In exceptional cases, by decision of the Director of Secondary Education concerned, an increase of 10% may be made. For the number of pupils and pupils in the third grade of high school, Article 116 of Law 4610/2019 applies, which provides that the number of pupils and pupils per section of both general education and guidance groups and C grades may not exceed twenty-five, the number of pupils and pupils per section of both general education and guidance groups and the third grade of secondary school and the number of pupils and pupils per section for the third grade of empirical school must not exceed twenty-two. In exceptional cases and pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2, an increase of 10% of the number of pupils and pupils may be made by decision of the relevant secondary school director. I will repeat - and I am tiring, I know - the figures of the twelve thousand permanent teachers appointed this year, of four and a half thousand from special education last year, of twenty-seven thousand seventy-three primary and secondary education recruits, including both two thousand five hundred and twelve recruits announced last week and having taken up a service. There were also five thousand seventy-seven recruitments of assistant teachers and assistant staff. The total is thirty - four thousand,000, fifty intakes so far. Next week there will be an additional three thousand recruits. The protocol number 137686/2021 has also been issued to cover operational vacant posts of members of specialist and auxiliary staff in primary and secondary education. In particular, four hundred nine alternate teachers have been recruited at Secondary Education III Athens. With regard to dealing with the spread of pandemic and ensuring the smooth functioning of school units, all provisions of the Joint Ministerial Decision 2021 on the reopening of all primary and secondary school units, special education and education for the school year 2021-2022, which includes measures to prevent the spread of the coronary during their operation, shall be respected. I say as briefly as possible that the measures provided for in this decision are the increased free self-diagnostic control of pupils and students, the rapid test in case there is close contact with a case, the mandatory use of a mask, the different breaks combined with the large percentage of the vaccination of teachers who exceed 82% and are even greater, it reaches 90%, if we sum up those who have been ill, but also the many pupils and pupils who are vaccinated daily. And all this, Mr Colleague, is making a decisive contribution to the smooth running of the educational process in school units. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u15	Thank you too, Minister. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u16	I listened carefully, Minister. You have avoided answering the substance of the question about mergers and I will start from the latter on the state of pandemic within schools. You will allow me to tell you that schools in our country are completely immune to prevention measures against this dangerous pandemic. For many and various reasons, which most of them are known and live, there are no school nurses who should be at every school, Minister. There is also insufficient cleaning, in that there should be even more cleaners and cleaners in schools, so that school spaces are continuously cleaned rather than at the end of school hours. There are no free personal hygiene agents. There are no periodicals, repeated tests, of course, from state services, from EGE, and not from the individual responsibility of students and their families. There is no one - believe me, and I think you are aware of it - to inform parents and students about the vaccination programme. And that should already be done. There is not much more - no integrated scientific monitoring of those already vaccinated. All this is missing. Since none of this was guaranteed, about a month after the opening of the schools, the Ministry of Education suddenly decides to merge departments to rationalise, as the Secretary-General of the Ministry told us, one day on a television channel, the distribution of staff. It can do this, but at the same time it will spread the coronary even further into schools and, of course, to the families of the students. In any case, we do not think that they are small parts of the seventeen, eighteen, nineteen or twenty students. Because such departments are merged in the schools I mentioned a moment ago. They are merged and formed on the basis of an unacceptablely high number of students, based on these laws and ministerial decisions you refer to. We have not told you that these provisions of the students' numeral limits are illegal, that these mergers are carried out on the basis of illegal provisions. We told you it was based on anti-grass rules. They should be withdrawn, because everyone knows that this cannot be done, especially at the moment. We have said about the negative effects of the measures. It is a decision in any case provoking, outrageous, because at the same time as these schools are merging, you know, Mr President, there are empty rooms, several empty rooms. What is lacking, of course, is to send teachers. We had the tele-education, we talked about it. In any case, on the basis of the Ministry's publications and communications, we know that in the first month and by the mid-October of October some twenty-five thousand pupils had suffered, that is, within one month, one quarter of those who had suffered all the previous nineteen months. And that says too much about how the virus is dispersed. In relation to the staff, of course the gaps are huge and exist, even when we speak. Educational permits are necessary. The cases of licensed teachers must certainly be met and the Ministry must cover these permits. But let me tell you that on the basis of the information you have given and the previous days, in reply to another question, but today, even these permits were not available at all, in theory always talking, we would still have had gaps. You confessed a little while ago when you said there would be more intakes, in an indirect way, of another three thousand. I don't know how many people they need, three, four, five, six. Well, they do. There's a lot of gaps. I will tell you, for example, that there, in the Municipality of Volbi, in the province, in the Region of Thessaloniki is too many gaps, there are hundreds of weekly hours missing from the region's high school and high school. A corresponding picture exists a little bit more throughout Greece. That is why, of course, this management, particularly in education, is also causing reactions, justified reactions and racing mobilisations and parents as it is today. Because in primary schools it is today, since in primary schools it is done and in secondary education it was done a few days ago at the Ministry. And it will continue, of course, because, as you can see, they cannot accept in these circumstances stacking their children in narrow areas and, let me say, inappropriate school rooms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. I, Mr. Colleague, will answer without putting an ideological mark on it. You have not avoided it either in protology or in dentistry. But you will allow me to tell you that it is a different thing to do in vitro policy and different to do in vivo policy. You said about the nurses. You have asked me about this and I have answered that the list has been exhausted, that we have tabled a special amendment so that we can take nurses from the general table of the AACC, and that will obviously not cover the gaps we will take further steps. There's no inertia of the Ministry. You told us about cleanliness. It is not the Ministry's responsibility, but I will be tempted, even though it is not parliamentary, to tell you that Mr Vorides has announced increased funds for cleanliness. I think that you are strict and unjustly strict in these matters. I will say again that I will not go back to the numbers of pupils in high school and general high school classes, because I will be tiring, but I will tell you that the average of schoolchildren and schoolchildren in our country is very low compared to the average of most European Union countries. The average is 19,94 students or students per department in secondary education and 17,41 in primary school, and so, Mr. Colleague, there is no settling of locusts, mountainous, island regions with large urban centres. So it's the meaning of this number, it's the reality. I've said it other times and I'm going to say it now, only 4.53% holds over twenty-five students and students. It used to be almost twice as much. As far as the proper management of human resources is concerned, this is actually done in secondary education and in Athens. Appropriate management of human resources has been carried out according to information from the information system ‘MYSCHOOL’. In no case shall the number of pupils - and the number of pupils in the resulting sections - exceed what is laid down in the legislation in force on a number of pupils in schools. To address the pandemic that you are making very much critical, and to ensure the smooth functioning of school units, all statistical models show that more effective school-based transmission control policies are frequent diagnostic control, mask use, control over symptoms and much less efficient reduction in student and student density. I will repeat what I have said, that there must be a 40% reduction, students divided into three sections, rotating every three days, while through universal testing once a week - you know that here is twice a week and increased in case of contact - a 70% reduction is achieved. With regard to student data and diagnoses, more were diagnosed because the tests are almost two million per week. In August there were a few hundred thousand, there were no other rules, children in contact with classmates, classmates, peers or older, without any rule, without any tracking. Now the parents have justifiable anxiety, we understand it. They are sure, however, that, in compliance with the protocols, there will also be proper traceability and proper treatment of dispersal. And always - not to forget to say this - vaccination is the only appropriate scientific solution. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u19	Thank you too, Minister. We move to the third with number 112-26-10-2021, a top-level question by the Senate MP of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boumbas to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "True injustice to the students of the Municipal School of Ammoulian Halkidiki". Mr. Booba, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President, good morning, Minister. In order not to repeat me on mergers of departments, because all programming is changed and a teacher, but above all on the family budget in respect of the departments, not to go back to numbers and mergers and in the light of the health crisis, I am talking about this particular issue because it is a particular case, as it is a primary school on the island. And I stress that, Minister, because you too are from the constituency of the beautiful Sporades and you know from islands. Since then, where - well the state - on remote islands, even with a student has a teacher, as we saw in Mathraki this year and in other islands - and well does - the island in question, which he says geographically, is a particular case. We are not talking now about five or ten or fifteen children, but we are talking about thirty children. We are talking about a refugee island of six hundred inhabitants, which is in an area with special characteristics, but also special difficulties. The primary school of three places to become two-seated realizes that it reduces livel, the level of students, but mainly because of the geographical area they live, that is, as it is an island, and psychologically, but also, in essence, feels that children, and so it is, go and become second-class children, that is to say, the downgrading of school. Because this is a school with three teaching rooms, with a library, with historical importance for the six hundred inhabitants and for the association of parents of beautiful Ammouliani. In fact, this school is a global model because a private company, and it has done well, put photovoltaics, that is, it also helps what we call a circular economy, green development and is a model municipal school in Greece, as in other regions, which are with solar energy. I give it as an example, because efforts are being made for this school, which is a jewel for the island, a historic refugee island, which has been brought by refugees from 1925 from the islands of Propondash, Gallim, Pasalimani, Scotia, and which has brought a vitality to the region across from the Cape of Athos to Mount Athos. I want you to see it because I know your sensitivity because it's an island. We have to keep our islands alive. The island must have the school it suits. Why be careful, English is not done, and it is compulsory to study on the basis of legislation. Sports activities - artistic activities are not carried out because there is no teacher in physical education. So do not further downgrade a school on an island, on the only inhabited island of central Macedonia. I want you to see it because the islands are in Greece right now and we need to support them, my Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Buba. The Minister has the floor, Mrs. Makri.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, not to mention the number of appointments and alternates again. No disrespect, but you were present in the Chamber, you heard them, I don't tire you. It is not true that we are asking for division mergers, because we do not have teachers, and the figures prove it. We neither avoid appointing nor avoid hiring. We're managing human resources properly. You will agree with me that taxpayers' money and education must be respected. There can be no more teachers or teachers where there is no need for fewer people where they are needed. In particular, for your question, at the Halkidiki Primary Education Department, where it belongs to the Municipal School of Ammouliani, three hundred alternate teachers have been recruited so far. The organicity of primary schools is determined by the proportion of 15 pupils to one teacher for the single, two-seat and three-seat schools and twenty-five students to one teacher for the rest of the schools. The Municipal School of Ammouliani is twofold and based on its organicity they are studying in this year's total of thirty students. More specifically in the first class three, in the second five, in the third six, in the fourth six, in the fifth and sixth five students. Four teachers from the IP 70 were posted this year, i.e. teachers, and started acting as a three-seater, with the full-day program in which an additional teacher is employed. The teacher, who was last placed on 28-9-2021, was moved on 12-10-2021 for the needs of the service, without breaking the proportion of an instructor per 15 students or students provided by the applicable provisions for the oligostic schools. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u23	Thank you too, Minister. Mr. Booba, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u24	I don't want to go to numbers. Not that it's a big difference. Look, it's different to talk about two teachers to twenty students, if we get it and numerically, and it's different to talk about two teachers to thirty students. These ten children may make a difference. I'm not saying you can override the law. But look, a proposal the parents' association has made, and I'm filing it here. I want you to think about it, work it out if that's possible. The entire day's school to be abolished in Ammouliani, people don't want it. They want three teachers, because each teacher has two classes and another one has three, there's a big difference. The whole day doesn't need the island so much. He needs the three teachers to share the classes. The subject of artistic and sporting activities and this to discuss, but even the language, which is compulsory, comes into a second fate. But, at least, let's keep the three teachers, let's leave the whole day's kindergarten that people don't want, and you can get in touch with the parents' club. Because once it is an island - I insist that you make an amendment, I do not know what you are going to do to the government - it is another island and the land of Greece, we have to understand it. There when the wind blows, my Minister, Mrs. Zetta Makri, it's going crazy. It may be relatively close to the land, but now we're talking about an island sanctuary, which was not of the Batopedio Monastery, granted in 1925. People were afraid to survive there. Only wild olives exist and fortunately there is tourism. It's isolated on the island. Although it's across Halkidiki, there's currents, there's winds, there's cold. What do I mean? When people, as islanders, are experiencing a problem, like the other islanders, when you have a school, which you start with three teachers and all day long, and suddenly one teacher, who is abducted by children and protests, and well do why they claim their fairness in education, in education, when they have made a programming and suddenly one teacher "hey" goes away - not to mention the teacher's budget, this is a personal issue, I now speak of thirty souls and six hundred inhabitants - suddenly their psychology changes. And if it were you and I, he starts a school, he does a sanctuary with three teachers, and he suddenly leaves. It is also an island, it feels isolated - particularly geographical attributes of the island - and people say "the whole day doesn't cover us because we can do so." They're not the services that leave this morning and go back to the night, like they're in the big city centers. "Leave us, however, the teacher." Thirty children sharing with three teachers, and the lesson to be made better, and the children not to lose their faces - because you know what happens in primary education and the interpersonal relationship of teacher and teacher with the child - and the residents have their moral high. Because he tells you, we're an island, but we're not forgotten by the state. That's what I want you to see, Minister. If the full day can be abolished and the third teacher will remain on the island of Ammouliani. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Boomba, too. Madam Minister, we are tired of you today, but you have the floor to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u26	You didn't tire me. It's my obligation and it's my pleasure to respond. My fellow Members know that I do so with great consistency and time, and I hope that my answers will be informative. I just want to say to you, Mr Buba, dear colleague, that the entire day's schools are conquered and we cannot easily ask for their abolition. We in our Ministry of Institutional Interlocutors, of course, are regional directors, but we do not ignore the importance of the demands and needs expressed by the parents and guardians' associations. But, I assure you, it is a conquest for the Greek educational system and an upgrade, it must exist rather than be abolished. In any case, I write down what you said. I shall therefore return to the organicity of the school frugalities, which is the proportion of fifteen pupils and pupils per teacher, and that, Mr Colleague, is also made for teaching and teaching purposes. Because modern teaching, without overlooking and undervaluing the binary relationship of a teacher and student, recognizes the potential role of the school team and tries to maximise the school's learning results, so that students do not view teaching as a process of offering and receiving information, but as an active process of building knowledge involving them all actively and interactively. These principles are implemented more effectively within the framework of small groups, at least four students, who through cooperation, complementing and confrontation, seek solutions to the problems they study, groups within the same class. So this cannot function within a school unit when there are separate classes with three, five or only six students. Group collaborative teaching leads to the improvement of school learning, social behavior and you will agree that they are both very important. The detailed curricula focuses on the cooperation of pupils in the school groups, in small groups. They estimate that collaborative learning is a key methodological approach to the achievement of the teaching objectives. For the posts of the recruited alternates, note: Each training department is responsible for the hierarchy of its needs and for determining the number of gaps, as indicated in the relevant rules for alternates. Our Ministry's constant intention is to cover all of the declared and confirmed by the regional directorates for training operational gaps by recruiting assistant teachers. Where appropriate, there may be administrative, financial and legal constraints, such as financial appropriations, limited by region, in the implementation of the co-financed programmes of the National Reference Strategy which make it difficult or delaying the coverage of all gaps. However, in the Ministry's intentions - the figures prove it - it is to fill all the gaps that exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u27	Thank you too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. We are going to take a five-minute break in order to aerate the Chamber so that we can move on to legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Single discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure: "Driving safely: Modernising the framework for training and examination of candidates for the granting of driving licences, provisions on the driving of disabled persons, arrangements for the classification and movement of vehicles of historical interest and other provisions on the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 21 October 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives should be involved, a first cycle involving a speaker from each Parliamentary Group and a 12-mile circle of speakers with the following ratio: Five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from Mera25. With teleconferencing service - webex platform - or also physically present, a 12-mile circle of speakers is also proposed with the same ratio as above. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u29	The House has agreed. The rapporteur, Mr Christos Kelles, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the field of road safety is particularly crucial for the country's social and economic life. Significant steps have been taken in our country over the past 15 years to raise public awareness and improve road infrastructure which has led to the reduction of deadly traffic and human losses in asphalt. According to EUROSTAT data between 2010 and 2020, deaths in our country have decreased by 54%, and in particular by 17% in the last two years with fifty-four deaths per million people. These are statistics which allow us to optimise the future. However, we still need a lot of work to improve our performance, because despite the reduction achieved, Greece is in the first eight of the states with the most deaths in the European Union. And, of course, in the long term, the aim of all governments must be to implement the vision zero, namely to eliminate deaths in asphalt. In this direction is the bill of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport that we are discussing and are being called upon to vote today, leaving aside party identities and controversies, because, as we have emphasised many times and through the Committee on Road Safety, not losing lives on the asphalt is a matter of national concern. The contents of the bill fully correspond to its title, i.e. 'Guide safely'. In a comprehensive way, the framework of tests to obtain a driving licence is being modernised and a new examination mechanism is being set up and comprehensive care is taken for the preparation and examination of disabled and special educational needs. In particular, as regards the theoretical examination: Firstly, it changes the content and promotes the expression of the candidates' critical thinking. Case studies are added to the questions of multiple choice and a bank is set up topics at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. The Bank will be updated periodically and will be able to present issues to it by the examiners, the supervisors, the legislators, i.e. all those involved in the regulation and the conduct of the examinations. Secondly, when candidates enter the rooms, they tighten the candidates' identity checks and intensify the detection of electronic devices, which could be used for copying. Thirdly, the practical examination is reorganised and the evaluation of the candidates is enhanced. This is a test structured in four stages, which will examine the knowledge of candidates for the operation of the vehicle, the ability to manoeuvre, the ability to drive on the road network and the ability to drive by navigator. Innovation is the introduction of cameras to vehicles and the audiovisual recording of the test, from which a record of up to six months will be kept in the competent unit of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure to check the quality of the examinations in the event of an accident on the part of the new driver. Here, Minister, refers to the bill that the instructor will be in the back seat. This is a good initiative. But there are strong reactions and I think you should see it again, because there are other problems of car safety, passenger safety with the instructor in the back seat. At the same time, the testing mechanism and the appropriate human resources change considerably. The test tank shall be extended as they are given the possibility of registering PICs or TEs of the general government following a public invitation and training, as well as PEs of civil servants certified by the EEAP as drivers. The supervision of the examinations and the investigation of complaints is undertaken by the officials of the Hellenic Republic who will be trained by the National Centre for Public Administration. In addition to the police, the college of supervisors may be appointed by staff of the Municipal Police, the Port Authority, the Hellenic Coast Guard, as well as staff from the National Transparency Authority. In addition, a system of remote surveillance is established and the Supervisory and Objections Committee is set up, consisting of the Head of Directorate of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and two supervisors, who will deal with objections and complaints. With regard to disabled people and special categories of candidates, the main element of the bill is that it promotes better service for people with motor problems by establishing private centres of assessment, competence and driving preparation, which will operate like the only state preparatory centre for people with kinetic problems. For those with special educational needs, special training is provided for in order to prepare for the examination and in case a special report is required from the relevant state structures, such as the Centres for Interdisciplinary Assessment, Advisory and Support, the so-called CEDASS or the CSTS or the CSTs. More specific predictions are introduced for the examinations of deaf and severe candidates, with texts in sign language, subtitles and videos, while specific examinations are provided for those who have not completed the compulsory education and who do not know the Greek language. The new driving licence framework makes better use of the possibilities of digital governance. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has set up an integrated information system for driving licences, through which all tests relating to driving licence or certificate of professional competence will be carried out, as well as the Registers of Examiners and Supervisors. The digital driving licence, which will have eighteen months' power and will allow its holders to move without bringing the printed form of the licence with them, is also being piloted. There is no doubt that these are developments that will radically change the examination procedures and the daily life of drivers, while at the same time improving the economy of administrative action. At the same time, we take the big step and enable the young seventeen years to become more active in the social and economic life of the place. Thus, seventeen-year-olds can take part in examinations and receive a temporary driving licence in category 2. Driving licences shall be issued until eighteen years and shall require driving within their region and accompanying a person of at least twenty-five years who has a driving licence of at least five years. Our young people deserve this opportunity, given that we have recognised the maturity of voting and in any case what is important for each driver is not whether he is on the road in the seventeen or eighteen years, but whether he has received sufficient road training and whether he has road education, as we have repeatedly pointed out at the meetings of the Special Standing Committee on Road Safety. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, the bill regulates the status of historic cars and a number of important issues for the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. With regard to historical cars, the scope for their traffic is defined as a whole. The age of designation of a vehicle as a historical vehicle shall be set at least thirty years and the transport and communications services of the regions shall be recognised as being solely responsible for granting licences and signs. Legal persons who have previously granted the licences will issue the certificates for the designation of vehicles as historical. The marketing authorisation for such vehicles is fixed at five years and at the same time, the fees, technical conditions and conditions for their registration are laid down. The other arrangements concern specific sectors and enhance the quality of the transport services provided. Firstly, the owners of licences for public and private buses when applying for retirement will be able not to submit their professional driving licences so that they can continue their employment as drivers, subject to the pensioners' employment scheme, since they have certainly not reached the age limit set at sixty-nine. However, for school bus drivers the age limit is set at sixty-five years. The owners of tourist cars are allowed to replace their vehicles with nine seat cars instead of eight. They regulate the transfer of cars for public use and deal with conflicting provisions, while resolving the problem of used Euro 5 cars or newer technology imported into the country but not put into circulation because of the pandemic. Includes provisions relating to the upgrading of the CBS in view of the implementation of the European Regulation 1370/2007. In particular, the payment of the 1% levy is abolished and a 5% levy is introduced on the total annual gross receipts. From this contribution 3% will be available for the renewal of the fleet and 2% for the maintenance and upgrading of maintenance agencies and stations. The operation of car stations in parking areas not provided for in Article 14(3) of the Presidential Decree of 1976 is envisaged, but provided that they fulfil specific conditions relating to the width of the ramp and have an approved building permit, a light signal and traffic control between the station levels, a technical report and drawings to document its safe operation. As far as CTEO audit staff are concerned, provision is made for the country's higher education institutions to become examination and training bodies. Provision is made for the control and compliance of railway undertakings and the infrastructure manager in relation to training train centres through the Regulatory Authority for Railways and defines the improperness of the OSE’s state funding, as well as the correct transposition of Union legislation on rail safety. The Athens Urban Transport Agency is given the opportunity to award contracts, by recourse to the negotiated procedure without publication for the supply, installation, operation and maintenance of equipment for the automatic computer system to ensure the safe operation of fixed track instruments, i.e. metro and tram. The provisions of the collective labour agreements for the entities of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure whose three-month extension has expired are hereby extended. In addition, the operation of special transport companies is extended for two years. Finally, an issue that concerns the fathers of Mount Athos is solved. Vehicles with signs from the Holy Community are allowed to move to the rest of the country in order to carry out checks on CTEOs and repairs of vehicles. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, this is a piece of legislation that promotes the modernisation of training and examinations for the acquisition of a driving licence. The evaluation of the candidate guides is better done and the mechanism of the examinations is reconstituted, promoting the upgrading of the candidates' education and examination procedures. Based on the planned regulations and technology assistance, road safety is strengthened, and at the same time critical issues relating to transport quality are resolved in our country. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to two amendments from those tabled by the Ministries of Education and Health. These areas are pillars of the social state, and especially in the current situation, where our country is facing the fourth wave of pandemic, and we must ensure that the respective services are provided to students and citizens. After the recruitment of our Government, after many years of special and general education with the amendment, with the general number 1117 and a special 26, care is taken to meet the educational needs of temporary substitutes and to extend the validity of measures to ensure the smooth and secure functioning of the educational process in the middle of a pandemic. Accordingly, the amendment under number 1118 and a special 27 regulates the reimbursement of the costs of the ESS and health regions and deals with the issues of providing services by private doctors to fill gaps in on-calls, the inter-parliamentary crossings of patients and the extension of the provisions on the compulsory provision of vaccinations to health. As you can see, it is a matter of regulating very serious issues, which also impose the direct action of the Government and thus, on our part, directly reflexive, in order to contribute as a National Representation to the adoption of the specific measures which strengthen the national health system towards pandemic. I therefore invite you all to support it and to vote in favour of the proposed provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u31	And we thank Mr. Kelles, and why he was quite accurate in time, as you see on the clock. I would ask that the Step be settled in order for SYRIZA's rapporteur - a Progressive Alliance, Christos Giannoulis. Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not a time when you don't want your day to start as it starts. Mr President, you will allow me, starting with my position, to convey the most popular and vulgar view that I have heard in the morning regarding the municipality and populism of the government through Mr Georgiadis to claim in relation to the measures announced yesterday in response to the pandemic that 'We cannot impose measures on places of worship because this is contrary to our metaphysical concerns and our history'. Yes, sir! That is to say, at the moment, a front is being created against pandemic and the lethal spread after more than one and a half years of inertia and inefficiency, but in the context of populism and micro-group perception we tell the invasive citizens - whom we call on them to be vaccinated in the most concrete and clear way in the last few months - that in the churches you can also go without control over supermarkets, while the rest will need control. At the same time, we close our eyes to a two-speed situation involving the operation of shops in relation to the multi-shops. About how friendly you are at the stores or the supermarkets yesterday we got a taste from Mr. Georgiadis' bill. I am afraid of this at the same time, Mr Karamanlis, I address you personally by telling you and I ask you, as far as the OSCE is concerned, that it has been added because of the news and another capacity in your ministry, Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Rural Development, in relation to the OSE wagons, but do not use the methods of terrorism and threats to workers to cure the inertia or image of rail transport today in Greece. It's not a good method. Here's me and Nikos Pappas that we went to. No one else is to blame. Tell your partners or our political friends not to threaten them because there will be more unpleasant surprises. I hear you're laughing. Because I do not recognize you as an equal interlocutor of dignity and seriousness, I will not address you personally. Stop pretending to be a successful minister in the most successful term and the most successful political work that is not produced.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u33	I'll answer you later!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u34	And because you're laughing, unfortunately, I didn't mean to do it. Today, we are talking about road safety under the emotional burden of two accidents which I will not seek governmental market responsibilities and the drama with which you have conquered power. I will give you, however, and present to the Minutes a front page of a historic Sunday newspaper of "MAKEDONIA". The black background is not my choice, it was the printer's choice, but it fits. The title is: "The chaos in the streets. Confusion of experts'. At the same time, on the same front page there is the superstitious: "He loses the battle with the coronary Thessaloniki". Update when exercised with dignity and honesty produces the true image. I put it in the Minutes and if you want to read it and keep laughing. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Giannoulis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned front page, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I said now that we are discussing under the weight of the two incidents and we are really honouring the memory and expressing the grief for the loss and the forty-two-year-old biker and the forty-seven-year-old manager of WOLT. It would be a substantial contribution to the memory of these people, but also to the memory of thousands of victims of road accidents, since we are discussing road safety and also in honor of the victims of road accidents which have suffered heavy disabilities to do two simple things that are equivalent to the two incidents. And that's not a gravel with the recipe Mitsotakis, it's a real sensitivity. In the case of the forty-two-year-old biker I heard yesterday a radio show on "SKAI" that said the very simple and related to "Great Walk" that evolved into a fiasco here in Athens with the tolerance of your Ministry, where the bike roads are cut by the need for buses to turn to the right at the University. It's a sample of how we're not what we're doing, but we think we're what we're talking about. And as regards the late worker forty-seven years who lost his life in Thessaloniki, there I would ask you to remind your colleague, Mr Hatzidakis, that, with the deterioration of his legislative work, the family of this worker is not entitled to what should be entitled to because he is not considered an accident at work because of his relationship with the company 'WOLT'. Thirdly and finally, before entering the bill, it is the amendment that we tabled for school meals. Stop pretending that there is no need to take measures and initiatives concerning ordinary people, vulnerable groups and workers. Greece is not only the elite of your political friends and political donors. With the management of the Ministry and because we have now become accustomed to the bills, your maniars - which you too support very much of a loyalty, of great importance and insistence - should be amendments with a small garnish of the bill. But what I'm saying to you has nothing to do with your own degenerative parliamentary maniac. It is about young children who, due to the manipulations of your government, have been without school meals for too many months and the amendment that you would like to make, a solution is given to relaunch this process. Now for the other amendments - mini bills by the Ministry of Education and Health - Arguably Argyi! Stop! In particular, Mrs Kerameou has now turned to art to legislate behind bills from other ministries. At some point, put an end to it. And in dentistry we'll be able to get into the other issues of the bill. Generally, however, the title: "Driving safely and modernising the education framework" does not fit. Unfortunately, I am not only talking about the lack of consultation that should have taken place, of the time that should have been given or of the work that should have been done. I'll get into the articles so I don't consume more time than predicted. But the bill does not guarantee what you describe as a central objective. You know in Article 13 that you are violating directives, Directive 2006/126, and you are introducing provisions that violate Community law and you should know that. It's for the parking test - that is, I'm entering the nucleus of the bill - for the Class B licence. I'm trying to say it briefly. Article 14(3) states that an examiner is defined by a decision of the competent authority, but you say in Article 3 that the competent authority of the Ministry of Driving Licences. So the department of your department will appoint the committees of the whole of Greece. It's another sample of centralization. Article 15 is the procedure for the examiner. The same day to be selected for exams after he found out he was paid, after he has to go to the service to pick up the camera which should be charged and be able to write for four hours. He'll check a series of procedures that probably add complications rather than solve the problem. They will be taken - you say - through the same procedure, that is to say, that the road network, the signs, etc. will be seen, but if, for example, at the time of the examination, a child passes through, technical measures will be taken that will not be recorded. Explain to me in simple sense how that will be done. So how will the process be recorded and when something that is not foreseen in relation to publicity and personal data recording occur, will you find a technical solution to overcome it? You say in Article 17 that any examiner who goes into two violations will come out of the exams. So there's gonna be a similar information system for us. There is, and we are waiting for an answer to that. The supervisors in Article 19 are all police officers. If the police are not enough, then you are resorting to the port and municipal police officers. Since he is not interested, he will not be one of them, that is to say they must show their interest or possibly in a region, for example, someone from Kavala should leave Ioannina and go to Ioannina. And in paragraph 4 there is another surprise. Please indicate that the supervisors are registered by decision of the Director-General for Transport. There is, of course, no link between the competent authority or the examinations. You'll probably imply General Road Safety Director. Perhaps the bill was written a little roughly, and so it would explain why there is no other explanation. I prophesy an answer because now the recipe you have been following has been known to blame your political opponents for two and a half years as the protagonist of "anti-SYRIZA" hysteria for lack of reading, lack of understanding of the articles and a series of such paradoxical answers. I say this prophetically, because I am sure that you will behave once again as a government and as a minister as being the product of the reshaping of the government of Alexis Tsipras. You are not government ministers Alexis Tsipras or government ministers SYRIZA. You are the Government, which since July 2019 has been responsible for the triple deception of citizens. You're two and a half years government. You are not ministers of the previous SYRIZA government, not that you could be or have been chosen, but stop acting as opposition to opposition to opposition. Generally speaking, the reading of the articles shows that most of the key issues in the bill come to the centralised model of the adoption of ministerial decisions and a presidential decree - if I am not mistaken - to determine the 'Imperial Minister' - and I am not personally referring to you, the same recipe is followed by other bills - to specify the essentials that should be the subject of or part of the bill. Also expected: "But you probably did the same as a government!" It is the debate on secondary legislation. I can assure you, on the basis of an investigation I have done, and I will repeat, I said it yesterday, I will repeat it every day - yes, they are not gratuitously responsible and the previous ones, the previous governments in this practice, you have just finished it. You're protagonists. And I want to remind you of something else that might not happen in this bill. I do not know what is going to happen with the amendments that have been introduced, especially for health and education. You have achieved something else, too, to be the champion of a government that has managed to rally against it against it in 90% of the laws you bring - the deregulations - that is, counterpopulation. I'm saying that's what it wants to do to achieve it. But you've done it! I'm continuing with the articles of the bill. Another example of curiosity is Article 25. There all of a sudden there is a small detail, which, from the details, seems either to be a sloppy one or simply the fact that this bill actually serves what is included in the other articles on direct assignment for cancellation machines. Because in the two years that you are in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, you have not managed to organise a competition with what is provided for by Law 4412. Invite the pandemic to negotiate directly or directly assign cancellation machines. What for? Why two and a half years has the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport not been able to set up a tender with absolute transparency, without paralyzing arguments on cancellation machines? And invoke the pandemic, which you have transformed into a tool mainly for customer relations and as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Don't remember the gloves in Serres and other examples. You are following this in this case too. In Article 25, then, you will tell us how the Greek control mechanisms can read and recognize a driving licence in the Chinese language. I ask that and I stop. I want to catch up with you, or I'll leave it for dentistry, what you're planning for the OSCE. And I understand why your importance of partners - I don't know if yours personally - is to have a climate of terrorism in the OSCE. Because the most characteristic picture right now in rail transport is not the mushrooms that grow in OSE wagons, it is not the only one. It's a comedian, laughing and crying. With Nikos Pappa, it is mainly anguish that causes us not a cheerful mood. It is the real picture on the Greek railway in relation to the routes, with the drivers, with the adequate staff, with the infrastructure, with the maintenance, in the mode of operation, with the efficiency and service of the passenger. That's where you score below zero! So there's no need for terrorism, for politicians or for threats. That is where we need work and we also need to reach a political agreement. Are you in favour of public transport? Are you in favour of modernising public transport for citizens, workers and those who use them, or is it just through these agencies that you want to do business?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u35	Who sold it, Mr. Giannoulis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u36	You from the first memorial!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u37	TRAINOSE? Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u38	Don't interrupt, leave the speaker alone! Mr. Giannoulis, continue!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u39	A little serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u40	What are you saying? Take it easy, Nicholas!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u41	You'll all take the floor and explain your positions. Mr. Giannoulis, continue!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u42	I do not know if it has been recorded in the Minutes, but the Minister of the Greek Government of Infrastructure and Transport, Kostas Karamanlis, addressed the former Minister of Digital Policy and Parliamentary Representative, saying "remove, Nicholas!". Here, then, the House, Kostakis, is not about such sluts. We didn't come here to spread the meter of the tsambouka or the phony that everyone's got. Be serious, as is the responsibility assigned to you by the most inactive Prime Minister - but he is Prime Minister - Mitsotakis. Not those puppies! And he's not a Prime Minister, Samaras, to justify you. I shall close, Mr President, by saying - and I apologise for having to repeat it from a microphone to put it in the Minutes - what is the spirit and the moral dimension of dialogue with the Government of New Democracy and Ministers like Mr Karamanlis? If he wants to be erased, our joy and the field of glory glorious. If he insists on them, they remain in the history of each other’s political style and behavior. At some point we have to agree on the general political direction. In closing my introductory speech, we are obliged, because of the degeneration that is happening both in content and in parliamentary practice, to vote against the bill. It also has positive provisions that we will vote for, but the vote will also be accompanied by a painful request - call: Be serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Giannoulis. He has the floor now, after the Stepma is settled, the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr Christos Gokas. Here, Mr Goka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me, going to Stepma first time after the great, painful and very premature loss of our President Fofi Gennimata, to express my deep grief but also to declare that she will always be in our minds as will her family. The light presence, the racing and the work of Phophysic Gennamata, its bravery, its morality and dignity in life and politics are a guide to our course, especially for all of us who were together in common struggles. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law which is now being put to the vote in plenary with the supervising: 'Guide safely' has individual positive or less adequate provisions, but has not exhausted the possibility of introducing a more comprehensive and modern framework, with radical changes, but also applicable to the overall procedure concerning driving licences and the overall issue of road safety. The need for improvements to the provisions of the bill was found. For our part, we have tabled a series of proposals in the discussions to obtain a draft law that will work and will be implemented in practice and satisfy the need to issue driving licences, after the school's general education and necessary traffic education, but also the specific acquisition of knowledge and at the end the certification of driving capacity, with complete integrity, reliability and transparency, but also without suffering for citizens. And for your part, there have been some changes. But we expect, Minister, further improvements. After two years of waiting and preparing until we reach the current legislation, having preceded the provisional legalisation with Law 4599/19, we returned to the former regime in order to address the tide in which the procedure had been found to grant vehicle driving licences with the hostage of fifty thousand candidates, due to the inappropriate law of the previous government of SYRIZA - ANEL. Today, at the end of the debate, the objective should be a realistic plan for driving licences to be implemented in practice and in line with the needs of credibility and transparency. However, today's debate, like the previous one in committee, has to deal with the thirty additional articles added to the draft law out of consultation concerning various provisions of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport but with no relevance to the main subject of the draft law. It also has to deal with the six, so far, amendments to the forty-seven articles as a whole, which are at least an additional bill, without any consultation and, of course, with the way in which each article is allowed to be voted on in each amendment, depending on whether or not one agrees and is a process which is repeated and contrary to the regulation. We have pointed this out and denounced too many times. It's got to end sometime. We also have the multitude of authorized provisions for the adoption of nineteen ministerial decisions. This means loopholes in legislating and a great chance of delaying the implementation of the law. Obviously, once again, we do not have a normal legalization, and I do not know what else may arise until the end of the meeting. And, of course, all of this does not allow us to have final legislation through full and comprehensive dialogue and composition. We agree, of course, on this need for training and examination of the candidate drivers for driving licences, that we have an integrated and operational framework, but how can we discuss so many unrelated issues in a very short time? I should also now like to point out that there is a major work that has been done over the years in the Committee on Road Safety, which operates in a climate of understanding on this serious issue, and I believe that this material must be the subject of a multi-project with the cooperation of various ministries. The Committee on Road Safety is ready to help it, since it is not a legislative committee itself. Ladies and gentlemen, road safety concerns infrastructure, in particular, on road networks, existing national networks before motorways, but also on provincial networks where people are often lost in serious traffic accidents. I would mention BOAK, the Patras Tower axis, but also many accidents occur in urban residential areas, such as in the last two days. Secondly, it concerns vehicles themselves, their quality and their poor maintenance, especially during the long economic crisis. Thirdly, it concerns the driver of the vehicle, the ability, knowledge, the infringements. Fourthly, it concerns general education, as I have said, traffic education and the specific training and evaluation of the driver's licence. The question of traffic education is an issue that has been highlighted several times at all meetings, especially for similar courses in schools, and it has been proposed to be in the courses under consideration. So that should be our concern. Thus, it could be safer and easier to implement the provision of Article 4 on the granting of our young people's temporary driving licence by completing the age of seventeen by means of a co-guide, which is one of the most important provisions of the draft law. Indeed, the new seventeen years can lead category II vehicles, as is already the case in other countries. That is why issues relating to traffic education are important and must be included in our educational system. We have also proposed to the committee other conditions, particularly as regards the passenger. You mentioned, Minister, that there will be differences of safety in ministerial decisions. We need to see the repetitive behaviour of the passenger, possibly, or predictions of violations of the COK for the passenger, which are mentioned in the driver, for example, not to be the drunk driver. It could also be established that the driver's foundation for two years with a similar point system. We have tabled proposals and opinions for many provisions and articles. For example: firstly, the update of the theoretical material and its enrichment to include new technological data, for example, automatic movement, electrical movement, etc. The theoretical examination was presented with an interesting proposal to register the procedure as well as with the theoretical courses. Secondly, for Article 12, we propose that the candidate driver undergo practical training after he has been checked and demonstrated the completion of the theoretical courses and without taking part in the relevant examinations, in order to avoid the malfunctioning of the driving schools, but also to avoid delaying the overall procedure for granting licences. Thirdly, at all the meetings we have referred to and proposed to change the provision of Article 14, which provides for the examiner's seat on the front seat and the instructor back. The reasons for this provision have been analysed, i.e. the trainer being in front of the passenger and next to the driver for lorries and buses. The examination takes place in the instructor's vehicle and with the current insurance cover, there is only one if the instructor is in the passenger's seat. We are all aware that there are good grounds for safety against the provocation of an accident, since it is possible that a wrong response by the examiner is possible, unlike the professional instructor who can intervene in timely and efficiently. Fourthly, it is planned to use a camera for the practical test procedure. With the adoption of the relevant decisions and circulars following the agreement of the Personal Data Protection Authority, we must ensure that we do not have the problems of the past again, which, by the law of the previous government, were, in particular, the cause in the waiting of the 50 000 candidates hostages of the relevant procedure. There is also one question: How and when will all these records be examined, in particular, a lack of staff in transport administrations? There's a matter. This material must also be used to achieve practical results. Fifthly, proposals have been submitted by the ESDC for both the training and initial training of examiners, as well as their periodic training and corresponding provisions for the Register of Supervisors. We have proposed and proposed that these proposals be accepted. Sixthly, the draft law establishes a register of examiners. We propose that they participate in this register as examiners and those who hold a licence trainer for candidates, without having the status of a civil servant and without any other employment relationship with the narrow or wider public sector, but also without being the owner of a driver school or working in driver training schools. They have the experience and potential for the examiner’s work. The body of examiners will be strengthened, given the large number of candidates waiting in many regions. We also propose that the total number of participants be increased to six per month by increasing the compensation to cover the gaps. It was heard at the hearing that there are many gaps in many regions. In the case of officials from other departments to be included in the Examination Register, there are also some conditions. For example, to be certain specific qualifications and categories of staff having the appropriate knowledge, experience or driving licences. It is true that there is a question of staffing services with new staff as there are many gaps, but there is also the need to create an integrated information system for use by citizens and officials who will be interconnected with other systems such as ADP, Police, KTEO, etc. Seventh, the Register of Supervisors shall be established to monitor the work of the examiners. In addition to the staff provided for - police officers, staff of the National Transparency Authority - we have proposed the expansion with categories and specialties of officials with relevant knowledge and experience that were examiners or have corresponding diplomas. We also propose that each region should have its own Register of Examinations and Supervisors, since it electronically communicates the public invitation of interest and the registers to the Ministry of Transport to decentralise. Eighthly, the penalties for examiners must be specified whether the penalties provided for after having been absent more than three times from the examinations include the anticipated blockade, which is, if I am not mistaken, up to four times. Otherwise it will be strict to apply this provision in practice. Ninth, the cost of the evil by 10 euros, from EUR 50 to EUR 60, but the paradox itself, too, comes to be added to a difficult economic situation. Since one should be subjected to an examination, and after a month if he is justified in his objection, while at the same time he can choose the procedure from the outset with 15 euros, this provision will have to be re-examined as a whole. For other provisions in the other chapters, we have proposed regular monitoring, medical and other tests, on the ability of lorry and bus drivers to ensure road safety for all. You have already announced the limits of sixty - seven years for drivers in trucks and sixty - five years for drivers in tourist buses carrying students. On the basis of Article 56, the question of extension for 15 years of the award of ferry services of EUR 50 million per year to TRAINOSE has not been answered. Of course, as a follow-up to the sale with only EUR 45 million in 2015 on the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the EUR 50 million a year since then - I recall that the EUR 300 million had been considered to be crumbs from the previous agreement - there are many questions in this regard. Article 61 concerning the provision of non-wage benefits to employees of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, such as OSH, OSH, OSH, who operate under the supervision of the Ministry of Attica, is a positive development for them but does not provide for the same for OSH workers. It is an issue that we have also tabled a question a few months ago. Provision should be made for the same reasons of equal treatment of workers in those bodies which carry out and carry out the same work. Nor can it - it is unacceptable - still be pending the collective labour agreement for workers in OSH and should be settled immediately. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like two minutes, Mr President, to make a reference to the amendments before I close. As I said, there are too many of the amendments with irrelevant issues between them. There are too many articles and, of course, there is no possibility of voting according to an article, and in this way the real will of each Member and every party is being distorted. We'll talk more thoroughly and then. However, on the basis of the relevant article of the amendment under number 1121 on the derogating from the contract for the award of services by the Attica CCT, I cannot once again refer to the aggregation phenomena in public transport, in a phase of the pandemic. Neither the delivery of buses with leasing has been completed nor everything that has been received because of the problem with the technical specifications and the decision of the Court of Auditors with closed windows. Minister, after almost two years of pandemic there are all these loose ends. I would like you to tell us on the basis of this amendment at what stage all this is, namely the supply of leasing and the purchase of buses which are much anticipated. Also, Article 2 of the amendment, number 1116, what does it mean for the fate of the Tower-Tsakona section in L.4215/2013? Not to mention again, of course, the unfortunate history of an axis that was launched for construction in 2013 as a single project, was divided into eight contractors from the previous government and we are still waiting for it to be started. You should provide us with information on the overall development of this whole project, as planned at the time - Patras - Tower - Chacona - and it should already be completed. With regard to Article 4 on the replacement of taxis based in the South Aegean Region, why is that only there? There are other regions and other islands such as Ionia, Corfu, Lefkada and other islands in the Aegean Sea with similar issues. The Health Ministry's amendment contains serious issues. Rapidly, although we are closing the second year with the pandemic, there are provisions showing that expenditure has been lost. Derogations continue, as is the case by way of derogation for school meals. Not everything can be justified in the name of the pandemic. Where are your declarations of transparency in public procurement? There are also issues with the disposal of surplus vaccines. What vaccines are left over and what companies show the failure in the vaccination program, and correspondingly an authorisation is provided for in the “IFET S.A.” for the purchase of vaccines. There are provisions that demonstrate the weakness of the ESS, such as the problematic procedure of heavyly suffering seams that their lives are in direct danger, particularly with the escort of inexperienced personnel. However, there are also positive provisions and it is necessary to move forward in order to operate the health system. Finally, we have tabled Amendment No 1114 from Members of the Change Movement and we invite you to accept it. It concerns the extension of the term of office of the ESDC boards until 31 July 2022 and not until 31 December 2021. I would also like to make one final reference to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance, which has literally come in such a way, which cannot be debated on such serious issues - roughly and without any treatment. Such a serious supervisory mechanism cannot be armed institutionally. We are talking about a committee that supervises a market with a turnover of more than EUR 16 billion for 2020, namely 9.5% of GDP and with a total gross revenue of EUR 1.6 billion. It cannot be consulted and justified to discuss such matters. We'll be more detailed next. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen - and I thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance - road safety is indeed a very big and serious issue for our country. The aim of the driver and driving factor should be a modern and integrated framework for the formation of school-based traffic education, a modern framework of theoretical and good practice education and a sound, clear and reliable system of vehicle driving licences. The main part of the bill was dialogue and proposals for improvements. It had to be wider, with more elements, to have a radically changed framework. But there is a need for corresponding institutions on these issues. For our part, an effort has been made to contribute positively. That's what we're looking forward to. We are waiting for our final position on the bill and until the end of the debate, the statement by the Ministry and the changes and improvements announced in committee. Of course, in the articles we do not agree, we will not vote. In the articles we agree, we shall vote. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u45	And we thank Mr. Goka. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Leonidas Stoltides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. And the draft law under discussion is another kind offer of capital and its state to remind us that in today's conditions road safety becomes a sacrifice on the altar of capitalist profit and interests of monopolistic groups. It could be thought that this is a joke, because there is no sign of intervention in the bill confirming its title. Let's see it a little more specifically. What constitutes road safety? In the human factor, in the circumstances, safe or not vehicles, safe roads or not. Is the bill improving any of this? Not only does it improve, but instead makes it dangerously worse on all sides. Firstly, as far as education is concerned, you say that you are going to fix the educational process by hitting corruption. But you were told by the institutions too. Thirty similar bills with the same objective, no effect, because apart from any changes that you do not touch, you do not take steps to break down the bridges on which corruption moves and maintains itself, and this cannot be described as weakness. On the other hand, you do not take into account workers' proposals to reduce corruption and opacity factors, such as not multiple parallel examination rooms, but a large with the necessary digital means, examiners should always be two with the necessary technical training and much more, such as public examination trails, decent working conditions for examiners and trainers, service staff, public and free education and training of examiners and drivers. Not only are you listening to them, but you already have them, like the Attica Region, working on Sundays to get the accumulated needs for exams, and you have the provision in this draft law for additional work to be paid with ceilings, from there and without pay. How did you forget the day off of the Hatzidakis law? You're obviously taking it a step further. Resuspend in another form the institutional framework that is finally perforated. So it remains the clear and anachronistic context in the matter of driving tests. It will continue to dominate the customer relationship and not the essential training to acquire the necessary skills which are tragically reflected in road accidents. It will continue to dominate the opacity with a deterioration in overall road behaviour and the maintenance of our country's first in the fatal accidents. Of course we reject this logic completely. But let's also take the theoretical scenario that education is perfect. You left a man with a clean mind? 1/3 based on ELSTAT's data is below the poverty line, hundreds of thousands of households under auction, hundreds of thousands of self-employed farmers with debts of extermination, over a million unemployed, 2/3 in youth, thousands of thousands of daily on the streets running the company's targets under the surge of redundancy, most of them exhausted, exhausted. The answer of the bourgeois state to all these issues as it appears in the bill is criminalisation, individual responsibility, exhausting carving, overall exclusion from the right to safe movement. As far as the second factor is concerned, is there any improvement here? None. And here's the worsening. Even new urban buses, school soaps - where this is confirmed - dangerous trucks without elementary maintenance, increasingly degraded popular income, leading to a deeper weakness for safe, well maintained vehicle. As far as the third factor on roads is concerned, we think it is well known to everyone that it did not exist for almost human beings to move on the national roads because of the huge cost of tolls. More and more are forced to move on the sideways that are no longer maintained, lack basic markings, their deterioration fills a trap of death. And it is not enough that you throw our people off the safe streets - a way of saying that, because other things have shown us the reality, with a little snow, with a little rain - you have also subsidised business groups of EUR 40 million for their mess - mercy! - because people don't go around. And you here to complete the crime against road safety, nowadays legislate on the increase in the age of vehicles such as taxis instead of financing their replacement with new and, at the same time, move on to inconceivable: Raise the age of school bus drivers in sixty-five years and for heavy and dangerous urban truck drivers in sixty-nine years. Words are circumcised. You are, of course, taking advantage of the fact that reinsurance laws provide hunger pensions and lead to the need for work to the deep ageing. As sixty-nine years old on the wheel, with vehicles badly loaded, badly maintained, because you do not do checks as required by the drivers, with exhaustive conditions, with a daily breach of working hours, despite digital tachographs, the corresponding, you know, working card that brought the anti-Fraud Teroturo that would bring in and control of working time. You iron out, gentlemen, our people and you will get the answer you need. And what did SYRIZA have to say about all this? How to find, he says, a way to run good tests to see the good health of drivers at that age. Since you didn't tell us that you would abolish the Katorugalou law when you're going to be a government again. And the rest of the parties 'I didn't see, I didn't hear, I didn't know about all of this. Sloppy for all this. Talk only where the instructor will sit, in front or behind, how much pixel the camera will have, whether the lens will be broadened and so on. But not to be unfair, the bill has more flowers than to be securely filled! You may have extorted it again to youth by driving to the seventeen, the same youth you collected to accept any work and insurance right, the youth you donated to pinch, the same one that you ruthlessly beat every time your head picks up and claims. But you can't hide. Once again, you put it in the back of the new robbery by the state's revenue business groups that resulted from the tax evacuation of their own parents, as well as the undoing of their income for the profits of a handful of exploiters. Why else is action on rail transport in line with the standards of the coastline? You are making use of the invention of the barren lines, subsidising again, listen - listen to the mess of the business group, as you have subsidised construction workers and also to the airlines. With the intervention for the private CBC and the contribution of 5% to the ticket for the renewal of the vehicle fleet and the renovation of their infrastructure, you are making profits without even costs for businesses, in fact, in a business activity which, in the logic of the profit rate, has drastically reduced the routes to the whole of our country's villages, leading them to devastatement. And it's worth it. This is what you understand that our people need this time, when they continue to die massively because of a lack of ITH and health, when half of Greece is burnt because you did not even give the crumbs in relation to what you are spreading, which are needed to prevent, when whole areas are drowned by a waterbath, because you do not want to give a franc for anti-milling projects. The interventions that break or abolish labour rights could certainly not be missing here, because somewhere they should be removed to pocket the business groups and you will be extended - and rightly so - by 31 December of the rules governing the collective labour agreements of the Ministry of Transport, the OSCE, the OSCE and the OSCE. But you do exclude OSH, who is the guardian of the Ministry. OSTH workers have received reductions of up to 40%. You exclude them, of course, in order to have more attack and greater losses. That objective is obvious. However, as you do not seem to be reviewing, we call on the workers to see clearly their real power which is huge that, by removing the factors that keep them inactivity, can lead them to victory by signing a collective labour contract with increases. The experience of the victories of seafarers, builders and workers in "e-food" can be used in this. And here's the Hatzidakis abortion that can't wait! With a new amendment and, with a recent pretext, the pandemic for which you have opened up all the doors to hit our people, you have, and rightly so, given the possibility for clubs and unions to extend their term of office under the burden of the difficulty of moving into mass collective procedures. That's not what you're worried about. On the contrary, you want to avoid it like the hell of the loin, because where they exist your policy has been rejected and the struggle to overthrow it is being organised. You are the one who wants to depopulate, abolish collective procedures and decisions. That is why you provide the opportunity for the electronic assemblies, for workers to sit on their "fucks" in order to push away from the decision-making button in order to avoid the people of employers and the government from the labour movement, first the majority of GSE, not only does it not seem how deeply devoid of the workers' consciousness, but it seems that they are already being strengthened to understand better chairs in social well-being, the suppression of unions and workers who spoil the "soup" of consensus. But you know, whatever they do won't manage to drag the labour movement into their swamp. Hope is in any case found in the workers and unions that are not subject to subjection, do not deposit the weapons and continue to organise the struggle to overthrow the Hatzidakis Act and to overthrow anti-population policy as a whole. We will, of course, talk about the other amendments that are taking place in the 'treno' area, not one time to get a hold of them, but that is why the JRC is here to inform our people. To sum up, the laws of the capitalist way of production run counter to the needs of workers for cheap and safe movements. The need for capital to bleed out all the working time of workers, the logic of the cost of benefit is the underlying cause that breaks down, and road safety and safety at work, is the reason behind all modern problems. And won by this policy - you have proved it in all ways and in this draft law - is capital, domestic and foreign. The Communist Party of Greece today calls on the workers and the people to stand up, to fight against the designs of the bourgeoisie and of all the governments that are worsening their lives. On the other hand, there is the solution proposed by the Communist Party of Greece and calls on the people to fight for it. The scientific central planning of transport with the appropriate choice of means of movement, the development of a dense public transport network, the appropriate location of units and places of residence, the abolition of freight operations on roads, the safeguarding of cheap, safe and adequate cars on workers and the people, the possibility of even stopping activities on the basis of social well-being whenever necessary are the pillars that can secure cheap, safe, reliable, universal and rapid transport with the safety and well-being of workers and the people to be the only objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u47	We also thank you, but you have had the opportunity, unless you are ready, because at first, as I have said, the debate is uniform in principle, in terms of articles and amendments. If you're not ready, you'll get the floor in your dentistry again. I remind everyone to be aware. Now is the reason for the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. At least with the'storm' of amendments, you know, we can talk about what we want from a parliamentary step and you cannot tell us as the Bureau that we are out of the question, because there are so many amendments that catch the whole range of events, from medical matters up to a little bit about the bill we are discussing today. So we feel we can talk about what we want and go to the bill in a little bit. Minister, Mr Karamanlis, I would not be at all satisfied, proud, if in my bill as Minister, Mr. Ploris and the Ministry of Health brought me this disgrace today. Because road safety is a good thing and we're very sensitive about this, but, you know, outside the Greek Parliament at the time we're talking about there are people who were totally hypocritically dating the balconies a year ago and you applauded them, and now you have them on a job suspension, you've thrown them away in the trash, their families are hungry, you've taken them out of unemployment, and that's all for a whim and nothing more. Because they could be considered twice and three times a week and those who are healthy to provide their services in a rotten and demolished national health system. In a battle, in a war that no one is spared, you for a whim and nothing more - not to say the expression that Voula Patulidou said, for why you do not, for such a thing, and nothing more - you have thrown them on the road. And you are bringing an amendment today and it has Article 10. If I were never Minister, I would never accept to a bill of mine on road safety this abortion brought here by Mr. Ploris today. But we said, he's the man of special missions. He came in to serve a certain purpose. And it says in Article 10 that an extension of compulsory vaccination is granted to doctors until the end of the year and an extension, if you want, of the work of these people until they die of hunger. You'll never calm down. They must die, be rid of them and their families, live in poverty, in poverty, until you bend them. You remind me of some methods of interrogation until you break, until you break and confess, repent or sign or be vaccinated. That's what your methods remind me of. It's really embarrassing. It is a disgrace and the measures you announced yesterday, fascist, authoritarian. That's how the government moves. So what did you do? So what did you do? Two years with very hard and in meters and long lockdown, two years endless mini lockdown by region, local. Here you closed, you did two years of restrictive measures, two years of alchemy, two years of experiments, two years of different ideas that didn't come out: sew masks, cut masks, cloth, regular, butchers, friends, well-known print, wear, two, three, five, ten, closed shops, with music, without coffee, without ice, and not the straw so sit from here, put the stove on. Such situations. Prohibition on traffic and the main, devastation of the economy. Two years you've kneeled the country. 41.7 billion euros was borrowed in our homeland for your own losers, and yesterday we had a record of cases, six thousand, he says, seven hundred cases. Yes, sir. Aren't you telling me how many tests were carried out yesterday? Four hundred and twenty thousand tests were carried out yesterday. What kind of premiere is that? Would Plearis be announcing the measures and doing half a million tests? Positiveness is 1.5%. Four hundred twenty thousand tests! So the result of your good policy is yesterday's four hundred and fifty-equipped, with a growing trend, with the EHS falling apart, with the IHS filling up, no doctors, but having them on the road flying out of people right now, because we are avengers. You're vengeful. So if this is not a frenzy failure, what is a frenzy failure? The Ministry is out, the committees are out, everything has been ripped out, a confession of defeat and two - three things we tell you don't do. Remove the impunity. What are you gonna do now? We're gonna move on, right? New measures yesterday, he won't be able to go shopping, he won't be able to do anything. It will give 30 euros a week, 80-100-120 euros a month only for rapid tests. What's this? What punishment is that? You treat people like they're prisoners. You treat people like it's not what, until they confess and repent. They refer to other regimes what you do, darkly, are not good things. And let's go to another amendment. Six amendments to the whole. School meals. I will not stay on the part of direct assignments, derogating procedures and others, which are very important. But I'm staying at school lunches, Minister, because you're also a father to young children. And I will stay in this investigation and the shocks of EUROSTAT - not of the Greek Solution, not of any company, but of EUROSTAT - which says that one in three Greeks is hungry, Mr Karamanlis. And I address you who bear a political heavyty name from the Genarch of the New Democracy of Constantine Karamanlis. But then you had another orientation as a party. Then you were a party of social liberalism and now you have become an extremist neoliberal party, tough, vengeful and far from the citizen. One in three Greeks is hungry, Mr. Karamanlis. Five hundred thousand kids don't have to eat. EUROSTAT, it is not a populism of the Greek solution. EUROSTAT, do you know what he's saying? A total of five hundred thousand Greeks live below the poverty line. What does that mean? That there is not enough food to be filled, they are not heated in winter as they should, they do not dress as they should, they do not have drugs when they get sick or do not have health benefits they should have in childhood. What are we doing here? When one in three Greeks lives this drama, we have all failed, even us who are a two and a half-year-old party alone and while all the responsibility is yours, of the New Democracy, of the PASOK - KINAL - as you want to say - and of SYRIZA for the part that accounts for the five years. We failed! We should be ashamed of ourselves. We look into our children's eyes and you school me and instead of the Prime Minister being here and finding a solution at all costs for this situation, it is with Greta Tunberg to save the environment in Glasgow. His fury or great, what to do with the lignites, how to shut them down, how to bring green energy to the environment. That is the notion of the Prime Minister. Instead of seeing his people, his citizens, his hungry nation, who has no job, is poor, has no pensions, has nothing, goes with Greta hand - hand to save the environment in Glasgow. This is the situation, unfortunately. This is the situation, just as I say it, Minister. With soul pain, we really do. But that's the reality. That's the reality. His only point is to close the lignites. Energy crisis: What are you doing about it? What are you doing about the energy crisis? Nothing. Do you close the lignites? Is that a solution? We've been yelling for two years now. You're going to open them up now. Greece produces 0.3% of the greenhouse gases worldwide. What kind of premura is this, though, for Greece - I mean, like a geographical area - what damage does Greece do to the environment, when 52% is just China and America? Put Russia in another 25% and the European Union 25%. And we start all green growth and the RES from Greece, Greece, 0.3%. We'll save the environment! But to close the lignites, send two and a half thousand employees to the lignite mines, another two and a half thousand truck drivers, working and transporting, and another chain of people. You don't care. You're far from society, unfortunately. You should, at least politically or even human, be ashamed of all this. Because that's the situation. I'm really embarrassed. This particularly with EUROSTAT was a fist in the stomach, a fist in the stomach. We failed. And you failed. Let's go to the bill now. All right, and in the Committee on Road Safety we have tabled a number of proposals too many times - they are also the chairman of the committee here, and I am pleased that they are also the rapporteur - and important interventions that we need to make to correct the situation. You know, road safety is the purpose, it's the point. Because it's a matter of life, it's not a matter of welfare or good time. It's a matter of life, it's very important. Our country is experiencing and paying a very heavy blood tax on the streets, many thousands of wronged souls, young people mainly with our fellow people. The numbers are relentless. Greek Statistical Authority: In 2019 we had ten thousand seven hundred twelve wheels, six hundred eighty eight people lost their lives. 68.3% concerned drivers, 10.6% passengers transported, 21% pedestrians and most of them happen in Attica. In 2018 we mourned seven hundred souls, with the corresponding numbers. And you said and present - with change, with alpha sons, whatever you want - reductions in numbers in 2020 and 2021. So listen. Because we're talking about human lives, you don't believe that. Because you know very well that in 2020 and 2021, there were the lockdowns, people weren't around, we were all homes. So the number of people who came out, who were driving, who unfortunately had accidents or accidents, was reduced. So they're not representative of numbers. Again, and in 2020, road deaths in the country, despite the fact that they were not going too much, were five hundred seventy nine fellow citizens. Unfortunately, it's this time of daytime. There is a discussion about this when we experienced two sad road accidents in Thessaloniki with the unfortunate distributor and the unfortunate marathon street biker. Two young people left our lives, and were unfortunate, because on their way, people were obviously found who should never get a wheel. It is tragic that our country is far from the first in Europe in the deaths of cyclists in traffic, the first in Europe, and I will put it in the Minutes at the end of my speech, all together. Mr President of the committee, we are the first in Europe to die in two cycles. Very sad. And because what's negative is, unfortunately, this country has a place on the bottom, whether it's first, second, or third, the medal has it in the pocket, there's no way. On the negative. Greece is above the European average in deaths per million inhabitants. With figures of 2019, we are in the eighth place in Europe with sixty-five deaths in the asphalt per million "road traffic fundamentalities in the EU". I will also present them at the end of the Minutes. You'll see. Look at them. That means we're doing something wrong or we're probably doing nothing right. There's nothing we can do right. This is not a question of political confrontation, where we have now gone - on the issue of the draft law, I mean road safety, the rest is casus belli - we should all bend to see what is going on. We're doing something wrong. What is really important is that laws should be passed - that one more law today - that laws should provide for a number of things, but that they should not be the most important one of them. What? The road network, bicycles, the necessary infrastructure, the necessary facilities. So what are our problems? What kind of trouble are we having, guys, let's take a look at them. What are our problems, we ask. Bad driving behaviour, actually. Bad or poorly maintained road network and often mislabelled, signs are hidden inside branches. Problems in many cases. The lack of controls, which maintains all these problems, is the lack of controls. As far as road behaviour is concerned, it is clear that so far we have done little as a country. In Scandinavia - and we have said so many times to the relevant committees - and in Central Europe traffic education has been part of primary and secondary education for many decades. Mr President, the then Deputy Minister for Education, Mr Zacharakis, had come. What about class? We've been talking, we've gathered, wishing, we've all done it. And we've all done it. How good, we made a handshake, we took a picture, we left. Nine, twelve to fourteen months have passed since. Nothing. Where's the lesson? Get in! But be careful: with shot and targeting, not put one hour on the road traffic clock and let the children do what they want and play in the classroom. Not like that. These kids must be the generation that's coming to learn how to drive. It's very important. We also need to be the only country who wants to go and dig a road anyone wants. There goes the other guy, he opens a hole, you want PPC wires, you want OTE's phone, you want gas, you want something he shut up, some shaft, there goes whoever wants and digs, he does his job, he throws a patch over it, and he gets up and goes away. And then the earth opens and it swallows all this and we wonder later. We saw what happened with rainfall a few days ago, they opened holes in the street, guys. There were holes in the road from the rain, cars falling in, trouble in cars inside. Has anyone wondered why this is happening? We saw buses sinking literally in the streets, passengers in danger. Is this thing going on in a civilized country? Not even in third worlds do these, sink the bus and drown the passengers. These things can't be done. What can't we talk about now? With all that I am describing, I ask a question: will this bill, at the end of the day, help to eliminate these problems? That's what I'm asking. It does not go back to the auditor, either in front or in front of the young man seventeen years or eighteen years old, if he does not have the infrastructure and proper mentality, the driving sensation and education, be it seventeen or eighteen years old, he will be beaten to give examinations in terms of guiding attitudes and education. That's what I mean, as long as we don't change. That's what I mean. I will not talk about road checks if you check the implementation of the Road Traffic Code. Does every driver feel that if he violates the laws and rules, will anyone see him? Oh, no! He'll get away with it. He doesn't feel it. He doesn't feel any of this. And anyway, to close, you say that you will fight corruption in driving diplomas, you change the rules in education. As far as the candidates are concerned - I will tell you, for people to hear this more - the circuits with the fake driver's licenses have too many tentacles. I'm not saying any news today. Candidate drivers and successors, without giving tests, "made in Greece". Price list of services with turfs in any case after the crisis, ‘made in Greece’. Car license, driver's license, bus driver's license, everything, with your license to come home, courier. The license's here, sir. How much do you want? How much do you give? Take it. Get your license. What can we say now? I mean, I don't know if this can be saved. I think you want to say the alphabet and start with the omega. I have this feeling today, unfortunately, Minister. Because you are also the Minister responsible - and I am actually closing with that, Mr President - I will not say what is going on in buses. It has various provisions in the OSCE and OSCE transport bill. Let us note that public transport needs to be improved and strengthened. You can see what a mess is in Athens where most of you live. Come to Thessaloniki, where we are primitive and we have no means of circulating the world except of buses, which are rotten, archaic, in freaky state - we do not discuss it - where the world is stacked every day, but, because the coronary is peculiar, curious and perverted, it does not go to buses to catch the world. There are also investigations in this regard which your Prime Minister, Mr Karamanlis, has invoked. He said: "I have research that it does not fit into buses." He said it twice in here, and we left the jaws. We were looking at it like that, embryos! What did the Prime Minister say now? What did the man say? It's not stuck! You know, it's a virus thing. This is a weird virus. He sticks where he wants it. The buses don't fit. Apparently, he's taken orders like that. That's all about your bill. I, Mr Karamanlis, don't know if at some point you want to comment on them. We have the feeling that you have lost all contact with society. You don't humiliate the world. You live in a parallel universe. Without reason you feel successful in everything you do, economy, pandemic, that you have succeeded in everything, as government. You continue a vengeful, fascist, punishing policy towards the Greeks. And that won't do you any good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u49	And we thank Mr. Heta. The floor is now, after the Stepma is settled, the special speaker of Mera25, George Logiadis. Mr. Loyadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a Member from Heraklion Crete and as a member of the Committee on Road Safety, I will speak today about today's draft law on driving safely. First of all, I shall refer to the accident a few months ago outside our Parliament. Today, to enter the House, we come from the side of Queen Sofia, that is to say we come from Kriezotou Street and when we go up Kriezotou and turn right into the Academy Avenue, we find our parked left cars, vehicles, buses that make it difficult for visual contact on the road. There will definitely be more accidents. It's just a matter of time. It is also a matter of time, unfortunately, for electric bicycle accidents to be carried out with the skates in the traffic in here, because there are no appropriate infrastructure with separate strips for these vehicles. The issue is a huge one, when there is no political will over time to deal with traffic accidents or better,'motor murders'. Because when you drive under the influence of alcohol, it's murder, it's not an accident. Amputations and deaths combined with enormous subgenitality reach the limits of national destruction. There is no political will over time for a solution. We, in Greece, drive as we drive and when we go abroad, in Germany, in France, anywhere we drive like angels. Why? Because there is respect, we know that there is police, we know that there are sanctions and penalties. What can I say about black plates, shot plates? We want good tourism, we tell Greece. It sees our visitor shot and tanned plates, graffiti, branches in front of them. Do they contribute to road safety? Of course not. You're talking about driving licences from seventeen years old. What I see in Crete gives me so much regret. You go to villages and what do you see? And it's not a matter of age, it's a matter of if the kid's legs arrive at the pedals of his car. But is that possible? There are three measures on road safety. The immediate measure is control, police. The medium-term measure is infrastructure, roads and vehicles and a long-term measure is education, the creation of a road culture. All three of you rank with zero. Did you ever get caught - in time I'm talking - a falsified car? When was a vehicle confiscated which the driver ran too fast or was under the influence of high percentages of alcohol or drugs and injured or killed a man? What age of seventeen are we talking about when a twelve - year - old child can drive a car, also doing the chief? I become unpleasant, but I want to save lives really, because I have seen the pain of people on my island, but also on the committee, when the commander of Athens had arrived and told us the shocking day of his life was when he had to go to a family and said that both of her children had been killed in an accident. Today, 3 November, we celebrate St. George Methodis everywhere in Greece. We're opening the new wines. But I have never seen such a day increased surveillance, control and policing for drivers if they have consumed alcohol. Increased police surveillance I've only seen protests and wood in female Bulgarians, and here you rank with excellent marks. What changes in the acquisition of a driving licence with today's draft law? In fact, nothing changes, as the institutions have said. All in recent years, the identical draft laws, all, have been talking about combating corruption and interoperableness, but they do not have any real results. So here you're graded with excellent. What will the instructor do in the back seat? You think that's how you're gonna solve the corruption problem? There is no need for the instructor to take part in an examination. We believe that the right of seventeen-year-old children to take a driving licence is a gift, a cherry. You want their favor, you want their votes, as you want to say. They are the demands of the large companies. Because it seems to me personally that at the same time four major car companies are advertising to drive children from 16 years of age without a licensed electric car. But is that possible? The companies want to sell. The child, however, first needs to learn to walk, he must learn to use public transport, to ride, and then drive a motor vehicle. Have respect. With the present draft law, which states that it has twice as many provisions as it had in the public consultation, it is attempting to modernise the framework for the education and examination of public drivers. The main aim is to deal with corruption in the examination process of candidate drivers, the well-known 'ladder' that has been providing for a long driving licence with opaque procedures. The problem has been known for decades and has contributed to the creation of a bad school culture in the country, with tragic results, as Greece has been top of car crash lists for years and these lists have not been reduced. Here you are, of course, afflictingly afflicting! Although tightening the examination rules of the candidate drivers is moving in the right direction, it alone is not enough to deal with the problem. The irreversible question is: Who corrupted us? But, of course, all those who have been ruling us all these years, the New Democracy, the PASOK - Change Movement and SYRIZA. One of the most important issues was - and it is - the outdated way of examination and examination in technical tests, which, however, had little to do with the conditions for the candidate driver to face up to the road. Unfortunately, this draft law, although the title refers to the modernisation of the framework for training and examination of the candidate drivers, is only spent in the second part, the examination. There is no reference to the bill for content and for the process of education. The bill's gone wrong. No mention is made of road behaviour. The creation of a proper management of each driver's state of mind is not achieved through sterile tests and technical tests, no matter how impracticable they are. Road culture, respect for the other driver, pedestrians are skills, which must be cultivated from an early age, such as in so many European countries, by schools. In this direction, it must move in a substantial way and not typically, as is now the case, a government which - supposedly - wants to improve the situation on the streets of the country. Here, as a MP from Heraklion Crete, I would like to mention and expose the special school "Agios Spiridon" to Cronus of Heraklion, the centre of special children for the work they do for road safety. It is a school of special children and they have a small traffic treatment centre that goes all the other schools from Heraklion Prefecture, or from elsewhere, to attend from children special needs of good road behavior. Furthermore, there is no reference to the draft law to how the candidates of the candidates will be trained, which so far are undertaken by the other officials of the Ministry, without any substantial specialisation, who simply check whether the candidate driver has followed the procedures closely. Finally, we consider it absolutely unacceptable that private centres for evaluation and driving preparation should be set up for the best service provided for in Article 24. As a PARTA25, we stress that it is a purely state's obligation to ensure that the necessary services are provided to the citizens. With the establishment of these centres you definitely give private individuals, while creating citizens of many speeds, as some are served by public structures, but in cases of people with motor problems if they are in Attica they are served by the "Virgin", while those in the province should be addressed to individuals with the necessary price, of course, two measures and two weights. Article 30 is one of the well-known superbs, such as the draft law on popular markets recently, where the Minister is given overpower, so that he can regulate all relevant issues by ministerial decision. We also point out and emphasise that European Regulation 561/2006, should be complied with so that all vehicles carrying more than nine passengers have a tachograph, be it urban buses or any other means. For cameras on signals, this camera should normally be, apart from the registration number of cars, photograph the driver's face. It can't be that we don't photograph the driver's face and leave it like that. I personally have dealt with this issue in Germany 15 years ago, where I had exceeded by nine kilometers the speed limit within a city, and in Greece the call, fine 15 euros, with my fine and registration number. This is very basic, or each offender will say that his grandmother was driving and he will get his grandmother's license. This has been done too many times, as we know. This must be abolished. This is a complication, it's corruption. Say it what you want, but it won't solve the problem. I will submit the call that came to me personally from Germany and a corresponding call given last year to a Swiss client in Greece to compare what one call is like from Germany and how the other call from Greece is. [[At this point Mr Georgios Logiadis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, we must stress that there has never been any work-time infringement for professional drivers. The calls shall be given for either a mobile belt or a helmet, but when for driving hours. In road safety and in today's draft law and in general in transport and safety, many ministries, such as the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Civil Protection, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance, are involved in practice. So today's bill should be a bill, but unfortunately it's a rough bill. Another issue is the time-consuming problem of issuing diplomas in their time and renewing them. These are a time-consuming request which has not yet been resolved. To stress that for professional drivers their professional diploma is a tool to go to work and live their families. I come to Article 41, which increases the age limits of drivers of trucks or buses for public or private use in the sixty-nine years of their age, which lead to nothing safer, and also to drivers of school buses in the sixty-fifth year of their age. In Chapter F, driving licences, candidates' trainers, economic issues, in Article 25, are essentially the remodelling of Article 94 of Law 2696/1999 of the Road Traffic Code, which includes the paragraph of a previous law relating to driving without a driving licence. This is not even the case, but it is a very big problem. There is a huge number of drivers without a licence or driving vehicles with a lower licence. A very large number of wheels have been caused by drivers without a licence, several of them with the victims themselves. The state has a full responsibility when arresting someone to drive without permission and lets him continue to drive without permission. after paying 200 euros only, resulting in killing someone or killing himself. It does not even provide for the removal of vehicle plates the draft law today. It also does not provide for deprivation of the right to obtain a licence for a long time. It does not provide for retention of the vehicle. Here, I would like to refer to the two new traffic with the distributor in Thessaloniki, which broke down a car that ran over a hundred miles per hour, as well as the biker who carried her out, because there are simply no lanes as defined by the CVAK. We'd like to see the test simulation. With the examination system proposed by today's draft law, what specifications will cameras have and why will only the memory card come out and not the whole camera? How does the crisis, poverty and tolerance affect people’s road attitudes? When will the torture finally end of the families of car victims who will have to take their dead journeys? The examiners will be subjected to tests? Identity will be made by who? Now, there's an I.D., but they're getting ruthless in the exams. I would like to refer to a real fact, one of the many and every day. August 2011, Heraklion Crete. A 50-year-old enjoys the first day of retirement, which is the last day of his life, because a nineteen-year-old driver of a car without a driving licence and with a expiry of the vehicle safety lost control, entered the opposite current and at a very high speed vaccinated and killed the fifty-year-old. He threw him too many feet away. The attacker was arrested and before the victim was even buried he was released, accused of the crime of negligence. April 2017, Heraklion, six years after the incident, and after multiple postponements, he is finally avenged to the primary criminal for the murder of the victim in the presence of the perpetrator. His lawyer asks him out of the room that the victim's relatives should not have any influence on their crying, the judges. The relatives shall be placed in the last row of seats. The court imposed a three-year prison sentence on the perpetrator. May 2018, Heraklion. At the request of the perpetrator and after a postponement he had discussed, the case is dealt with and finally to a second degree. The shooter doesn't bother to attend. There is also no lawyer present, nor is his lawyer. The Minutes of yesterday's sitting have been distributed. The victim's family is there. They're called on the step, but they're told they don't need to talk because it doesn't make any sense. I'm saying exactly what was said. The decision is three years on parole. The three years on parole, the prototypes, will be reduced to two. Obviously the court appreciated that in their absence the defendant and his lawyer facilitated the procedure and contributed to the much faster administration of justice, and justice rewarded them. It is another positive message for every violating criminal driver, another message of contempt for the victims of the wheels and their families. So why take a driving licence and why learn to drive safely when there is no effective punishment for infraction. In conclusion, I would like to apologize personally because I have not been able to reduce or eliminate these accidents or murders completely. We are voting against this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis too. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport has now asked for the floor, not for his main speech, but for it to be placed on the amendments of his Ministry, namely Amendment No 1116 and Amendment No 25, and with number 1121 and special number 30, but also to make some clarifications of the legal form, so that the next speakers can also be facilitated. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin, I would like to say that I really will not respond to the phenomena that have been heard from the SYRIZA side. We are accustomed to SYRIZA Members using these tactics, a vicious - I would say - and an unrelenting political speech, one which I would say has no beginning, middle and end. However, I will say two things, Mr President, which have given me particular impression. At some point we have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur say that "we have gone up to power..." - by meaning of the New Democracy - "with a drought. Are you all right? Where do you live? What's that for? Don't you respect that kind of disrespect you have in the people's command? Is the New Democracy climbed into power? You remind us of what other officials have said about the joints of power and other things, which show that you really do not understand what parliamentary system you are in. And I am sincerely sorry about this, because this kind of political extremism has really had a really long time to hear. [[At this point the First Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The second point I would like to make is the so-called privatisation of TRAINOSE and to remind my dear colleagues who are here that when the debate took place in 2012-2015, TRAINOSE would be privatised at a price of EUR 300 million, remember what SYRIZA said at that time? Selling, treason, that you'll take us to special courts if we dare do this privatisation. Then SYRIZA came to power. And what did he do? Do you know how much SYRIZA's OSCE, colleagues of SYRIZA, was sold for sale? Forty-five million euros. I should like to say this again to be recorded in the Minutes: SYRIZA's proud left-wing government, which is supposed to be against privatisation, privatised TRAINOSE with EUR 45 million, which is essentially one year for services for fertile lines. The Greek State pays 50m euros each year to make TRAINOSE some fertile routes and colleagues of SYRIZA, who have the political courage to talk about public transport, sold TRAINOSE for 45m. As you know, sometimes denial of reality has medical causes. I cannot follow that logic, which I hear from the mouths of some people here. But we also have a memory when you say such things, you will receive the answers. For this reason, I think that those who watch public affairs see where SYRIZA lies and see where the government and the acceptance it has to the public. Let's go to the bill, for which we also heard little about SYRIZA, we listened to generalities, and I am sorry to say it, but I think that you did not really make the bill read carefully and make a review or make proposals. That is the point of parliamentaryism. That makes sense when we discuss a bill. We are listening to the institutions, the proposals are made, and where corrections are to be made, that is what we are going to do today. I come to the point that the Committee on Production and Trade has been very concerned, namely the question of the position of the instructor during the examination procedure. The initial view, as you all know, and recorded in the original text of the bill was that of being in the backseat, so that even the non-conscious instructors do not have the opportunity, if you wish, to intervene in the past. We have listened with interest and with the views of Members in the committee and the views of all the bodies, and I do not hide you that some of the arguments we have heard against this measure have been serious. I would remind you here, ladies and gentlemen, that the law passed by SYRIZA, Law 4599/2019, on diplomas other than the instructor had him outside the vehicle. To understand how SYRIZA's ladies and gentlemen are legislating and how we legislate. Also, can I remind you that this law, which they voted on, was such an excellent law, which was never implemented and which was done? When we came in 2019 to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport we saw that more than a hundred fifty thousand candidates - many of whom were professionals - were hostages because they could not get their diplomas. I am saying this so that we know a point of comparison as to how to legislate and how to legislate. In this light, therefore, and bearing in mind that, firstly, there will be a camera, which will fully record the internal one, secondly, that audiovisual material will be retained and subject to controls and, thirdly, that the examination by supervisors will be monitored, as well as that provided for in the applicable ministerial decision which follows very strict sanctions both in driving schools and in examiners if it is established that the examination is inconsistent, so taking into account these five very specific points, we consider that we have several safety controls that allow us to accept the driving instructor's stay in the front seat. That is why we will be tabling legislative improvements. And I would like to say, if you wish, ladies and gentlemen, that is the point of the whole procedure in this House. We're talking about a bill that, if you like, doesn't have an ideological mark. We are discussing how we can get a driving licence in a easier, practical and reliable way. So we don't talk about the eyes of the world. We are not the political party that does not have dialogue. We are having a dialogue, we are listening to the actors and, where we have to do back, we will do back and always, but with a critical goal, we are coming to this debate with a very open mind. Mr President, I should like to go very quickly and close with the amendments concerning the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. I am sure that other fellow ministers, who have amendments during the debate, will come and defend their amendments. So in the amendments, the first general number 1116 and a specialist number 25 relates to infrastructural matters. In particular, Article 1 deals with the unforeseen situation created by the inability to send water consumption accounts of the ECHR. and the existing scheme is extended until 30 January 2022, as the pre-contractual audit to be carried out by the Court of Auditors is still pending. Article 2 concerns the abolition of the exemption from the Patras - Tower - Tsakona from the concession contract. I see Mr Katrin and his dear colleague from Messinia, Mr Lambropoulos, whom I think they are concerned with. What are we doing with this regulation, ladies and gentlemen? I'm saying it's clear. Based on the initial design and given that the concession section had been ratified by Law No.3621/2007, i.e. in the concession contract for the Olympic Road, we now make it possible to build this section, as originally planned. After all, this section seems to us all to be characterised as a priority infrastructure project and thus ensures its immediate construction within the already ratified concession contract, which has also been accepted by the European Commission. So, at first, we closed the "bridge of Arta" that we had so many dead each year in Patras - Tower, after the comic-tragics that the previous government had done and had broken this road into eight pieces - we all know, why don't talk about it again - and we close this loose end by putting the piece of Patras - Tower back to Olympia. We have received all the final approvals from the European Commission and this work is finally beginning at the beginning of next year. In addition, we go to the second piece of Good Water - Chacona, which, although not studyablely mature, is the possibility of this part joining the concession contract in the future, because we are the party, the party we believe in on the private initiative, and we believe in the concession agreement. We did them in the period 2004-2009, so we also give the opportunity to this part, a very important road for the region, to be able to start. I move on to the second amendment with a general number of 1121, and a special number of 30, which contains eight Article, which concerns the transport ministry. In the first, it regulates the possibility of paying Attica CATEGORIES and adjacent to the Attica CBEL, such as Thebes, Corinth and Chalkida for October 2020. I would remind you then that, in order to address the transport problem that arose because of the pandemic, particularly in Athens, we asked the CCTs to put their vehicles in circulation despite the fact that the procedures that were in existence were long ago. With Article 2, therefore, we are now extending the age limits for the withdrawal of all categories of buses, i.e. buses, school and taxis, for one year because of the pandemic. This provision, however, applies only to those which expired or expired in 2020, 2021 and 2022. The provision of Article 3 complements the current legislative framework enabling small municipalities of islands less than 10 000 to undertake the work of micro-union with their own or leased buses. Article 4 allows the owners of a car taxi registered in an administrative unit, belonging to the South Aegean Region to replace passenger vehicles with vehicles from five places to take them into vehicles with six to nine places and which will carry a taxi. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] With this provision we are implementing a consistent request from taxi owners especially in the tourist regions and we are piloting it at first stage in the South Aegean Region, and we believe that this measure will address a number of problems that arise, particularly during the tourist season. Let us go to Article 5 and in the context of the broader legislation of the Government concerning the independent authorities of our country and the need to clarify the legal nature of these. It is necessary to amend the name of the National Flight Coordination Authority and replace it with the name: National Flight Coordination Organisation. In other words, nothing changes at all in the areas of the operation of this body. Article 6 concerns water routes. I would remind you that, with the provisions of Law 4663/2020, our Ministry made a very serious effort with the help of the then State Secretary of Mr. Kefaliannis to finally simplify the tremendous bureaucratic procedures that existed for the establishment and operation of the waters in Greece. In order for these procedures to run even faster, we therefore provide for the granting of a temporary licence for water supply with the obligation within one year to produce all other supporting documents for the grant of a definitive licence. Article 7 provides for the possibility of releasing the Greek Police and extending the scope of the task of providing security services to private companies by the Civil Aviation Service. This would result in the security checks at airports, i.e. airports that are still in state administration, with the planned and appropriately trained permanent staff. Article 8 concerns TEO S.A. is under liquidation from 2014. At the moment, and given that most of the requirements to third parties are waived, as well as that the operation of the company in liquidation produces more costs than revenues, it is considered necessary to speed up the liquidation for the benefit of the Greek State. I think we all agree that such an anonymous company of the Greek State has not been in liquidation since 2014. So we transfer to the Greek state, which is the Catholic successor of TEO SA. all assets that outweigh those liabilities. These were the amendments I wanted to make, Mr President. Thank you for your tolerance, and we will be presenting very briefly the legislative improvement to which I referred a moment ago in my speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u55	The Parliamentary Representatives now why are you asking for the floor? Do you want to make your speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u56	A direct reference was made by the Minister to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group with unfortunate designations, and I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u57	Well, that's one. So you get three, four minutes to answer. You, Mr. Catarin, why are you asking for a reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u58	On the amendment, the amendments tabled by the Minister. We want to ask some questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u59	They can be placed in your speech as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u60	No, I want to ask some clarifications. We have a right under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u61	All right, I'll put you time from your dentistry. We're not gonna take it that way, every time the Minister says something, you take the floor and wait for the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u62	No, because he analysed the amendments, I think we have a right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u63	Well, sit down, I won't blame you, but don't take that rope. Here, Mr Pappa, you have the floor for four minutes on the subject you said, because the rest will tell you when you go to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, I would like by the Bureau to ask Mr Karamanlis to request that the arguments he has used to justify the style, substance and positions taken by the Qualified Opposition in the debate on this bill be deleted from the Minutes. I hope they don't characterize him. He said that our criticism and the way we are placed is due to medical reasons. I think that it does not honour Parliament, it does not honour any of the people who are present and, with their own contribution, these things should be deleted from the Minutes. Now, to privatise the OSE, the privatisation of the OSE was a commitment of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u65	'TRAINOSE', Mr. Pappa! Other OSE, other "TRAINOSE"!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u66	Yes, of 'TRAINOSE'. It was the country's commitment, therefore, from the first memorandum, to the second memorandum and, of course, it is a commitment that our own governance has inherited. We inherited the super-government debts with which you loaded the country - half a minute, you will hear it all - and we inherited your commitments and - be careful! - the open state aid files, which you made three attempts to privatize "TRAINOSE", but a commitment to close these files did not win. And when we fought to close the files, to save the country five billion euros, do you know what you were saying? Here is the statement by Mr Hatzidakis in 2017: "No excuse for delaying privatisation!" Was the country negotiating to close these files, to keep the property of the public and the real estate and the cars in the public sector, and you were on the side of the lenders, so you could come and be ironic?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u67	You didn't slit those files?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u68	All right, all right!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u69	Are we going to have a big meeting? Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u70	The people have taken their own conclusions. So I say that we will also have the opportunity to discuss this. I sincerely hope that you have heard what I said at the beginning of my position, Mr Karamanlis, and that you stand up to the circumstances and that the rest will be discussed both on mushrooms and on delays and derailments. We had another incident yesterday. This morning the suburban one hour back, everything. They collapsed the keys, we didn't hear a word. But I'll see you in our speech too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u71	The Minister hasn't made his speech yet. Here, Mr Katrin, you have the floor for three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, I will only refer to the amendments tabled by the Minister in Amendment 1116 concerning the return to the concession of the Patras - Tower - Chacona road route. We have had too many discussions in this Chamber about this, we have also asked a question recently, Minister. You have given concrete timetables, and I understand that - if I am interpreting what you have said today - your assessment is valid - the commitment is that the process is being completed at the end of the year and at the beginning of the next year the projects are starting. So you are bringing an amendment today that you are returning to the concession of the entire piece of Patras - Tower - Chacona. I ask, then, directly: is this part of the agreement and we have by the end of the year a signature and an agreement with the European Competition Committee that the Patras Tower project actually returns to concession? That is the first question. Secondly, the piece of Tower - Tsakona, which, according to the amendment, you brought back to the concession today, is the subject of the memorandum of understanding, agreement, contract - as you wish, say it - with the Olympian road? Thirdly, if this is not included in the agreement or in the Memorandum of Understanding with Olympia, what is the Ministry's decision and strategy for the construction of the Tower-Tsakona section? It is not enough to bring it today with the amendment to concession, you must inform not only, Minister, the National Representation - I think you agree with this - and the inhabitants of Elias and Messinia about what the next steps are in the Tower - Tsakona, if there is agreement, discussion, or alternative option and confirm to us once again when the process is completed to begin this work, the 'Artas Fiscal', with the time-consuming and cross-party responsibilities from 2007 until today. The responsibilities of the previous government were overwhelming, but it has also been two and a half years since the new government, and we all wait with anguish, especially the inhabitants of the regions, when this work will finally begin and end. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u74	Now, listen, Minister, what do I tell you? It goes without saying that when a minister presents a bill, colleagues of counter-population will refer to him. Whenever a petition is made, you will not ask me why you will be answering, because then colleagues will never speak. You'll write them and in your central speech you'll answer. Now I will give you the floor for three minutes only to answer Mr Pappas, because the questions raised by Mr Katrinis - and that is a lot - I imagine in your central position you will answer everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u75	But it is an amendment, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u76	Here, you have the floor for three minutes and the Ping-Pong stops to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u77	I will finish in a few minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u78	Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u79	Mr Pappa, you have confused the OSCE with the 'TRAINOSE'. You have confused OSE with "TRAINOSE" and don't make me like this now. These tricks on the SYRIZA Central Commission! You are in one room, where you once again show that you are completely indisputable and say things that have nothing to do with reality. Are you coming and defending the privatisation of TRAINOSE? Oh, well, are we all right? So, Samaras and Venizelos, who went to privatise her for 300 million euros, then you spent fourteen generations, when you lived in the beautiful times of the 'left revolution' and you came and privatised 'TRAINOSE' for 45 million euros? But are we serious? What are you talking about? And do you have the political stature to come here and tell us that this was a privatization we had to do because it was a Memorandum obligation? Really, Mr. Pappa, was that a Memorandum obligation? But you'd sketch the memorials, Mr. Pappa! You didn't slit the memoirs? Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to tell you what the difference is between how one has to make privatisations and how not. Mr Papas and his company privatised TRAINOSE for 45 million euros and signed the airports of "FRAPORT" with pain of soul - you will remember what they said - plus the port of Piraeus, which you said at the time you would never privatise it and signed the contract with the PPA. Well, then, in this place once, should there not be a consistency, Mr President, between words and works? We, when we privatised something at the Ministry, Mr. Pappa, privatised Ennaia at a price of 1.5 billion euros. This is the difference between us and SYRIZA's main colleagues! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Very fast to go to Patras - Chacona. Mr. Catherine, I think we're confused. We said that part was deferred. So we have the possibility at this time under the law to be absolutely clear to our obligations this piece, like the Patras to Tower, which had come out of the Olympia Road Convention, to incorporate it, which we did. This possibility gives us this amendment so that in future the procedure for Good Water - Chacona begins, because we will all agree that if there is one way of doing this, the concessionaire will do so, as will the Tower Patras. We've had enough experiments with Mr. Kalogerica's pastures and the contractions. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So it is good to put things in order and let Olympia also do this work in the future. However, because I do not want to say things that have nothing to do with reality, this is something we need to discuss in a second phase and it is not at present, because we unblocked the issue of Patras - Tower and then the negotiation on the other road will follow, so that the road can finally reach and be completed, as we saw in the original design of 2007. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u81	Listen, Mr Giannoulis, there is a parliamentary representative. When there is a parliamentary representative, the rapporteur sits well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u82	He's become personal. He didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Giannoulis, will anyone answer the minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u84	But he didn't answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u85	Good, when you take the floor in your dentistry, you'll answer. We need to run the process. First of all, because you are all aware that I cannot keep Mr Ploris in Parliament for a very long time, I will give Mr Plouris the floor for five minutes to present the Minister for Health's amendment. Then, as usual, I will ask inversely one - a Parliamentary representative if he wants to put a question for clarification to the Minister. Here you go, Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing this amendment which, in its first part, in the first three articles, refers essentially to possibilities for paying COVID costs to hospitals, for the possibilities that IFET can receive vaccines and medicines, as well as the possibility - which already exists but is extended - that we can also donate and sell vaccines to third countries, combined with the lots which may be brought to an end. We usually give them to third countries as part of an overall European solidarity that exists or becomes transnational agreements. From that point on, health workers, doctors and health workers are motivated to be able to move per U.S. in order to be able to move around. I must tell you that in Article 4 there will be a legislative improvement beyond the specialities mentioned, and the general doctors who had made the request will also be added, which is reasonable. At the same time, private doctors are allowed to provide services in the system for a certain period of time - until March - and to pay EUR 250 for specific specialities that we need and are basically linked to and are in the context of dealing with COVID.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u87	Is the EUR 250 mixed or clean, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u88	At the moment, Mr President, there is this figure and there is also the debate with the Ministry of Finance, on the basis of the amount allocated to us, that there should also be an autonomous tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u89	Mixed or clean, Minister? The President asked you clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u90	Maybe you didn't hear it, Mr. Giannoulis. I say that we are in agreement with the Ministry of Finance within the framework of the two million euros that we will have to determine exactly what it will be like. We are currently giving the opportunity and will then be determined precisely, because decisions are also being taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u91	You don't know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u92	But, Mr. Giannoulis, it's a very simple thing. We have a specific amount that we have ensured and that this amount is clarified.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u93	You said the answer, Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u94	There is privileged treatment as a whole, just to get in. In addition, we allow doctors who are within the National Health System to be able to do this on-call above the plaque, which they did not exist. So we want to be clear about private doctors. Because the pandemic is in a growing direction across Europe as a whole and in our country, we receive services from the private sector - as you know, especially in Thessaloniki and Thessaly - and indeed for COVID incidents basically have entered Thessaloniki and in Larissa with COVID incidents and with non-COVID incidents - we receive beds, we ask for private doctors in the system, and if there is no response to these incentives that are being given, because we want to be perfectly honest, if we need to go into compulsory procedures now with private doctors to get into the system. The fact that these on-calls are being given very privileged tax treatment to individuals to enter, already existing ERC doctors will be able to pay these on-calls above the cap that exists, are sufficient incentives to start and support the system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u95	What specialties?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u96	They're specific specialties, anesthetics, pneumonologist. At the same time, it extends the review of the measure of the mandatory vaccination measure to health and nursing staff until 31 December. Indeed, they should know that - as we have said in a clear way - those who are permanent doctors will be suspended until they have to be suspended and returned on the basis of the pandemic. Accordingly, those who are subsidiary, obviously - because the subsidiary is a contract renewal for a certain period of time and until March - cannot be renewed if they choose not to be vaccinated. In conclusion, Mr President, the Government yesterday announced concrete measures. At the moment, in a clear way, and with a honesty, we are saying the following. The National Health System has been strengthened. We have 12 thousand subsidiary doctors, over two thousand permanent doctors, over two thousand subsidiary doctors. There are more than doubled ICU beds available to us with a thousand three hundred ICU beds, obviously not only for CIVID patients but also for all those suffering from other diseases. These are the possibilities of the health system that are constantly being strengthened and, at the same time, we are calling for assistance - and they provide us with it as we have already agreed for all of Greece how the services will be produced - and for the private sector. These are the possibilities and, respectively, the potential of the vaccine. And the numbers are relentless. 87% with 90% in ICUs are people who are not vaccinated. A woman got pregnant the other day because she heard a doctor who told her not to be vaccinated, and that really is a pain for each of us. And, respectively, the invaders have 30% more chance of getting severely sick or getting sick or needing a bed for the IF or even losing their lives against the vaccinated. Vaccination is very important. The third dose, the so-called booster dose, is particularly important because, ladies and gentlemen, all the studies show that the risk to vaccinated people relates, in particular, to people who have completed their vaccination and have spent six months. Therefore, any restrictive measures taken from now on, as announced yesterday, will have to do with our fellow people who wish not to be vaccinated, because 73% of the adults who were vaccinated are at risk, at risk and at risk of transmitting less, are surely at risk of being seriously ill, and these people can have their lives back. On the contrary, our fellow people who choose not to be vaccinated, on the one hand, are at risk, but, unfortunately, they too are at risk, as is the case with nursing. Therefore, any restrictive measures are not of a punishable nature, but are of a protective nature. Those who are most at risk cannot, for the sake of public health, have the freedoms that he can have, neither is he the same, nor is he the same to pass on to third parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u97	You've become understandable. Okay. And those of us Members who are now in semester - the speeches are and have already been vaccinated - set an example and make the third dose. Not only for example, but also for the epidemiological reasons that the Minister said. Well, I'm taking it back. Mrs. Bakada is not here. Mr. Loyadis is here. You want to ask something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u98	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Villardo, how about you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u100	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u101	Here, you have three minutes exactly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. I won't need that much. First of all, I would like to say that six amendments have been tabled so far - we have said so a thousand times - we do not even have time to read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u103	Don't put that on me. For the Minister to leave. You can then say what you want, but now tell me about what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u104	Okay, but I have to say it. Now, my question is about Article 2. Here we see that there is a surplus. We would like to ask why there is a surplus of vaccines and what states this surplus will be allocated. Then, in Article 3, we constantly see that you are legislating by way of derogation. We are against this legislation by way of derogation, which must at some point be stopped. We keep seeing the same things. Finally, in Article 10, in the conference on pandemic issues and various other issues, everyone referred to the fact that there must be persuasiveness and not compulsion. Here, again, we see that you're going to the subject of coercion. We are against the mandatoryity of vaccines and obviously in favour of persuasion. At some point you should understand that the way you manage the pandemic is wrong. This is seen by all the sizes we've seen so far. Our question here is why the statistics we see in Greece are different compared with all the other countries. I really have looked too many statistics and see that there is only one difference in Greece. Obviously, as far as the extension of the requirement of vaccines to doctors is concerned, we believe that it is not legitimate and should not be the case. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Plori, keep them and you'll answer to the whole end. Mr. Karathanasopoulos is missing. Does he want anything to ask Mr. Stoltides?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u106	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u107	We are therefore moving on to Mr Katrin. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u108	I think, Mr President, that you will agree that the Minister for Development is here not only to develop the amendment, but also because of the general situation that concerns all of us, I imagine, in this Chamber...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u109	The Minister is here for his amendment. That's why he's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u110	Very good, but on the occasion that he is here on the amendment, I would like to ask the Minister, Mr President, starting with Article 10, with regard to the extension of the review of compulsoryity. I want to link it to yesterday's announcement of the measures. What are you waiting for to review the enforceability of vaccination in certain categories of public officials, who are in contact with the citizens? Do you expect us to have a launch next week of the number of imports into hospitals and intubated hospitals, or do you accept the opinion of your colleague who said: 'We do not care and have ten thousand cases, six hundred and four hundred imports per day, why do we not care what scientists say, but we decide, the government', that is, you? I would like you to reply directly, Minister, if you will accept that view. I would like you to reply directly to me - and I agree with it with these measures, which are measures to combat pandemic - if the committee of experts agreed with what you have proposed yesterday and to exclude specific areas from the application of the control measures against pandemic. I want you to tell me whether the opinion of the committee is in agreement or is a political decision of the Government and of course you can explain that to us. You should also explain to colleagues why, while with Article 2, you have surplus stocks of vaccines not only by concession but also by sale to third countries, you are continuing the exceptional supplies throughout the range of pandemic and vaccines. Explain why you're creating this whole gap. So here, Minister, you cannot just come here with a sense of derogations, which you do not justify. As long as there are emergencies, the decisions you take as a ministry and as a government must be in line with that spirit. Yesterday's announcements are not lifted to the extent of the circumstances and the criticality of the situation. You know that very well. The experts and specialist scientists have warned you. You also insist on the logic that the government decides, by announcing the successful model of the first phase of the pandemic, which we have all applauded, and we have all agreed that it has led to very good results. You are driving the country and society into dangerous situations in the next few months alone, Mr President, because the government is afraid to bear political costs. The government, which has been proclaiming responsibility and public interest until recently, is now swept away while looking at the problem and the experts point to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u111	Good. Because Mr Pappas is not here, I will give Mr Giannoulis the floor, if he wishes, for three minutes. Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. With absolute respect for your face and your experience, I believe that the cowardly and obscene avoidance of Mr Karamanlis to respond to the vulgar approach that in SYRIZA they have a medical problem, afflicts Parliament's function. He left like a thief. I'm imprinting it for the conversation. Mr. Plouris, can you explain to us what extent you have replaced the health workers who have been suspended at the same time as at the hospitals in Thessaloniki is it now acceptable to everyone that the limits of risk have been exceeded? Is Article 9 with the approval of what you are doing and burdening or simplifying the safety standards for patients and the severely ill, who, during the process, may not have the services of specialist doctors? And thirdly, following on from what Mr Katrinis said - and I hope that you will not show the monumental cowardice of Karamanlis to throw it into anti-SYRIZA hysteria and all of this - can you tell the Greeks at this time with seven thousand cases, that there must be checks on public services, banks, public bodies and the exclusion of adorable spaces, with the popular approach of Georgian that we cannot do so for historical reasons? And you are the government who are responsible for the death of the pandemic, why do you not want to be unpleasant in certain groups of Greek citizens? Finally, explain to us what it is that leads you to exclude adorable spaces, beyond the supermarkets, regarding the conduct of checks! And as far as Thessaloniki is concerned - and I am closing up, Mr President - you are lying. What you have been doing is a restoration therapist, resulting in the Thessaloniki of the thousands of cases who want to be hospitalized for non-COVID diseases, being a one-way street to go to private clinics to save their lives, because in public hospitals there is no hope anymore. Don't you understand? Contribute to a restoration therapist, "Help", two hundred beds! It's a restoration therapist. They didn't tell you? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u113	Now we're going to New Democracy. Would Mrs. Arabatzi want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u114	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u115	Do you, Mr Kelles, because of medical status, want to ask something about the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u116	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u117	Therefore, Minister, you have the floor to speak from your position for five minutes in order to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u118	So let's go to one - one thing. I heard the Greek Solution say - and the Change Movement said - why there is stock in the vaccines and we continue to get vaccines. Actually, from the Greek Solution, I was expecting it. I can't expect it from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u119	By way of derogation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u120	But, by way of derogation, the whole order of the European Union, Mr Katrin. There has been no competitive process by the European Union and you know that. And I ask you this: are you fans, like possibly the Greek Solution, that we should not have vaccines for 27% of adults and 37% of adults that have not yet been vaccinated? Do you know how the stock is being created? I won't tell you anything scientific that you don't know. Vaccines have a expiry date. So, having a expiry date, we have two logics. We can go out and say "Those who have not yet been vaccinated, stop and have no vaccines". I imagine there would be no one here to say not to give that possibility. We have a supply of vaccines that if tomorrow morning the whole population needs to make a third dose, and all the world that has not been vaccinated needs to do so. So this is public health and prevention policy. And obviously when the expiry date comes or you make transnational arrangements for sales or donate to third countries and of course you make supplies of subsequent vaccines, because it is time for the world to make a third dose, and perhaps our fellow people who have not yet made the first dose, if they decide to do so, we as a state want to provide them with it. It is therefore clear why there is stock, as long as it is a European agreement. The specific provision of IFET is for services, not for vaccines. However, vaccines are coming under a central European Union procedure again. From this process they come. They don't come from a central tender procedure. The agreement between the European Union and all companies has been reached and we are proportionately taking the vaccines. And I expect one here in Parliament to say 'We do not want to take these vaccines, stop tomorrow morning taking them' and say: 'Whoever did the first and second instalments did them. We guarantee you the third and the others do not." As a state we have to have vaccines for Greek citizens and invite them to go. The issue of compulsoryity will be taken from two sides, on the basis of what has been said. It says the Change Movement: compulsory in other categories. I expect him to name them, not in general and without vaguely. I would remind you that, when the compulsory health staff entered, neither of you voted from all parties. You left on the grounds that 'we are not discussing why it came as an amendment'. But you didn't vote. So we say: compulsoryity based on the Bioethics Committee has been placed on the factor that individual choice affects public health as well. That is what the Bioethics Committee has told us. That's where we put her. There must be this constitutional balance in other categories, because individual choice is a right. What do we put in these charges? We put the extra test and limit them to activities. But if you want to go to compulsoryity, even if you are overcoming the intention of constitutional arrangements - I imagine at least the Change Movement is concerned - you will not be able to give up on us later on on the National Health System. With 7% -8% you come and say "Why don't you get them back?" So what happens when there's probably 20% and 30% in the public sector? Now we're going to what SYRIZA says. He's over everything. On the one hand, it says "you must not restrain the inconveniences" and on the other hand, where the limitations made have not been introduced, it is forcing us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u121	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Giannoulis, things are very simple and you'll understand. Stop mushroom pluralism like the photos you were uploading yesterday with Mr. Poppa. Make a serious opposition. Let's go one at a time. First theme: In the churches you learn that according to the measures yesterday all those who are employees run tests. Everybody. Two tests.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u123	You're not ashamed. Is that what I told you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Giannoulis, I'd be ashamed to say the things you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u125	Be ashamed of the people who have been lost. That's why you're ashamed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u126	The Minister didn't interrupt you when you were talking. Let him finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u127	Listen, Mr. Giannoulis, to learn. Currently there are activities considered necessary and necessary which are considered not necessary. These are decided in a debate with the committees. Why hasn't the pharmacy, the supermarket, the first need? Because they're considered essential. As far as the religious part that refers to all adoring places is concerned, let me say that it is not combined with the tavern and with going and taking shoes. In accordance with the constitutional provision creating the right to religion, the restrictions to be laid down must be made to the extent that they do not create more. So what do we say? We put a mask restriction, we set a distance limitation, we define that those who are inside and work must make rapid test. You on the left must understand that. For constitutional restrictions, do you know when you were talking? When you participated in the marches with Kufontina. Then the pain of the Constitution occurred to you and you said there could be no restrictions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u128	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u129	So you have the constitutional selection of meetings - the S.H.E.L.D. He told you - we tell you that the restrictions that are constitutionally tolerated are coming in. With regard to the rehabilitation centre to which you referred. The "Relief" - you are from Thessaloniki and you should know them - is a center that treats quadruples, tracheostomy patients, people who, after surgery, are going over there and obviously have the whole system and the medical and nursing staff, who puts it there. Two hundred of our fellow citizens suffering from COVID will be driven there. And you said again about Article 9. You're talking about scientists again. Didn't you read Article 9? The scientists' ERC will give an opinion. Mr Katrin, I put the measures myself in committee yesterday. The Committee as a whole has agreed on these measures. From there on, other positions are expressed in the dialogue between scientists. However, with regard to the measures notified yesterday, the committee unanimously agreed that they should be taken. What's the difference, Mr. Catarini? There is no conflict. We are not like the leader of SYRIZA who insulted thirty-three scientists in committee in a way. He requested a joint acceptance committee. Thirty-three people are from the universities. Should I go ask them for a certificate of care? Can I see if Mr. Tsipras accepts them? Thirty-three. The best thing that exists in Greek society in terms of scientists is in this committee. If there's more, say. But why is SYRIZA insulting these thirty-three people and saying that they are not commonly accepted? A year and a half they've been advising us unwindlingly. Their role is the counselor. The Minister of Health and the Government, Mr Katrin, Mr Giannoulis, are not behind any committee. The government is coming, asking the committee to discuss the measures we intend to take, suggests the committee and decides. That doesn't indicate that someone overlaps with each other. Everyone has their role. There was no individual to say that these measures are not correct. So these measures were accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u130	All your dealers have been exploring since this morning. The whole society.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u131	I'm talking about the scientific community, and Mr. Giannoulis says about traders.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u132	Minister, finish it up. I remind you we have another bill. Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u133	I would therefore like to see what you have to say about the measures because I have not listened to you. Is these measures in the right direction and, perhaps, other measures have to be taken, or do you disagree that we put two tests on the invaders? Or are you arguing that they're going to the public service? I didn't hear you. I expect you to take pictures of mushrooms and upload them online, to answer these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u135	Mr Katrin, we are done with the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, I have the right to be a parliamentary representative. I want the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Katrin, I won't. There's no way. The Minister is gone. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u138	Does he say what he wants and he's leaving?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u139	When you get the floor, you'll say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u140	I want the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u141	I'm sorry, are we gonna do this job? Respect the MPs who are waiting two hours now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u142	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u143	You'll say it when you talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u144	I want the Minister to be present, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u145	The Minister must leave. Mr. Pleari, go. I'm telling you. It's over. You're not going to blow me off the meeting. Another bill we're talking about today. We're not discussing the health ministry's bill. When you talk, say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u146	It's embarrassing what you're doing. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u147	We're not gonna have a show here. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before going to the bill, I will also report on what has been said about the privatisation of TRAINOSE. I think that the Minister quite rightly said that it was another thing to have a commitment from the country's commitments and the other way in which this privatization took place. And because I am sure that we will have all the time to discuss these details and to make a comparison during the debate on the ratification of the new TRAINOSE agreement with the Greek State for the barren lines, I think, that we will all really have the opportunity to see how clandestinely this privatisation took place by the SYRIZA - ANEL government and what we then came to fix and of course to deliver to the Greek people. Now, as far as the draft law is concerned, there is a phrase, ladies and gentlemen, which I think is confusing the substance of the draft law we are discussing today. It is the first phrase of the title: 'Guide safely'. If we really want to understand the reasoning, that is to say, to assess with due attention the arrangements it contains, we have only to start from there. I think we will all agree that, when we talk about training candidates, it is not just the acquisition of driving skills, it is mainly the applicant's ability to drive safely for him and for the rest of the road users. Within 30 minutes, i.e. as long as the practical test lasts, the State should be able to understand whether the applicant has the skills but also the traffic treatment to drive, that is, it must be able to identify indirectly the level of the training provided by the trainers and it should be able to assess on objective criteria and the work of the examiners itself. In this light, and let me have a personal time, with this anguish and this responsibility, we started trying two years ago to draw from the draft law when Minister Karamanlis had trusted me with this mission. It is a draft law which has received exhaustive public consultation. I would remind you that he first appeared at the Ministerial Council in January. It was put into public consultation where all the operators were able to table their proposals and I think there was an exhaustive dialogue at committee level. I can say that at least as far as the two basic chapters are concerned, that is, the training and examination of the candidates, but also the one with historical vehicles, it has been accepted universally by all operators, perhaps with an exception to the question of the question of the operator's position, to which I shall refer and to which the Minister referred. The draft law we are discussing today therefore focuses almost exclusively on the organisation of the process of theoretical examination and the practical testing of candidate drivers. The choice wasn't random. The state's responsibility is to carry out proper examinations. The state has the responsibility of producing trained and integers who are aware of their mission, and has the responsibility to continuously evaluate their work with objectivity, it also has the obligation to offer the citizens of that country modern manuals, which cultivate both recognition and awareness of the danger of driving. It also has an obligation to organise a practical test that is very similar to the traffic conditions prevailing on the Greek roads. The Greek state also has an obligation to offer its citizens, regardless of level of education, learning difficulties, hearing difficulties or mobility, appropriate supplies such as manuals, examination centres across the country for disabled people. Finally, it has an obligation to help learn to safely drive the thousands of legal immigrants living and working here, promoting translation of education manuals in their own language. So that is the aim of the provisions which we are debating today in this draft law. Since the creation of a register of examiners and supervisors, the audiovisual recording of the practical test, the production of new manuals aimed at everyone, the creation of private "univers" that will stop the suffering and the bleeding of thousands of our fellow citizens with kinetic problems. And before I said 'nearly exclusively', because there was indeed one, if you wish, objection on the part of operators to an issue that has also been raised in committee as regards the position of the examiner. Of course, many concerns were reasonable, such as the potential financial burden on the candidate, the ability of the examiners to respond to the passenger's role. For many of them, however, I would remind you of the original draft law, namely quite transitional steps in order to move to the new regime in a more smooth manner. However, I would like to dwell on the idea of initial regulation. I am convinced that, in order to achieve the desired level of road safety, we should all, and above all, drive trainers, even more trust the level of training they provide to the candidate driver. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that thirty minutes of practical testing are only those that separate the applicant driver from the driver. In these thirty minutes, therefore, the candidate should be tested, not under 'glass' conditions, but as close as possible to the real conditions, which will be called upon to lead immediately the next day. Real conditions contain driving ability, but also contain stress, alertness, readiness to react to any unforeseen events that may occur during driving. This information must form the main part of the training of a candidate driver. When we first feel insecurity about the candidate driver we bring for testing, then it makes sense for the candidate driver to feel insecurity for himself. Therefore, the true desired result and level of education will be achieved on the day that both the instructor and the candidate will feel safe to lead to any traffic regulations, conditions, regardless of where the instructor is sitting or not. In any case, however, there are no magical solutions. I would like to add that it is very positive that, as the Minister mentioned, there will be very strict and specific sanctions, if it is found that an instructor, during the registration of the procedure, intervenes without real risk. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And I think that political communication, ladies and gentlemen, requires us to present legislation which is directly applicable, while at one time forgetting the saying that 'the devil is hiding in detail'. Today we are discussing a very large section of road safety, part of the national action plan that we presented last February in the presence of Prime Minister Mitsotakis, a section for which a suitable transitional phase is required to be provided for so that it can be implemented properly. That's why we shouldn't rush. In particular, I shall make a reference, and I shall conclude with that, Mr President, to the regulation of vehicles of historical interest. Unfortunately, because of the returning ideological perception of SYRIZA and logic, the whole area was hostaged in previous years, with the reason that the owners of historical vehicles were only the holders and possessors or those with high incomes. I think that by the arrangements which are currently being introduced and expected to be voted on, a liberal framework is being created for the whole of this area, a framework which has been embraced by the overwhelming majority, not to say from the whole, of the bodies involved in the historic vehicle and a framework that ranks us in the pan-European, if not global, forehead. I therefore call on the House to support all this effort which helps not to mourn any of our fellow citizens again on the Greek streets and I think it is in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u149	Mr Dr. Theodoros will now be given the floor from SYRIZA. For three minutes then I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Zacharakis, to present her amendment and we will continue with our colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I grieve and revolt. I find myself indignant when I see responsible ministers such as Mr Karamanlis and Mr Ploris a moment ago, in critical responsibilities, to choose the dogma's tactics 'the best defence is the attack' and instead of taking their responsibilities to the House for any proposal they introduce, attack the Civic Opposition, opposition to the opposition. And I cannot understand, Mr Karamanlis, the intervention of the SYRIZA rapporteur - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Christos Giannoulis, who has built up a step by step and responsiblely noted the crucial issues of the draft law that entered, as to how sufficient they are, how far they are to be implemented, how contradictory and roughly they are, to tell him that this was an unresolved intervention. I will not now talk about powers and all that. I'm sure you have a direct relationship and knowledge and memory. In the 2015 elections, at least in Piraeus, I know the stones, more than thirty major businesses then told their employees that if they vote SYRIZA then, on Monday not to go back to work, they would have lost it. To understand what power it means, Mr. Karamanlis, and how one or the other is chosen. It refers to this draft law in the first sentence 'guiding safely'. Either you remove this phrase, because it is very much under the requirements and has only a communication goal, or you will do it 'driving safely number 1' to follow another ten, twenty bills, if you are slowly able to respond to the huge issue of road safety. Minister, I have been dealing with road safety and I am not talking about personal reasons, before I became a Member for a long time, and as a self-government. And since I have been a Member I have regularly participated in the Committee on Road Safety, with the exception of a break when I had the duties of my ministerial term. The House's Road Safety Committee, the TEI, the Polytechnics, your Ministry's services, although quite bureaucratic, have rich material. Society's on its way now. It's a crime car. This is a huge and serious social and economic problem, which requires sectors, large areas. If those answers were what SYRIZA did, thank you very much. Your Chief, Prime Minister Mitsotakis, said he was taking it upon him at the beginning of his term of office. It is, in Greek reality, for young people up to 30 years old the first cause of death, traffic crimes. The then Minister for Transport, your predecessor, many years ago, of PASOK, in 2009, when I proposed to him here, in this Chamber, to be accepted by the government and by this House, the term'motor crime', accepted it and included it. We insist on that, too. There's no accidental traffic. If you look at it, they are omissions of the state, of the drivers, of the system, of the educational process, too many factors. The committee of Parliament has all the know-how and is lost. And it comes, Mr Kefaliannis, when he was a State Secretary for Road Safety in June 2021, the national road safety action plan, which in 50 years' time leaves the reduction of 50% of deaths and heavy injuries by 2050, while all Europe is talking about 2030 now. We have precisely this huge problem, which requires urgent, comprehensive and collective vigilance of sections, rather than individual regulation. Central matter. Do you, too, have the title "guiding safely" in a bill that comes to regulate certain issues? But you can do it. Please, don't you want me to talk to this particular person? Sure. What actually regulates this bill, which even has in these thirty-five articles, its subject matter, why did the rest not even get into consultation and then be added? Twenty ministerial decisions and a presidential decree. So much maturation now, after all these years and so much study? And what do you come to set up? Training for drivers, knowledge and skills and control, examination. And you cannot take a step in how two institutional functions can be separate and be trustworthy on the basis of rules. You don't do it in this bill. Small, individual, clipboard and contradictory settings make, using technology, of course, cameras, and one, and the other. It's very behind the needs, Minister, this thing. On the subject you want to regulate, will we discuss how education is done and how is the examination carried out? And not to be recruited by police and porters to make the supervisors. Is that possible? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not go any further, Mr President, because we have four - five bills on this, but please go ahead and accept Mrs Helena Koundoura's suggestion, which was almost unanimously accepted in the European Parliament, and has opened roads in the European road safety debate. Take a series of other things too. And something special, which concerns me very much, since there are arrangements for OSE and TRAINOSE and others: the Museum of Trains in Lefkas, Piraeus, which has finally been carried out by our government with the help of friends of the Train, the Polytechnics, the self-government, you have abandoned it. Will you upgrade it? I conclude, Mr President, with the amendment - adding SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance with the first proposing and signed by Bulgaria, Mrs Theanos Fotio, 1122/31, on the solidarity of the OPEK for school meals. Mrs Fotou and the SYRIZA government had set up a very serious process to deal with school meals and cover when you were talking about piles at the time. You abandoned it and when you discovered your usual practice to find social allies, strong economic operators, you did a photo contest that the Court of Auditors rejected. And instead of having yourself declared the contest again and proceeded, you are trying, by way of derogation from the legislation, to find solutions directly once again. We are also giving you a legitimate amendment, a thorough and concise one, to resolve the problem until the competitive process is completed and the children are not really left without school meals. It is a matter of great importance, both in terms of accuracy and of all of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Dritsa, I can't show any more tolerance, finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u152	I'm done, but let me do this. And finally, in the matter of pandemic, the world is being vaccinated and with the third dose, SYRIZA is buzzing it. And those who haven't been vaccinated. But this needs a government of confidence and not a government that runs behind events stressfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, I would like to speak. There has been a personal reference and under the Rules of Procedure I have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Kefaliannis, please. We're not doing this job. I'm sorry, there's a parliamentary representative who can answer. I'm not doing this job. You have no right. I judge there's a personal matter, if you're going there. First of all, I have spoken to Mrs Zacharakis. And finally find out the right procedure in this Chamber, everyone and you've had it. Noms we can finish at 7 p.m. We get to 20 p.m. because of these things!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u155	This is four bills, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Drizza, I'm taking it elsewhere. You're the other one. Now, you see, we've lost an hour today. Well, Mrs Zacharakis, from your position for three minutes for your amendment you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u157	Perhaps sooner or later, Mr President, because I see that there is a procedure in this House today which requires us to be shorter. We are proposing to extend COVID hotels leases. I know that there is also a constant issue in your regions in hotels that acted as rented hotels in COVID. It was until October 31st. There is an extension of up to 31-12 because it obviously ends the financial year. What do we gain from this amendment? First of all the extension and people are likely to be able to - hideous, but it can happen - a case of COVID being able to continue to stay at these hotels. Secondly, new contracts may be concluded, if necessary, by the end of the year. It is important, we are talking about new destinations, we keep talking about a tourism that will last all year round. It is desirable for our country to be able to claim the place it deserves in this part as well. So this has to be done safely. We are therefore talking about hotels which can be re-contracted COVID, of course, in the budget of the Ministry of Tourism. Of course, it is ensured that COVID hotels can continue to accommodate the resident who can be affected until the end of the quarantine obligation. That is the amendment, Mr President, and we ask all parties to vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u158	And I think she's very good too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u159	Mr. President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Giannoulis, you have a second. Mr. Kefaliannis, here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u161	Not a minute, ten seconds. To correct the Minutes, Dritsa referred to the Road Safety Committee with a view to reducing road accidents by 50% by 2050. The right thing is until 2030. That's the target, Mr. Dritsa, his 50% reduction. I'm sorry about the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u162	Take back the "I'm sorry" and put the mask back on. What can we do? You don't sound well, but you don't have a "excuse" and no mask. Here, Hatzidakis is in front. Slowly you'll sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u163	To correct what Mr Dritsa referred to in the Committee on Road Safety. I said, therefore, that the national objective is by 2030 the reduction by 50%, not by 2050, and by 2050 it is the elimination of the victims of traffic accidents. This is just to restore the truth in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u164	Good. Well, we're moving on now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, may I have the floor for staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Dritsa, let us move on. He didn't have a personal character. Mr Koumoutsaskos has the floor, then Mrs Fotou, Mr Tsavdaridis, Mr Lambropoulos and Mrs Dounia Voula. I'm calling the following five. Here, Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u167	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the last two tragic road accidents have deprived two young people of their lives. The pain and grief they have caused, but also the great interest of public opinion, give this debate not only topicality but also seriousness and particular gravity. In our country, ladies and gentlemen, two people die every day on the road, while two others are seriously injured. In 2020, the deaths of road accidents were five hundred seventy nine and our seriously injured four hundred eighty-seven fellow citizens. In fact, the figures for specific road user groups show that in 2019, more than half of the deaths of road users in Greece correspond - and please take care of this - to vulnerable users of the network, i.e. pedestrians, cyclists and motorcycles. Speaking specifically of these groups, we know very well that since the start of COVID we have had a great deal of increase in the area of the provision of postal and distribution services, with a large proportion of these distributors using motorcycles or motorcycles to provide services. This is obvious, that it strengthens the possibility of further increasing accidents and accidents, with slight or heavy injuries and road deaths especially of this group. Since 2017 we have fifty similar traffic accidents on motorcycle distributors, such as this tragedy of Thessaloniki a few days ago. You will allow me to mention that I have tabled a timely question to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, although I hope, Minister, that this matter will be covered by today's debate and that the timely question will not be needed. According to ELSTAT's provisional data, in the first seven months of this year we have an increase of 15% in road traffic accidents, an increase of 16% in wounded and a reduction in death. The image is not encouraging, but there is a positive aspect. Over a decade, Greece has managed to be the only member of the European Union that exceeded the European goal of reducing by 50% the deaths of road accidents - understood on its territory - with a rate of reduction in Greece of 54% in deaths and 63% in severely injured. Compared with the objectives set by the European Union, this is undoubtedly a positive development. However, the real picture is that traffic continues to be a scourge, as Greece still owns one of the lowest places in the European Union in the percentages of traffic deaths. For all the reasons I mentioned before, Minister, the draft law 'Guiding safely' is extremely important but also timely. It is part of the comprehensive draft of the government and the Prime Minister's original commitment to road safety in our country. To a large extent, there is a continuation of Law 4784/2021 on Sustainable Urban Mobility and Small Mobility, as well as other provisions on security in the distribution and transport of goods and articles under Law 4611/2019. The draft law currently being discussed by the National Representation has a number of undeniable positive elements. It upgrades the training of candidate drivers so that they are better prepared since they get their driver's licence and start running on the streets. It ensures to a large extent that the procedure for examining and evaluating the candidates is in place, that it strengthens transparency and that it is against the corruption phenomena, which we all know very well that it is a timeless problem, which the Greek state has finally decided to tackle radically and effectively. Finally, it strengthens safe driving and promotes road safety through innovative practices. The bill improves the failures of Law 4599/2019, brought by the previous government, a law which, in our view, proved and inapplicable and created more problems than it had attempted to regulate. The draft law interferes with a number of issues that had to be regulated, such as, above all, comprehensive research into disabled people and special categories of candidates, a secondary but still existential issue, such as the traffic regime for historical cars and various other public administration issues. Ladies and gentlemen - I will close with this - in this very broad, but also at the same time targeted draft law, I would like to focus on just two points: the use of digital means and new technologies and the upgrading of education. As far as the first one is concerned, the provision for a pilot application of a digital driver's licence is concerned, I do not think anyone disagrees that it is in the right direction. Furthermore, no-one can disagree that it is a very positive step to create the Integrated Driving Information System to handle and support all procedures related to driving licence and certificate of professional competence. Both contribute, on the one hand, to the digitisation of public administration, which is a constant demand, but, above all, improve the services provided by the State to the citizens. I will insist on the question of education, which was mentioned by the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Papadopoulos, in the committee, in the need not only of better education for the candidates, which the draft law provides through targeted arrangements and interventions, but also of total traffic education, which must be included in the curriculum of school education in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. It is something that, Minister, I think you should take a serious look at and make progress in this direction. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I'm hanging up, ladies and gentlemen. Road safety does not only require a better road network or only better and younger vehicles. It calls, in fact, for better trained, trained and responsible drivers, responsible pedestrians and cyclists, who respect the Road Traffic Code. Road safety is not a secondary issue. It is a major issue, which concerns us all. Road behaviour affects society as a whole and above all, it is a matter of education. Our bet "all back, at home safe and healthy, for us and our children". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Minister. I will apologise to Mrs Fotiou, to give Mrs Alexopoulou the floor from the Greek Solution, which was before and by omission, her name was not called. Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the draft law of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, which I do not see fit to have any central meaning and substance, I would like to say a few words about our fellow citizens with disabilities and mobility problems. Accessibility everywhere is an inalienable right of everyone and this is achieved by driving vehicles. That is why people with disabilities must first have the favor of the state. The Greek Solution in its programme is the only party that explicitly provides for a strategic plan for the movement of small and medium-sized enterprises, including the purchase or donation of transport vehicles for few and many disabled persons and their escorts, of course. Unfortunately, we are the only ones who predict something similar from all the political forces. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about driving people with disabilities, and very rightly, of course. But let's just go a little bit. Let's look at the subject more globally. There is a general problem for people with disabilities in terms of their movements. Do you know why this is happening? Because neither the infrastructure of our towns is appropriate, but neither is there a proper culture about the movements of these people from everyone else. How many and many times, for example, we don't see a taxi stop on the road taking people on a stroller. Not to mention, of course, their treatment with mass transport, which is the least unacceptable. It is not, ladies and gentlemen, ironic to talk about driving people with disabilities, but at the same time, our general infrastructure, but also the attitude of many, is completely wrong. I do not want to say, of course, that there are no exceptions. And right taxi drivers exist that help the LEAD and right passengers who give their partner a hand of solidarity with motor difficulties. However, we need to create infrastructure, but also the education of citizens, so that we can actually talk about rights for small and medium-sized enterprises on roads, sidewalks and in general on their moves. Another topic is the calls that are being cut into people who carry an AMP to a doctor. Why don't we do something simple? Let a special section be created to communicate and inform the patient that he will be transferred to the ‘X’ doctor the ‘C’ vehicle driver. Therefore, it should be made known that this vehicle goes there for health reasons of a disabled person, so that it will not be called off for specific roads and squares of the surrounding area and it will also pay off from above. I think it's a shame. In fact, isn't it a pity, ladies and gentlemen, that these things happen? With what I am proposing, I believe that a time-consuming problem is solved and should not be the case. Let me say at this point that very recently - with the date of 18 October 2021 - we tabled to the Minister of Finance a question to the Minister on 'no exemption from registration fees and registration fees for motor vehicles'. I wonder what the precise regime is, which governs the exemption from these fees. Is it about the minors' children or the vehicle itself? If children do not have the right to buy a new vehicle or guardian instead of a new vehicle, then in this case the family budget is extremely burdened. You know, in these families, money doesn't exist or they just don't exist, to say a phrase very timely at this time. How, then, will a child with motor problems move? How will he go somewhere he wants, if there's no special vehicle that serves this and his family? Are we going to rule out it at home, because the state does not provide a self-evident person at the bottom - down for a civilized modern society right? Where is the famous care for people with disabilities, especially children. I say this, not to make cheap opposition, but as examples taken out of true life. Of course, they also apply to the previous governments, who have never taken these matters seriously. In closing, I have a proposal on them. Why not lower the disability rate for the vehicle-benefited SMEs? Should we not include all those people with disabilities, who really have a huge need, down the line that is too high? So these people don't have much of a problem with their movements? So let us also look at this major issue. Let them lower the limits of disability rates, so that people with disabilities may also have the right to a vehicle that serves them. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mrs. Fotou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Madam President. I shall speak exclusively about the amendment the government brings to school meals. It is of major importance. We are asking for it to be withdrawn, because the procedure it proposes is not legitimate, as I will explain. On the other hand, it is legitimate that the amendment tabled by SYRIZA Members under number 1122/31 is the only legal solution to give school meals this year and not to enter new cancellation adventures. What's the problem? The Court of Auditors of the State annulled 20 days ago, on October 13, a school meal contest of 253,5 million for three years opened by the Ministry of Labour through OPEKA since April 2021. This means that the competition must be reopened. As you can see, this process lasts six months, so until May, children will not be able to take school meals. The Court of Auditors' rejection is the first time in the history of school meals. Each year the competition was successfully repeated. This was the first time. Why was it cancelled? For the first time, the term ‘carmaniola’ was included in the declaration, which favoured large-scale concentrators at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises, with the result that most of the contracts were awarded to less than five contractors. I shall table in the minutes the Court of Auditors' decision. In simple terms, three companies received about 127 million from the 253,5 million. What was the term 'carnilla', which excluded small and medium-sized enterprises? Inspiration: Candidate companies, in order to prove their solvency, had to have carried out in the last two years a corresponding single work on hot meals with a fee equal to 80% of the work they claimed. To keep you from confusing, I'll get an example. So let's say, a company claims the school meals of the Municipality of Patras of 3 million in this competition. It should already have made meals in a single contract, not cumulative, over the past two years, amounting to 2.4 million. Is there more photographic? Is there? Three companies, therefore, received 127 million from 253. It is obvious that this new term 'carmaniola' was not an OPEKA initiative, which has been taking on the same terms every year, but someone intervened, the leadership of the Ministry of Labour, that is, the Minister and the Deputy Minister, to do two things: it tripled the budget, of course, giving the next three years meals and, at the same time, set the term 'carmilliola'. Of course, they were caught with the back grazing by the Court of Auditors and here we are. The story now is we don't have meals. What are we now asking for with the amendment that we are bringing? To cover the period until the new competition is completed - rightly - until May - that is from January to May - because by January they will be negotiating. So time's gone now, until January. From January to May to May to cover the time by another process. That is the amendment. Who? Negotiating. So, what do we want them to do? Call the companies that participated in the pre-critical competition and negotiate straight to share their meals until the new proper competition is finished, which will end in May. However, the procedure is perforated and will be annulled in a future action, because large companies will still be favoured, since those who did not meet the term 'carmonials' have been excluded. I mean, he's gonna do the deal with them. He's not bringing any more. Secondly, because in order to do so, they put us in Parliament, to vote on something that is not lawful. What do I mean? That is why the amendment, because it invokes Article 32 of Law No 4412/2015, the law of SYRIZA, which was introduced to put an end to the illegal awards of public works and services, to scandals, but where it is foreseen that you do not go in this open tender procedure since you go to open negotiations, if there are certain reasons. What's he saying? In other words, there is an urgent need as a result of events unforeseen by the contracting authority, by the Ministry of Labour, which makes it impossible to keep dates and the urgent need not to arise, does not result from the responsibility of the contracting authority, i.e. from the Ministry. Excuse me. The Ministry did the job all the time. All these grounds they refer to are void, all three. Therefore, we are told to illegally all together under the tampering that school meals will not be distributed to children this year. We are proposing an amendment. Until the new competition is completed, firstly, school meals in the interim period, i.e. from January to May, will be awarded by those companies that had legally taken over them in the school year 2020-202, with a legal tender made by the New Democracy, last year's competition, to extend, in other words, the contract and with the same unit price, to include additional schools if necessary - because you have set up more than 10 million - and thus to make this equal distribution. We are talking about a cost of about 10 million more than that of the competition. You are now withdrawing the amendment, which is in danger of creating new cancellation adventures, and bring immediately this week a new amendment with the only legal solution that we are proposing: the new tender you are going to open under the same conditions as the OPEKA has so far implemented. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One minute I will still need to thank you, Madam President. We invite you to do him for a year, not for three: first, because we do not know if you will be in the government. Secondly, because we have promised by election that we will give 2023-2024 six hundred thousand meals a day. We will cover all the children, that is, not two hundred ten, as you wish to commit us by 2024. Mr. Ministers, your school meals have been on the stomach all along. You've been mocking 'em as a pile. We didn't just make it for the poor children, but for all the primary school children. It is against obesity based on the Mediterranean diet designed by Greek universities. I hear you're going to change the menu and I'm shaking, because I understand that they're going to get into the history of NGOs and private companies to change the menu. They're of a pedagogical value. That's why they embraced all the leaders of the Ministry of Education on SYRIZA, Nikos Friend, Merope Jufi, Costas Gavroglou. They liberate women from daily care, strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises and local markets, supplying fresh products. Today, since accuracy affects all households, school meals are more necessary than ever. Today, where poverty strikes the door of middle-grade children, you must give all children of the city six hundred thousand meals a day, as SYRIZA has promised. And irony. Do you know what the cost is? The 253.5 million. That's the cost of six hundred thousand. In other words, what you have gone to distribute to the "logues" with this illegality. So withdraw the amendment now. I'm making the decision. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theano Fotio, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u172	Thank you too, my colleague. Now Mr Tsavdaridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in our country over the last fifty years there has been a genocide with more than a hundred and twenty thousand dead and over three hundred and fifty thousand disabled, due to road accidents, which, unfortunately, are the first cause of death at the age of eighteen to forty-four years. If this is not a good reason to create a modern and effective framework since yesterday, which will improve citizens' driving behaviour, so that when we hold the steering wheel of our car or motorcycle, this is a tool and not a weapon, then I cannot imagine what other reason it would be enough. In the last two years there has been a marked decrease in deaths by 16%, according to EUROSTAT's figures, with a record of fifty-four deaths per million people, but yet we still have a long way to go, to talk about driving education as a whole in the country, which will guarantee security and an example of imitation. That is why the New Democracy Government, in faithfully respecting one of the first priorities of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, proposes the issue of road safety as the dominant issue and introduces a bill to Parliament, which focuses on the creation of better drivers. The main aim of this draft law is to ensure dignity and credibility, as well as to eliminate corruption in the examination process, which was a carcinoma for many years and contributed to obtaining a diploma for young drivers without the necessary preparation and with incomplete driving knowledge, who eventually came out uncontrolled on the streets with all the risks that this entailed for themselves, for their fellow passengers, but also for the community as a whole. How deep was that carcinoma? According to a study by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport itself, which saw the light of publicity in 2017, the illegal curriculum from the action of driving licences exceeded 120m euros, while the success rate in already computerized theoretical tests, which was about 50%, in practice reached 75% for the city of Athens and climbed up to 95% in some provincial cities. That is precisely the possibility of opacity, corruption and money laundering. To this end, the previous legislative framework on governance SYRIZA did not help mainly because of provisions that, despite good intentions, were in fact inapplicable, ultimately creating more problems than was supposed to be solved, such as the camera device rejected by the Personal Character Protection Authority and which led to a peculiar hostage of more than a hundred and fifty thousand candidates, who were unable to give examinations at the time, until we, as a new government, restored the old system of examination of candidates to unblock this problematic situation. The present draft law, however, comes to shield the inconsistency of the procedure and the reliability of the examinations with a four-story set-up. First, with the installation of a camera belonging to the Ministry, the vehicle during the examination, which is so well thought out, formulated and having all the necessary safeguards, which have already received the written consent of the Privacy Authority. Secondly, by extending the body of examiners with certified civil servants, in order, on the one hand, to permanently break the circuits which plunge the space and, on the other, to speed up the examination process. Thirdly, with the establishment of the supervisor's institution, consisting of members of the Greek Police, after special training and who either supervise the relevant procedure through the vehicle or intervene where and when there are suspicions of irregularities or illegality in an examination centre. And fourthly, with the possibility of changing the position of the instructor during the examination procedure in the rear seat of the vehicle, in order to exclude any theoretical or incomplete ability to intervene in favour of the person concerned. The basic philosophy of this draft law, however, is not just exhausted in them. It is the government's decision to show practical confidence in the new system, trainers and examiners both through the introduction of the possibility of examining for seventeen years and through the introduction of the possibility of obtaining a temporary leave for seventeen years, provided that they have been accompanied by an experienced driver, according to the standards of other European countries in which the system has worked with great success. The Government of New Democracy does not listen to the rhythm of youth, only in words and slogans, but it is here to facilitate its everyday life and speed up its integration into the socio-economic life of the country, always with necessary conditions to individual responsibility, but also to expand driving education and to our schools, which is another central objective for us. Ladies and gentlemen, the maximum majority of the bodies have pointed out that the draft law we are debating today is extremely important. The Civic Opposition itself has shown modesty, but has insisted on the poverty of political vision, to vote in favour of the relevant committees and has insisted on offering fertile suggestions in plenary, as it generally presupposes being actively involved in the titanic struggle that the Government of the New Democracy gives for Greece of the new era. This legislation, however, cannot stand any reservations. It is a piece of legislation of life and social respect, which concerns the everyday life of all of us, apart from party housing, a piece of legislation that I hope will have the overall positive vote, as it deserves and as it deserves our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Lambropoulos has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Madam President. I shall be on the amendment from the Ministry of Infrastructure on the Patras - Tower - Good Water - Chacona. This road is a major project for all of Western Greece. It is a road axis that will start from Kalamata and end up in Ioannina. We can imagine, we want, we try, we press, we fight the politicians - I personally have given a great fight - and the players to make this big road. I think when a road starts from Kalamata, it goes through the Good Water, the Tower - not naturally through Megalopolis and Andritsina - and ends up in Patras and Ioannina, when some maritime line from Crete to Kalamata, which will come all the goods and goods with trucks in Kalamata from there to Patras and directly to European markets, how good it will be and how good it will be to dismantle Piraeus, Attica Road and the Athens-Patra road. It will be a major task that we all want, we all expect it for the development of all western Greece. So this work began and hoped that it would be done in 2007 with the ratification of the convention in the House then by the then Minister of Georgios Souflias, whom we must all mention, because it has laid the basis for all the major projects that have been carried out in our country. He incorporated it into the concession contract Elefsina - Corinth - Patras - Tower - Chacona - Good Water. In 2013, due to the economic crisis in the Parliament with L.4219/2013, the part was answered and excluded from the section from Patras, the Tower, Tsakona. Many attempts have been made and many mistakes have been made. While it was to be auctioned from Patras to the Tower in March 2015, the new government announced with the well-known pasture contractor and fragmented this department in eight places, so that it would not go any further and that nothing would happen. Result? People are killed every day and blood is poured into the asphalt. The new government, our government when Minister Costas Karamanlis personally came along, began the procedures and made the efforts that we had to do and we are already on a good path. This department will soon start to build. Today, with this amendment which is coming and which we all have to vote on, the section of Patras - Tower - Good Water - Chacona is part of the concession agreement. So we have the great hope now, through the concession agreement - because there is no other way of financing this great project - since it will begin - and it has signed the section from Patras to the Tower from the European Commission, as we heard the Minister confirm - immediately after the debates to join and start the rest of the section, from the Tower to Tsakon. I say from the Tower to Tsakona, because there is, as is well known, a decision by the Council of State, which is causing problems. And there we will see, to make any interventions in the few kilometers of the Kaiafa region. But, for the whole other part, from the Tower to Chacona, we hope that a good start has been made today. It is a good start, a good time to build the road, and we thank the Minister and the government and the Prime Minister who are aware of the problem and want the road to be made. All together, we believe that with rapid procedures we will be resorting to the European Commission to have new approval for the 'Tower - Good Water - Chacona' section. We won't rest, we won't rest, we'll watch. We all want - we do not retreat - to do this part. We want to see the vision taking place to have a road axis from Kalamata to Yannina, which will change all western Greece, which will develop all western Greece. We expect the Minister to move forward quickly and give us a specific timetable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u176	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Dunia has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that road safety is an indicator of a country's culture. Her residents and visitors must feel and be safe on her streets. In Greece, unfortunately, we cannot say that this is happening. It is for this reason that many factors, concerning our road network, do not apply the traffic rules, of course, to the lack of the necessary road training of drivers. These factors have brought Greece into the illusion of having one of the greatest road fatalities indicators at European level. For some age categories, in particular our new fellow citizens, traffic is the first cause of mortality. Apart from the many "necessary" deaths in asphalt, however, it is not very small and the cases of serious injuries or disability provoke with disastrous psychological, social and economic consequences for the victims of the roads and their families. This tragic situation needs to be changed. Personally, as a mother of two adolescents, I have been very interested in issues of road safety, which, unfortunately, have been illegal for many years in our country. That is why I am very pleased that the government has taken the road safety issue so warmly and is trying to improve it on the basis of an integrated programme. The draft law we are debating today is simply a chapter in this coherent plan. The title of the draft law “Driving safely” is only accidental. It focuses precisely on the substance, which is no other than ensuring the proper training of the candidate drivers and the transparent determination of their ability to drive. It comes, in other words, to put an end to the corruption phenomena that have existed for many years in the process of obtaining a driving licence and are a little well-known to all of us. But let us see how it attempts to ensure that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport's bill is incomplete. First of all, according to the new framework for training and examination of candidate drivers, the theoretical test is updated and strictly controlled. Along with the questions of multiple selection, case studies are provided by a bank of topics, set up and operated at the Ministry of Infrastructure, and during the theoretical examination of the candidates there is a sample of the identity of the persons examined. Then, in the practical piece, the examination procedure of the candidate driver in the vehicle will be recorded by a camera of the Ministry. This measure is true that we have heard it before. The difference from an earlier analogue and unsuccessful attempt to apply it from today's Civic Opposition is that the New Democracy Government has secured the written consent of the Personal Character Protection Authority, since this provision is well thought out, very carefully formulated and, above all, respects personal data, so it can work in practice. The material resulting from the camera shall be stored and maintained for a reasonable period of six months. In this period the material can be examined either on a sample or if a complaint is made. Its main utility, of course, is to do if a new driver is causing an accident. The recorded audiovisual material will then be examined to determine whether there has been an irregularity during its examination. Another way in which we are trying to increase the reliability of driving tests is by broadening the Examination Body. Henceforth, any civil servant who wishes to do so will be able to become an examiner after, of course, the education and certification concerned. In this way, on the one hand, it opens up a closed so far - let me speak - a scale, that of the examiners, and on the other hand, the examinations will be carried out at a faster pace, due to the multitude of examiners. In addition to this, however, another safety net is placed in the examinations for the driving licence by creating the supervisor's institution during the practical examination of the candidate drivers. Supervisors will be able to become those members of the Greek Police after, of course, special education and certification. Their role will be no more than supervising the procedure either by sampling or by suspecting in an examination centre that irregularities occur. By ensuring that the tests are no longer incomprehensible, it is certain that we will feel, ladies and gentlemen, greater confidence in the new drivers. In fact, this seems to be the case with this draft law, not only for the examination of a diploma in seventeen years, but also for the possibility of obtaining a temporary leave for seventeen years. The latter will be able to drive normally, provided that they have a driver of at least twenty-five years of age who has a driving licence issued at least five years ago. This measure has also been implemented in other countries of the European Union with great success. Finally, it is of particular importance to me that, for the first time in the bill under discussion, proper care is taken for people with disabilities who wish to receive the driving licence. This provides for specific training, the provision of questionnaires and the existence of interpreters for deaf people, as well as the possibility of providing a special report by competent state structures, where necessary. At the same time, for the practical training of applicants with disabilities, it is planned to assess their driving capacity and prepare them by public or private training centres. Finally, those who do not speak Greek and stay in our country are offered the choice of examination in a different language. Ladies and gentlemen, as perceived by the draft legislation, the procedures for the theoretical examination and testing of candidate drivers are changing radically, reconstructing the existing examination mechanism. This overall reform makes the most of technology, takes full care of candidate drivers with special educational needs and upgrades the training provided to the new drivers, substantially strengthening our road safety. This is another step in strengthening this sensitive area, in which the Prime Minister shows us in practice an absolute priority. That is why, over the last two years in our country, there has been a 16% reduction in road deaths, according to the data from EUROSTAT. In particular, fifty-four deaths per million people have been recorded, which has helped achieve the European goal of reducing deaths by 50% over the past decade. We must all support this important effort by the Government to promote road safety in our country and put our port in the form of a strong road consciousness for all Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u178	Thank you too, my colleague. Mrs Vaguea has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin today's speech with a reference to the current situation in the two public hospitals in my country, Larissa, the General Hospital and the University. Yesterday a doctor at Larissa General Hospital, Clinic COVID's head Mr. Yiannis Gambrani, collapsed in front of the cameras. This is the image of the ESS, a collapsed ESS. And I am addressing the Minister of Health, Mr. Plearis, and I say to him that it is shameful yesterday that the New Democracy Government has shielded the National Health System. For twenty months that the pandemic has been holding, all New Democracy has shielded is its preparation to give it to private individuals. The bill now. Obviously no one will disagree that the state must face road safety as a top priority, since the blood tax on asphalt in our country is unfortunately too heavy but too heavy. As our rapporteur, Mr Giannoulis, has already pointed out, this draft law on road safety does not only succeed in giving solutions to the major problems of driver education and examination, but also perpetuates the diseases of the system in force to date. I'm going to stand by some points, for example. In Article 4, enter the test driving for successful drivers from seventeen years with an escort. Good. We agree that this is a positive provision. But you have ignored the most important aspect, which is the issue, namely the effective education of candidates from school age, the creation of bases for real education on road safety, a change of attitude. This is the essence and root of the problem and this part you have completely ignored. Let me borrow and repeat a quote from the post at the hearing of the bodies in the committee on the draft law of the Board of Directors of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Trainers of Transportation, Mr. Aristides Painting, which I found excellent. So he says, "If we want to produce traffic intelligence in this country, we need a course of traffic education - we call it thirty years now - to set up as a major lesson, with tests throughout the compulsory education process, in primary, high school and high school. To teach our children the city, to teach our children how to walk, to oriented, to teach our children how to bicycle and travel by public transport. That's for us the bet on tomorrow. It is also disappointing that the bill brings with it superficial and not structural changes in the theoretical education and examination of the candidates. In simple terms, we do not see any change that will help the candidates to stop snatching the answers without having really understood their content." I will conclude with an issue that does not concern the contents of the bill. However, it is very relevant, as it concerns road safety itself. The Minister tells us that the central aim of this piece of legislation is to put a brake on the phenomena of corruption. I wish, Minister, but I think something has gotten you out of here. I am referring - or rather I am coming back - to an issue on which forty-three Members of the SYRIZA have asked for clarifications with a question we tabled on 4-11-2020, but we have not received a reply yet. This is another Mitsotakis government scandal. I am referring to the illegality, in accordance with Council Decision 909 of 2007, and according to KYA 46526/20, but also to the repeated assurances of the former Deputy Minister of Interior, Theodoros Lebanon, adverts in the context of bulk buses which are perpendicular to the axis of the road and to the traffic of vehicles. These advertisements are illegal for the simple reason that they are in the direct field of drivers' vision and are therefore a cause for dispersal of their attention, with all that entails for the safety of their own and those around them. But after the EYA was published 46526/20 Athens was still, like other cities in Greece and still full of these very illegal and dangerous ads at the bus stops. We then asked Mr Livianio in the Committee on Road Safety how this is done and told us whether the provision in question in the CSCE is controversial, as the Pan-Hellenic SOS Rail Crimes Association pointed out in a statement. So, Mr Lebanon assured us, on 23-9-20, that the signs are illegal, indeed, and that for the municipality of Athenians - who was still full of them - he told us self-evident that no signs have been adapted to the new CIS. As soon as the framework is completed, to avoid pluralism, a statement will come out. Only instead of the clarification statement - and just a week later on 30-9-20 - at the 25th special session of the municipal council of Athens, the mayor's recommendation was approved, with which five hundred advertising signs were already placed. Understand? All advertising channels at the bus stops in the center of Athens are marked by POLITIS GROUP, which is allegedly active exclusively in Attica and which was sponsored by the COVID 19 information campaign with a total of 245,000 euros. Well, something's rotten in your kingdom and it stinks too much. The company "POLITIS GROUP", the great sponsor of the municipality of Athens, who takes it from the list of Petsa, which has thirty subsidiaries and if there is any accident and goes to the courts, closes one subsidiary and is not running anything, has in collaboration with the municipality of Athenians traded the public space in a way which is abusive and illegal, endangering the security and integrity of citizens. And that's not a risk, it's a reality. Go unleash all these illegal and dangerous signs and then get the seventeen-year-olds on the streets to drive. Because you have not made sure that the roads have the minimum safety standards. You have not even made sure that the municipality of Athens complies with the laws you are adopting, because the interests at stake are enormous. And then we'll talk about road safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u180	Thank you too, my colleague. The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Kerameus, has the floor to put him on Amendment No 1117. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Madam President. I apologise to colleagues. I'll be very brief. An amendment by the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs has been tabled which provides, among other things, for further opportunities for school staff in the case of issues relating to COVID, the dispersion of the coronary, such as those of sick teachers. In other words, the possibilities already available are widened. There are also some arrangements concerning applications for transfer of teachers. Finally, for reasons related to the coronary, universities are given the opportunity to extend further cleaning, disinfection and storage contracts. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u182	Thank you too, Minister. Now Mr Baraliacos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Madam President. Before I begin my position on the bill of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, I would also like to express my warmest condolences to the relatives of Fofi Gennamata for their loss, as well as to her partners in KINAL. Let the soil cover it be light. Madam President and Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill becomes a special burden to me personally, both as a member of the Special Committee on Road Safety and on a more personal level as a driver, as a pedestrian, as a parent and as a citizen with a social conscience. It is our collective duty to safeguard human life in every way and at every level and to guarantee the safety of citizens. The Greek roads are not, clearly, an exception to this rule, how much more so when our homeland pays annually a heavy blood tax on asphalt and unfortunately most of the time these accidents involve young people eighteen to forty-five years old, our fellow people who are the power, the breath and the prospect of our country. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has set road safety as a priority from the outset, so that we do not mourn other victims of asphalt. I would therefore like to congratulate the leadership of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, which dares and promotes changes, always in the light of the safety of the citizen. So where are we aiming at with this bill? At first level, the aim is to upgrade the preparation and training of the new drivers who will take the wheel in their hands tomorrow. In addition to modernising the educational material and the test procedure, a system for monitoring and supervising procedures will now be in place with the evaluation of examiners. At the same time, this new bill becomes more inclusive by providing for special theoretical preparation for our teams of fellow citizens who have not completed compulsory education, but also for people with special educational needs, using educational material in a digital format that is adapted to them. On the other hand, it provides for the use of the questionnaires of theoretical examinations in sign language, in Greek using acoustics with sound, but also in other languages than the Greek, in response to the needs of the time. Such forecasts also exist for the examination process using specific methods and modern means. Private competence assessment and driving preparation centres are still being established for the better service of people with motor problems, which until now have been forced to go from all over Greece to Athens. On a second level, we are called upon to step on the phenomena of corruption and diabeticness in the procedures for examining and obtaining a driving licence. We are pressing the brake on unfair practices with our weapons of transparency. The auditing of the theoretical examinations by establishing a two-stage identity check using electronic means and digital credentials through the single digital portal of the public administration, known to all of us as "Gov.gr". Furthermore, there will now be clear information to the candidates using audiovisual material on the banning of the use of mobile phones, headphones or any other electronic communication device which will allow them to obtain irregularly in the examinations. The practical test, in accordance with the Personal Character Protection Authority’s guidelines, shall be recorded using cameras, and this material shall be used in the event of an accident report not exceeding six months after the commencement of the practical examination. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to be more specific about the need for the changes that are being promoted by this bill, I will give you some information from Pieria, from my place of origin, whose analysis demonstrates the effectiveness of the system so far. According to official figures, in the first tenth of 2021 in Pieria there were seven hundred six accidents involving only material damage. Unfortunately, there have been nineteen others which have led to injury in four of the cases of gravity and, unfortunately, in the death of one of our fellow citizens. Looking at the causes that led to the specific accidents where our fellow citizens were injured or lost their lives, 27% of them relate to a priority breach and a significant proportion, of 37%, had the cause of driving under the influence of drunkenness. It is therefore clear that we are dealing with an important issue at the level of road education and education, always in connection with our individual and social responsibility. The purpose of this draft law is to reform the framework governing education, but also to examine the candidate guides, in a holistic and coherent way, all the factors contributing to the resolution of corruption and the opacity of the examination system and, by extension, the end of the circulation of unsatisfactoryly trained drivers, through a series of key interventions and measures aimed at the source of those who are the source of heavy physical damage, but also the loss of our loved ones over time. The orientation of this draft law should bring together parliamentary unanimity and political consensus on an issue that has for many years been blackened with incalculable consequences the lives of thousands of our fellow citizens and especially young people, leaving an indelible mark on their families. Unfortunately, one of them is mine. Today's decision is a decision of responsibility and consciousness to society as a whole and to the future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, too. Mr Villardos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Greek Solution, has the floor now. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Madam President. In an introduction, with regard to the Health Ministry's amendment that we were not allowed to ask for clarification - literally, the President kicked him out - if we understood well, we would firstly sell endless vaccines in some countries which did not specify them and, secondly, the European Union forced us to buy them, so we would have to pay them, despite the shameful speculation of the German company selling them with 50% net profit and would only gain in 2021 from the vaccines of EUR 12 billion. We are only talking about 12 billion euros from one product! Starting now briefly on driving licences, the problem with the examinations had begun on SYRIZA, finally leading to the process being involved because of the staff's reaction to the payment of allowances, as we will submit to the Minutes all together. This bill attempts to decommission and modernise the process by using digital methods, and there are some other differences in the examination, such as the change of position of the examiner. Really, is that how problems will be solved? Is the additional allowances sufficient to examine the EUR 50 at EUR 300 monthly, the supervisors at a total of EUR 250 and the President EUR 250, as well as the members of the Committee of Supervisors and Objections of the examinations? However, the burden, according to the General Accounting Office of the State, is EUR 580,000 per year for the allowances and about EUR 450,000 for the logistics infrastructure, such as the portable high-definition camera for the examination and the memory card. However, there is a number of expenditure which, as usual, has not been quantified by the General Accounting Office of the State. Assuming them in the Minutes, in order not to get tired, it is about six and there is no estimate from the General Accounting Office of the State. So we wonder what the reason why he has not appreciated them at all. What matters, of course, is the reduction of accidents, which can be achieved by better roads and by proper policing, such as traffic cams. However, we wonder why the main motorway manager, the national manufacturer, the 'TERNA', does not use the modern systems, as was seen from the snowstorms which were interrupted by traffic, despite the fact that this is forbidden. We will not go further in the examination procedures after they have been analysed by our rapporteur, but we note that apart from the MEDIs, which have been fully described how to facilitate their examination, there is provision for the possibility of obtaining authorisation for beneficiaries of international protection under Article 5. Is it true for those who have applied for asylum, since foreigners from the European Union can drive with their country's permission, while those who have moved here to work for some time can use the international driving licence? How many languages will those who do not speak Greek be facilitated, as shown by Articles 6 and 10? In any case, because driving licence is a qualification for work, it should not be given to people without a work permit, because this is a burden on domestic wages, and it is precisely for that reason that driving licences are very strict in the United States. In particular, with regard to Article 49 for the granting of - renewal of a driving licence for a car, such as taxi, it is included in paragraph 1 - the granting of a licence for foreign nationals as long as they know the Greek language sufficiently, which will also have wage consequences for Greek workers. Continuing with historical cars, the arrangements are positive, especially in that they are allowed to be released freely under reasonable conditions, while under the former regime there were many restrictions. We should note here that it is generally positive for the economy, while abroad it is an important investment item where according to data from “CREDIT SUISSE” and “DELOITTE”, the value of the auctions of such cars amounted to 1 billion dollars between 2014 and 2018. Therefore, the fifteen thousand historical cars that exist in Greece can be an important economic activity. However, it is not clearly defined which car is characterised as historic or published criteria such as the European Union and elsewhere, but it is up to ministerial decisions and approval by specific bodies, which we do not consider to be appropriate at all. For example, is a car historical using an engine from another associated model? If any other changes have been made inside or abroad, is it a history? What if it's turned into electric, like in the last time in Skopje? We would remind you here that we have asked twice about the relevant framework in Greece without getting any specific answer, which means that bureaucracy appears in its devastating magnificence. It is also interesting to see Article 44, in particular as regards the fact that used Euro5 taxi cars or newer technology may be put into circulation over five years. It appears that the account of the electricity movement promoted by the government is a retreat, but since it has led Greece to extremely expensive imported electricity with its huge real mistakes, while the latest incentives announced by Mr. Hatzidakis for electric taxis with the slogan "moving electrically" have failed evenly, as we will testify in the Minutes. The only thing that was a success, but after our own pressures, it was electric bicycles and scooters, and unfortunately no attention was paid to domestic production, as is the government's customary. We have not even created a type-approval office, which we have mentioned many times, which proves that there is no interest in producing by the government, despite the important advantage we have. What is the advantage we have? LARCO's nickel leading to the sale through the Skopje factory, and even a question has been asked by a Member of the New Democracy, following of course our own report, which we will be tabling in the Minutes. It's very interesting. We are still waiting to see what is going to happen with the investment of the Albanians "NEXT E.GO" in Germany you are still looking for, as we will testify in the Minutes. It is worth noting that, unfortunately, many are interested in electricity and green energy, just to collect the grant from the Recovery Fund, for example, the excess of the foreigners who controls the public transport of Athens and the huge public property, but, in the process of supplying green buses, obviously from Germany with our own money through the Recovery Fund. If that's possible! To supplement here the suspected arrangement in Article 62 for the derogating from contracts by the OSCE under a financial limit due to the pandemic - the excuse of the pandemic is always used - for the operation, maintenance and support of equipment for the automatic cost-learning system. We, of course, do not agree with the derogating provisions for pandemic or for any other reason. Is it true that the regulation of machinery on OSCE buses leased by the CCEE and for a period without ticket machines? But why does it need to be derogated? We must note, however, that the OSCE online ticket has it, the consortium of the national manufacturer, again 'TERNA', with the 'LG', which took all the 'TERNA' as well. In conclusion, we would remind the House that the OSE was divided into the 'TRAINOSE' which was sold to the Italians for 45 million with a premium of 750 million for the PSOs for 15 years for 50 million. We collected 45 million and offered a dowry of 750 million to the "GAIA OSE" which is the second company that went through the Hypertemium and the EBSY, which was eventually absorbed by the "TRAINOSE". Thus the OSE, in which case in the public sector, has remained the infrastructure that requires maintenance and of course, the damage, as was the case with the airports that have been given, while the OSE is grants EUR 45 million annually and the PPP is prepared for the maintenance of the infrastructure, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. Article 59 of the bill establishes the incompatibility of its subsidies, obviously because of its debts, which is absolutely irrelevant to the rules of the free market. It is, of course, not negative if the ADAD of the lenders is not involved, since what remains of the OSE, the damage actually belongs to the public. Article 56 now amends the law on the payment of the public service obligation - so called - and in the fourth quarter of 2020, obviously because we had lockdowns which did not make the planned routes and require a derogating legalisation. All this despite the fact that the Italian State 'TRAINOSE' - it is an Italian state company - was subsidised by the measures of the pandemic by means of a joint ministerial decision, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, which means that they are not already related to the provision of services, but, in fact, they are subsidies. Fake news of the privatization of the OSE and market liberalisation. Fake news about saving costs. Fake News on improving services, after Italian fast trains are launched in the Athens-Thessaloniki line, despite the fact that the line has been upgraded. Our question here is why the General Accounting Office of the State does not quantify either here or the cost of the PSOs, despite the fact that it is known, which is obviously totally unacceptable. Article 55 states that the ‘TRAINOSE’ or any other companies that already provide routes must indicate the pricing policy for these lines, when we all know that there is no information on the PSOs and their frequency, while there is an investigation that we have previously submitted, according to which there is no performance of the PSOs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take my dentistry, Mr. President. Isn't that pretext and shame then? It should not at least oversee the routes one other independent authority set up by New Democracy, the RAS. How many more independent authorities will be established as referred to in Article 43, namely the Passenger Regulatory Authority? All independent authorities! What is the reason for their existence? We note that the state does not interfere with the RAE that has destroyed our country's energy supply by giving uncontrolled licences for RES even to the poor of Evia. To conclude with the outrageous article 57, I would say that it is not possible to train drivers from the public OSE to the private 'TRAINOSE'. Who, really, will now be training the OSE academy that opened just in 2018? Is this not a complete dissolution of everything and a dismantling of resources? We are closing down with a topical and urgent debate on the subject of the Ministry of Infrastructure - we prefer to remain on the subject - which has wider implications for the business climate and the economy. It concerns the scandalous support of AEGEAN in the light of the latest developments, firstly recalling that the company has been strengthened in the context of the air transport pandemic measures: firstly, with the majority of the 115 million total air transport support measures, such as ticket grants, the ‘PRODUCTION — WORK’ programme, the reduction of VAT and tax, as well as the delays in renting and renting included in the AEGEANs that were voted on during this period. Secondly, with a loan of 150 million from the four systemic banks that were recapitalised by Greek taxpayers through the CIVID Business Guarantee Fund -19 where the State guarantees 80% of the company's loans without any consideration. Thirdly, with 120 million public participation in the increase of capital in the form of warrants that can go unvalued, and already the company admits that part of them is lost. We would remind you here that the public recovers the value of warrants only if it reaches the capitalisation of AEGEAN, that is, its stock exchange value at EUR 2,2 billion, when it is currently around EUR 460 million. I'll testify the evidence for everything in the Minutes. "AEGEAN" invested in 2020 in Romanian airline "ANIMA WINGS" taking 25% of its shares, while recently increasing its share to 51% by offering it additional three aircraft from its own Greek fleet for free. At the same time it launched redundancies in Greece, at the same time as we Greeks financing it indirectly, how much as potential shareholders, if the warrants are finally activated. In simple terms, we are indirectly supporting in all these ways a Romanian charter company that serves mainly Antalya in Turkey and jobs naturally in Romania, when our economy is in the worst possible condition of its history. Even worse, the Government did not support, as unsustainable, a small Greek charter company of almost a size, the ‘ORANGE2FLY’ with four A320 aeroplanes and a hundred staff who applied for bankruptcy after a request for financing was rejected by the alleged Greek banks. However, in 2020, six domestic companies, including the ‘ELLINAIR’ of the Musennide group, which has largely contributed to tourism from Russia on which many companies are dependent in northern Greece. Is it not scandalous, then, for AEGEAN to receive almost all the aid by investing with our own money abroad, not to support the other Greek companies, obviously to remain the 'AEGEAN' monopoly? Is that a free market? Is that fair? So do the rules of the free market which the government supposedly supports and which are totally opposed to monopolies? Why is this hatred - literally hatred - of the government towards domestic small and medium-sized enterprises? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u186	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr Simopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the amendments and, above all, the issue of school meals at issue. Above all, I have to say to the government, but also to the Civic Opposition, that, as long as we maintain the same way of supplying school meals, we will have such phenomena. We had it last year, we had it this year, we had it last year, we may have it next year. Why is that so? Because we have only arranged a few big companies to enter the competitions. It is reasonable, therefore, through competition between them, to have actions or other phenomena that arise from the examination of the contracts by the Court of Auditors. I have formally proposed and asked the House a question on 6 July 2020 if the Minister and the State Secretary intend to take the appropriate steps to get the school lunch programme to ten thousand school cubs through and under the supervision of the school committees without increasing the Ministry of Labour budget. It is a solution through which children will have quality meals, hot meals and a solution which will not lead to many thousands of meals in the trash. It is a solution which I also call for opposition to adopt. It is a solution which will not force us to have these debates in Parliament. I put my question to the House as well. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Efstratios (Stratos) Simopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I now come to the second point, which is the amendment to the Patras to Tower road. In short, it is a work that matured between 2012 and 2014. It could be ready in 2015. For the well-known reasons, it was split up and essentially led to a situation where the government had to intervene in order to find a solution. The solution given is the right one, and I would like to stress that, in a few years' time, we will have this infamous Patras tower road and many will cease - mainly young and older - to lose their lives. This work should make us all understand the concept of the public interest, because in an attempt to see our political interest or an attempt to lead things through a long delay towards the end result, we have deaths on the streets. The public interest is what in any case excludes, reduces the possibility of death. I also come to another point where the water routes are. I didn't see any reactions from the side of the Opposition. They are amendments to a bill that had speeded up the procedures in which I had the pleasure and honour of being rapporteur. Already through the bill, we have licensed Volos and Rethymnon and are pending licenses on another twenty-five waterways. I also welcome the model adopted for the South Aegean Region, the five-seat passenger cars being able to become public-use nine and I imagine that in other tourist areas in Greece it will be adopted. It is something that all of Greece asks for, because Greece is basically a tourist region. I'll make a few remarks about the bill. I insist that the article on special transport companies should be withdrawn. Too many companies have already incorporated the new process into their operation and it is unfair for some - few, many - trade unionists say that it is ten to twenty, the Ministry says it is a hundred - to continue to have this unfair competition or if we give them time to convert, to be much smaller or to remove them the tax privilege they have now and which is why competition is no longer healthy. On a second level, I believe that private individuals should also be able to become trainers, because at some point the system with civil servants can be blocked. Why not also give this possibility, a possibility which I think the whole world will welcome, I think, all citizens will welcome. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. I welcome, of course, the fact that through legislative improvement the instructor is coming forward and not as he was in the original bill, back. Another issue that I have raised in mind in the Ministry of Administrative Reform is that driving schools should be given the opportunity to be able to use massively through the TAXIS and to be paralysed. It is something that many people are asking for. Not everyone is able to submit the paradox individually. This is also a matter for the Ministry of Transport, Mr Undersecretary, of course, of the Ministry of Administrative Reform. I welcome the arrangements for historical vehicles, and of course, what I have put to the committee is that the regulation by which some retired civil servants can also be trainers must either be abolished or put into effect for everyone. Why would it only apply before 2002? Finally, for the whole bill, from what I have already heard from the opposition, there were no substantial interventions or, rather, very much objections. In any case, driver schools, but also citizens, want the resolution in this area, which lacks transparency. The draft law that the previous government carried out did not work. Basically, on the basis of that bill, but also with a number of changes, another bill comes, which I am sure will move and move in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u188	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mrs Rallia Christidou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law which, in its implementation, depends on the adoption of twenty ministerial decisions. This is a policy of the repetitive government, a practice which not only reveals a contempt for parliamentary procedures and democracy, but also reveals the sloppyness with which you legislate, a sloppyness which is affecting multiples. When you prevent opposition from expressing an opinion on critical aspects of the implementation of a law, you prevent the possibility of making suggestions to you, to make suggestions to you. In fact, you are preventing us from protecting citizens from wrong legislative decisions and that is not beneficial to anyone or you. Moving on to the text of the bill, I will start with Articles 17 and 18 for the Examination Register. Fortunately, following the criticism that has been made, the Minister for Transport has abolished the participation of individuals, at least for the time being. However, the examination is treated as a service of civil servants after eight hours of work. It is the state's duty, ladies and gentlemen, to set up a specialised body of examiners, but also of supervisors, with the exclusive employment of driving tests. It is not possible, in Article 19, for the supervision of the examinations to be carried out in the same way as police and port staff. The ideological, any sacrifice, refusal of recruitment in the public sector on your part, your indifference in the staffing of services with appropriate staff leads your Government to decisions that would be comic, if there were no worrying perceptions that turn us back half a century. With regard to the examination procedure, it should be noted that once again the request by drivers for an examination without an attendant in a car offered by the services, not the instructor in a safe space, has been ignored. Furthermore, once again the bill does not deal with the process of driving learning, i.e. the stage before the examination, as it does not include a single line. I repeat, not a single line. And, of course, that doesn't make us any impression, because it's a costly process of education, if we want safe drivers! Nor does it make us any impression that you have no strategy to reform driving culture and behaviour, while driving and, indeed, driving safe is the most important expression of the right to free movement of citizens and, in general, for two years now you have shown an allergy in this regard. Of course, I do not need to mention that learning about the road safety and road behaviour of young people in the school environment, which is very important, is still a question. Let's go to article 41. Excessive extension of the age limit of bus drivers to sixty-nine years and drivers of school buses to sixty-five. It is another extreme inspiring device that undermines public security. So we need to argue about how difficult a profession bus driving is, how quickly reflexively does it require? Can a driver respond sixty - nine years old? I wonder what you will answer tomorrow in an accident that we sincerely hope will not happen. Some decisions also have consequences, and we have to get to grips with them. These people need a decent pension from the state and not a prolongation of working life. You must stop having so much hatred for retired people. Article 42. This article provides for the renewal of buses and the implementation of urban and suburban CBCB infrastructures. In other words, it is once again called on the passenger public to pay for the renewal of the vehicles and infrastructures of the private CCT. It is an unfair regulation, which is inadmissible, as the draft law provides that the sums collected may also be used for other purposes. In other words, not only do you bring us an extremely problematic provision, but there is absolutely no guarantee that this money will be made available in accordance with the purpose of the provision. There are cases of regional CBELs, such as Corinth, Kefalonia where, according to complaints, the money collected under such prior rules has never been deposited, and in several cases there are complaints to the members of the administrations that they have been misappropriated. Part of this money has also been used as a monthly sponsorship to the retired presidents of the CBC. So, you mean the modernisation of the CATELs? Don't you know that? Didn't you hear them in the committees? Why don't you change the layout? What should we assume? Let's go to Article 62, which provides that the Athens Urban Transport Agency can give direct assignments - Woe! - regarding the automatic computer computer system. You are turning, that is, once again, public procurement legislation under Law 4412/2016 into rag paper. As the "NAYTTERRIC" has revealed, not "ASYRIA", 65% of all public contracts entered into by your Government in the last eighteen months have been made by direct awards. You've been indifferent to an insane "blue" party of children. The government's "principal" eat with golden spoons from the public funds, while at the same time denying every measure of support for small and medium-sized enterprises and of course, you do not really care about the household pockets, leave the National Health System helpless, leave public education unhelpful. Derogation from the Public Procurement Act should be justified by some exceptional reason. But invoking the pandemic two years after the pandemic appeared cannot be regarded as having an urgent and sudden character. Furthermore, the direct assignment for automatic cost-sharing should be accompanied by guarantees that there will be a reliable revenue-sharing system, as, as you know, in the five years 2011-2015, the OSCE had lost 3 million euros due to the absence of effective control over the sale of tickets, as demonstrated by the relevant investigation by the General Inspector. Such natural guarantees are absent from the bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm hanging up with this, Madam President. I would like to say a word about the amendment to school meals that we tabled as SYRIZA. The Court of Auditors prohibited the signing of contracts initiated by you, precisely because they were photographic in favour of certain major interests. The preparation and distribution of school meals, until the end of the new tendering procedure, must be carried out by means of a system guaranteeing the legality, compliance with the principles of healthy competition and the effectiveness of the provision of services. Contractors will receive the immediate preparation and distribution of school meals for as long as necessary until the completion of the new competition. We therefore call on you to adopt the amendment. It's a shame to play on the backs of children who need these meals. You once look worthy of your responsibilities. Finally, I want to present a personal experience. I used the metro a few days ago to move from my Ilioupoli neighborhood to the House, i.e. the Constitution. With a real surprise I saw a message transmitted to the train screens calling on citizens not to use public transport as long as they can. I wonder: Really, is that, Minister, the work you are doing? Does it not make you any disgrace, even awkward about this message your area of responsibility sends? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Voridis, has asked for the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. I take the floor for a rapid explanation of its support under a general number of 1120 and a special 29 amendments which we tabled. This amendment concerns a number of extensions which mainly regulate the question of the timing of elections to a number of legal persons. It concerns, firstly, the extension of the term of office of members of the services councils. It concerns the question of the re-expansion of the collective bodies of legal persons, the extension of the term of office of administrative boards, cultural, sporting, charitable and other unions, trade unions - again the issues of elections - the term of office of the administrative and disciplinary boards, committees of inquiry, representatives of local dentist associations, general meetings on urban cooperatives. It is a series of provisions which extend until 31 December the term of office and the procedure for the election of these institutions, mainly because there is a problem in convening them and holding meetings. However, because we have now given the opportunity to convene these conventions, because the specific restrictions have therefore been lifted to a very large extent, we are now giving it to the effect that these provisions with which these restrictions have been reached have become quite close to the previous extension we have given, on the previous expiry of October 30. So this previous expiry, the one that came a few days ago, found relatively unprepared unions, councils, trade unions to convene their general assemblies to make the archaeology. We are therefore giving it a final extension - and I would stress it - until 31 December in order to complete this process. This is obviously in agreement with the trade unions. He's in touch with the unions as well. We're satisfying a request for them. However, I would like to clarify and say again that this extension we are giving is a last extension. It is also another provision in this amendment which enables the provisions on bank seats to continue to apply, where there is a wider space in shops, because it is precisely necessary to facilitate the use of external spaces for the treatment of pandemics. That is the amendment, Madam President. Thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to develop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, too, Minister. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Nikolaos Pappas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Karamanlis has committed a manoeuvre, a disgrace during the first placement, because he said by word to SYRIZA, that sometimes refusal of reality has medical causes. I would say that we are waiting for his apology, but that requires political bravery. But we ask one to explain to him that he has to intervene to erase this from the Minutes. If it does not do so by the end of the sitting, I think the Bureau and the Ethics Committee have the floor. And I say it as quietly as possible. Such a level of dialogue should not be allowed in here. There's room for confrontation and a fierce conflict, but such an insult... I do not know which group of fellow citizens and what he had in mind when he called the Civic Opposition of sick people. I think that there will be a room for everyone to think of it as a simple language slip, erase it from the Minutes and go further. A moment ago, in Vima, Mr Simopoulos was on behalf of the New Democracy and spoke about the issue of the OPEKA competition. You don't have to get tired. We have tabled an amendment which solves the problem and extends a contract which you have signed. You have come and changed a fundamental condition which, according to the Court of Auditors, flew out small and medium-sized enterprises and the Court of Auditors braked. Mr. Simopoulos, I know what you said. You have made an attempt to formulate an alternative proposal. And I say to the government that you support with your vote, that things are very simple. You extend the contract, which you have already performed. I think it's reasonable. You should see it with a lot of thought. I have also heard Mr Plouris with an accent, which, let me say, does not match developments. He comes and renounces the Qualified Opposition as to whether he has any proposals and even says, because once again, we have made your hand of understanding that we insulted the scientists. Yes, let's see. Have scientists recommended that there be no control over the churches? It's a simple question. Or does this proposal fall under what Mr Georgiadis and Mr Mitsotakis have said that the decisions are political? Who offends scientists? We will be tabling an amendment to this effect, which provides for and requires that there be tests for access to the places of worship. It cannot, as Alexis quite rightly said, Tsipras, all Greece counts dead with anguish and New Democracy counts votes. It was absolutely unsatisfactory and the style and intensity with which Mr. Ploris also addressed the Chief of Officerial Response and the Civilian Response as a whole. I don't think he's looking for a price. A little discourse does not jeopardize the scientific community as well. I'd like to hear that. So, did the scientists get together and say we won't ask for a test at the pharmacies, at the supermarket and at the churches? Did you have such a recommendation from the Scientific Committee? Because that's what you announced. And you come here and say we offend the scientific community? The ERC collapses on your own responsibility and in the face of the doctor at the Larissa Hospital, it was precisely this collapse, which is collapse and infrastructure and human resources. And these are shocking images, which should really make you think. I would also personally expect scientists, who have taken on the difficult task of representing the health ministry's political leadership from the start, to speak and say what went wrong. Things aren't right. Unless there's no one here ready to celebrate and tell us we did it again. 'The last mile is over' Mr Mitsotakis told us in February - March. The last mile isn't over. So the scientific community also has the responsibility of explaining to the Greek people. We are talking today, ladies and gentlemen, and I will be as brief as I can, a bill which does not solve any problem. It takes twenty ministerial decisions and a presidential decree to be implemented. It is a huge volume of secondary legislation. The government has sat on the fact that it has the right to a diploma at seventeen. Okay. That's what we're with. You wondered if the young people are with you, who, when we brought the voting arrangement to seventeen, Mr Mitsotakis from this Step forward said that these are the things that the dictatorships are doing on another top of the opposition tactic, for which I imagine he will have regretted, unless two and a half years now you did not think about changing this dictatorial type of regulation and applying it as it is. So the fireworks don't hide or correct the known pathogens. There was a game with the examiner record. Open a private membership window there. Fortunately, you got it back and it's right. And, of course, you're creating another police corps, which is called the Driving Police Corps. I do not know any other European country, except Bulgaria, where the uniforms take the driving test. I think you should think about that again. There has also been a lot of discussion about our own control over the video, about audiovisual material which, in our case, were automatically transferred to the Ministry. Now a special memory card is being extracted here and we wonder if that is sure of the protection of personal data, apart from the fact that the examiners should have studied in the directing schools: put the camera on, set it up, take a shot to see the examiner, show the clutch, show the gas, hide the personal data of the passers, and once you've finished, set up the cameras again with all these conditions. And, of course, at a period of accuracy, we see that the fare is growing. Fortunately, you have retreated to your intention to go to the sixty-nine years for the age limit for bus drivers and, of course, here Mr Karamanlis - he is not in the Chamber - has made badgers, not to say mushrooms. And I wish the mushrooms were the only problem. We'd be a little happy. We would say that we entered a car with Christos Giannoulis, who waited to be repaired to start going Thessaloniki - Drama and have planted mushrooms, normally mushrooms. So, how long was that thing there? How long did he have to get in there and see if he's in a position to serve? He was in the engine room ready to get on the way. Why? Because there are problems in the trains all the time. This morning, the route Thessaloniki - Drama was delayed an hour and a half. The third train in line was about to run a route. The first two tested failed to start. The day before, half an hour was delayed. I would also like to say this very clearly and calmly: terrorism against workers will not be allowed. You can blame me and Mr. Giannoulis, if you like, for entering and seeing ourselves this abandonment, but other practices I think are superfluous. It's one of the most. Don't try them. They will not work and anyone who insists will pay a price, because the person who thinks he can exercise terrorism can also come out in the center. I'm saying it too, too, very simple. This is your state on the railroads. Xanthi and Komotini have not seen a train for two years, the Peloponnese Yuk. It's going all the way to Kiato. And we come here and celebrate the year of the railroads, which is what this is all about? Your only announcements? That is what you should know and know that they will not stay with progressive governance, which after the next elections will take over the country's fates and will support an instrument that is environmentally and citizen-friendly. Mr Karamanlis, of course - I cannot say - has arranged for northern Greece and has set a train for Serres and a train to return. It is also indicative of how he perceives his responsibility towards the citizens of northern Greece as a whole. Allow me in the two minutes left to make a reference to anti-military works. We had events a few days ago, which were heartbreaking, like the bus that stayed in Faliro and almost sunk. Luckily, we didn't have any victims. We have a huge flooding project launched by the regional administration of Duro, which has been frozen since 2019 and is now accountable for the Region of Attica. Mr Karamanlis is not here, of course, but I would like to know what is happening with the other anti-punishment project in Moschato, which despite all the suggestions made by the services, came a contractor and filed his complaints. The agency's suggestions were that his positions should not be accepted and eventually they were accepted. We have tabled a question with thirty two SYRIZA MPs - a Progressive Alliance, we are waiting for a question before the next waterbath, because once the ministry said that the contractor is free to resolve itself, nothing has happened. You have neither addressed the participants of the previous competition nor reopened it. And I think these inertia are inertia that we should not see. We would like to see the projects with the large contraction of EUR 140 million going ahead in Carditsa. We do not see too much mobility. We would like Evia and North Attica to see the elementary first projects executed. We don't see that either. And, of course, we also have a general delay in major infrastructure projects. We hear big things again about the Patron tower. I do not understand if you have such a great success, why don't you bring us the correspondence with the European Commission? We have asked for it for months and months and again and we have announcements 'a, we have done it'. Nothing has happened. You simply repeat that you have succeeded and insulted the opposition, which, through parliamentary control, is trying to pull aside. Finally, there is a major issue with indirect privatisation of water. You go on to privatize maintenance services to the EEAS and here it seems you have not learned any lessons from the international experience of privatising large water networks. It is not time for your practice to charge the Greek citizen even more expensive services for drinking water. Drinking water is a human right and a progressive governance as such will ensure it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u194	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Kavadas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that the government has brought today is an important step towards strengthening road safety as it upgrades the theoretical and practical examinations of the candidate drivers. It solves the unsurpassed problems caused by SYRIZA - ANEL Government's Law 4599/2019 which led to the hostage of a hundred and fifty thousand candidates, but also professional car drivers from the failure to carry out examinations. I would remind you of the provision for recording and transmitting the practical test and the theoretical examination for which the Privacy Authority has negatively consulted. I would remind you of the forecast for a practical test on pistes that our country did not have. The legislation of the Ministry of Transport, which was formulated after consultation and consultation with operators, aims to strengthen road safety through the creation of a new and best framework for the theoretical and practical examinations of candidate drivers, which also makes use of international experience. This is why it introduces a number of innovations that upgrade the transparency index, but also the reliability of the practical and theoretical examinations such as: First, obtaining a diploma and temporary driving licence always with a companion from the seventeen, since the applicant successfully completes the driving tests. Secondly, a simplification of the theoretical material to be more understandable and to strengthen critical thinking. Thirdly, the creation of a register of examiners for the practical testing of candidates with employees of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, as well as other civil servants certified through examinations. Fourthly, the establishment of a register of supervisors by the staff of the Greek Police with special training to perform a sample check for the proper conduct and conduct of the investigations. Fifth, theoretical training of examiners and supervisors by the National Centre for Public Administration and Administration. Sixth, increased consideration of examiners and compensation for supervisors. Seventh, tightening of identity checks on candidate drivers. Transparency shall also be ensured by the use of cameras inside the vehicle when conducting the practical examinations in accordance with the instructions and guidance of the Independent Privacy Authority. The material will be stored for a reasonable period of time and may be examined in the event of a complaint or objection that candidates may submit electronically. It is also very important that the new framework of practical testing also provides for the right of free driving to up to five minutes without evaluation, if the applicant so wishes, to become familiar with the vehicle. An important reform is the new information system to process all procedures related to the issue, extension, renewal and management of the driving licence or certificate of professional competence. Finally, the introduction of a specific theoretical examination for candidate drivers with disabilities is a very positive and necessary innovation. Finally, I should like to refer to two amendments tabled by the Ministry of Transport. The first gives the possibility of classifying seven-and-a-half taxis from professional motorists to the South Aegean Region. This is a very positive arrangement, Minister, which starts piloting in a region with strong tourist current, which justifies the authorisation to classify such vehicles. The same features are given by the Ionian Islands Region. That is why I would like to ask you in the near future to extend the measure to include other regions in the regulation and not to have a two-speed taxi. Also, in island areas such as Lefkada, during the summer months when the movement is growing vertically, the demand for taxi increases by analogy and as a result customers are forced to wait long to move. I would therefore like to call on you, Minister, in cooperation with the region, to see the issue and to find a solution to the issue of new taxi permits based in bustling villages with great tourist traffic and to meet the needs of the summer season. Finally, a debate on the very positive amendment that paves the way for the waterways to go. The investor concerned is given the opportunity to start operating a water service with temporary permission. The normal licence procedure shall not be withdrawn but shall continue on a parallel basis provided that it has been completed within one year of the issue of the provisional licence. Of course, specific conditions and conditions are described in order to permit equipment, staff, operating area specifications and others. The facilitation of all kinds of transport and transport is a prerequisite for development, and this amendment, Mr Minister, and I would like to congratulate you on that, is a very positive and very necessary step to finally move these multi-faceted investments into the water and citizens in island areas such as the Ionian Seas to gain an additional way to move and connect with the rest of the country as well as with each other. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law which comes today to be voted on and debated in the House upgrades the education of the candidates and thus strengthens road safety. But road safety first and foremost passes through the road network. A modern road network where citizens can move safely and quickly is the inalienable prerequisite to having fewer victims on the asphalt. That is why I should like to conclude by mentioning the implementation of two very large road projects in my area: Ambrosia Road and the double-axle Vonitsas - Lefkada and Aktiou - Agios Nikolaos. These projects will be completed thanks to the Government of New Democracy and I must publicly congratulate the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure and particularly the Minister, Mr Kostas Karamanlis, because very effectively and immediately he has taken initiatives to build these very important roads. We look forward, Minister, to the completion and completion of this road with the underwater link between Lefkada and Ioannina. A project that has been stopped by a previous government and which has not only come out of inertia, but is progressing very satisfactorily. And I would like to thank the Minister for the interest and cooperation we have in getting these procedures started and to see this great work for Lefkada gaining perspective, taking flesh and bone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u196	Me too, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no longer one Greek who does not agree with the self-proof conclusion that the government has failed fully to manage the pandemic. And the failure of the government is unfortunately deafening. It is reflected in the large dispersion and extent of cases, in the number of imports and intubated cases that have increased geometrically in recent years. It is reflected in the failure of the vacant effort which the government itself first undermined with the commercial and not, as it should, a pedagogical campaign it adopted, but also in the targeting of all those who hesitate to be vaccinated in the classification as anti-invasive. It is, of course, reflected in the measures announced yesterday by the Minister for Health, and I say this because, obviously, the Prime Minister has avoided the hardship of making a complaint. Really, ladies and gentlemen, do you remember how many proclamations Mr Mitsotakis had made, admiring himself for the success of his government in managing the pandemic? What's finally left of Mr. Mitsotakis' pleas? What remains of the government's assurances of the successful management of the pandemic and its end? Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is marginal and, unfortunately, the government - and I stress it, unfortunately - seems that it does not realize it. Since summer there has been geometric progress in increasing cases, imports and so on, and the government has not only taken measures, but also allowed relaxation to implement the measures already taken. How many checks have been carried out, in the past, in areas that were crowded and - since we are discussing, Minister, your bill - in public transport? How many checks were carried out in the previous period? And how many checks can be carried out or will be carried out from now on with the measures announced by the government yesterday? It is essentially the government for which it cares, the only thing it cares about is the management of political costs. What goes wrong is the citizens and the government itself has no responsibility, but no responsibility. And, of course, it has not made anyone, but no one, wrong so far. The fact that our country is at 60% in vaccination and in an immunity wall, at the same time as Portugal is at 90% and other countries approach 80%, is not the government's responsibility. It is only the responsibility of the citizens, according to the government. We are told by some and others - and others - that they are not concerned about the number of cases. Having been in her hands for a year with the vaccine weapon, the government managed to have worse effects on both the second and third waves of pandemic, as regards the epidemiological image of the country. And I say, 'he has succeeded' because this is really a success. Not to mention yesterday's measures! Can one explain convincingly in this Chamber why the churches were excluded from implementing the measures? The Minister who was evacuated by the President, Mr Kaklamani, before, not wanting to hear questions about what he said, but did not accept a dialogue, was hidden behind a lack of constitutionality. And I wonder, when the Prime Minister himself stated that 'what applies to public meetings is true for the churches' and Mr Mitsotakis himself said'religious duties must be adapted to reality', really, Mr Ploris, when Mr Mitsotakis said that they were outside the constitutional limits? Is there an agreement between the scientists to exclude specific sites from the application of the measures? That's what the Minister didn't answer. I therefore call on the Step of the House to ask itself to apply the health protocols for all public spaces. Ladies and gentlemen, the government always having in its planning the early elections and the fear of political costs has included the management of a pandemic in this planning. He's managing a pandemic, not managing a pandemic, but only managing a political cost. On the basis of that, it only announces the measures delayed, and even half-measures. The Minister admitted before that he recommended measures to the Committee of Experts. So I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, is this normal procedure? Is the process that we followed in the first wave of pandemic when the experts introduced and politicians always adopted in the light of public health? Who is ultimately suggesting to whom to implement public health measures? The Committee of Experts in the Government or Ministers, through the channels, to scientists and health professionals? The government itself, which is supposedly struggling for the authority and the Committee of Experts, has cancelled the Committee of Infectiouss, except for some infectious ones who, unfortunately, are self-sufficient in managing publicity. And at the moment the government must realize what it did wrong, because political costs when there is a question of life and death do not exist. And since we are talking about security issues relating to the bill which is currently being discussed in the National Representation and we are talking about road safety, the image in our country, despite the fact that it has improved in recent years, over the last decade, and we have been up from the 26th place on the 20th on road safety, is far below the European average. In fact, during the Lockdown period, unfortunately, road accidents indices tend to increase. During the presentation of the national plan to improve road safety and reduce fatal road accidents, the Minister referred to the quadrant of road safety: safe roads, drivers responsible, traffic education, fair rules for all. Let's look at them. Safe streets. What is the truth about ELSTAT and the numbers on the Greek streets? An increase of 24.5 in road traffic accidents that took place throughout the country this July compared to last month. In these accidents there were seventy-two dead increases of 25% and eighty-four severely injured, an increase of 45%, as well as a slight injury and the causes of this not pleasant, rather very unpleasant, situation are many: problems in road infrastructure, problems in maintenance and delays in the implementation of projects. And here we come - to connect it with the amendment - to the multipathious work of Patras - tower the modern bridge of Arta - as I see my dear colleague Artas Christos Gokas - a project with timeless cross-party responsibilities since 2007 which the citizens of Elia and Achaia are still waiting to implement, they have seen very little. There were announcements by the Minister and Prime Minister at an election in 2019 and immediately after being a priority project and will be made as soon as possible. It's been almost two and a half years and we're still waiting for the final agreement. And today, with an amendment to be put forward for discussion and vote, we have no specific commitment from the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure that the concession of Patras to Tower will be approved and that the project will be started and when this will be completed. And, of course, SYRIZA, whoever protests about this, does not make his self-criticism 'cause he left almost five years without doing anything and continued to have the traffic accidents, deadly too many times, unfortunately. Here, then, there are vague questions, which I must put on behalf of the people of Elias to the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure in order to obtain concrete answers and commitments. When the process is completed and when the Patras Tower project will begin, because the final approval of the European Commission is still pending. What is the content of the agreement with Olympia Street? We haven't seen this notorious Memorial of Consensus. Why am I saying that? Because with the amendment we are discussing today, it goes to the concession not only of Patras - Tower but also of the piece of Tower - Chacona, for which I do not know whether the concessionaires have declared an interest in implementing it, if the Ministry has an alternative direction to complete this work, how will this be done, and what timetable is it? Just bringing an amendment to a road section of a very important, very neural, and also to Elias, but also to the Messinia, without having ensured agreement between the concessionaires and a specific timetable and cost, I think it is simply being offered to create impressions and not to resolve real problems. Our rapporteur, Christo Goka, has referred to many issues relating to the system of education and examination of candidates, which must be modernised, and the most important thing is not to cause any hardship or any further cost and burden with the new model, because no one can forget the trouble that had been caused in previous years and, of course, also because of the pandemic of many candidates who are waiting for examinations, and that is why our point of view is that the body of examiners should be strengthened, we think it is necessary to save this suffering. We cannot, however, talk about modernising education without updating the educational material so that the driver is aware of the new technologies that apply to vehicles and improving road safety and electricity. As far as traffic education is concerned, I think we all agree that the acquisition of empathy for good road behaviour is ensured only by the education that must start from an early age and continue throughout the lifetime of the individual. Special messages, special campaigns and campaigns are needed and we would like there to be a reference from the government if there is a plan. We would like there to be a petition from the government, if there is any design. We think it is something that echoes all the wings of this House. Of course, we want fair rules for everyone. Even vulnerable road users should be able to use equal and equal rights. That is why I think the establishment of evaluation and certification centres for drivers with disabilities is a positive development. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. I will make a little mention - Mr Cavada has also been mentioned - because we do not understand why the tax-conversion amendment is limited. In fact, it was received and with warm applause from the Wing of Co-population and the Member of the Co-population Mr Kavadas is the one who asked for the self-evident. What? As applied in the South Aegean, apply to other areas that have tourist traffic, such as the Ionian Islands Region, such as the Region of Crete. We really consider it incomprehensible and incomprehensible, unless it serves a certain commitment from the Minister to a Member or a factor in the South Aegean region. As regards the amendment of the PSC, which, on the basis of the General Accounting Office of the State, will cost EUR 4.28 million for the security services, it would be desirable to allow smaller schemes to participate and not to live there, Minister, which are piloted in Heraklion at the cost of the Greek State. Finally, Amendment No 1119 - the Minister responsible will also come, I imagine - for the Committee on Game Surveillance and Control, there are too many provisions which need clarification. There is this extension of the suspension of demolition, suspension of execution of demolition protocols, which expired in October, and which had stirred a storm of protests and reactions. It is indicative that this extension of the'reform' mark, which governs this government, will all adapt it to the needs of the context and to the feasibility and strategy that seems to be an election campaign. However, this should not be done on road safety issues - and despite any improvements made by the Minister and following comments from both our fellow Members and Vice-Presidents and those involved in the debate - which are, I think, issues that can really unite and can bring us all to the same side. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] It is therefore up to the Government by the end of the debate to make the amendments, to make corrections so that we all feel that we are making a positive contribution to something that will have an impact on society, will also be useful for reasons of public security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr Katrin. Good evening, you and me. And Mr. Andreas Xanthos is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and Mr. Boubas is prepared from the Greek Solution. Then the Undersecretary will talk. Here, Mr. Xanthi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will make a reference to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Health and you will allow me to make a comment on the health situation in which the country is, unfortunately, developing in a very painful way. We all understand it, we're watching it. The pandemic is now uncontrolled in Greece. We are experiencing - and I fear that this will deteriorate in the next period - a health tragedy centred on northern Greece and Thessaloniki again. The National Health System is pressurized unbearably, its human potential is on the burnout limit and the image of the colleague from the Larissa Hospital says it all. We have statements of measures yesterday by the Minister of Health, which are tragically inconsistent with the criticality of the situation. We have an amendment from the Ministry of Health today which also does not address any major issues and does not strengthen the health strategy for a decent management of this crisis. Yesterday Mr. Plouris presented a package without even having an emergency plan specifically for northern Greece, which will lead to a commitment by all available health forces and structures and the public sector, the private sector and the Armed Forces. It is not possible at the time when public hospitals are falling apart, that the government does not dare move the critical structures of the private sector and emulate forces against the common battle. That is - I think - huge political uncertainty and oligopoly. And, obviously, it is not a private clinic charge to engage certain small and medium-sized clinics and rehabilitation centres with a minimum number of beds for COVID incidents. There is also no new vaccination strategy. The government proceeded with the logic of the omissions, this tank was exhausted very quickly, there was no serious research - scientific, social - to analyse the underlying causes of this refusal and the differences, the differences in the different regions - regions, ages, occupations, educational levels in the country - to make a more targeted, more convincing and hence more effective intervention. "Health intervention" means this thing in the community, the general population, making use of family doctors, making use of health professionals and not just some television spots. It didn't happen, and it didn't happen either. There is no feeling that we are experiencing a major crisis and we must go to a restart, a total restart, at all levels, both in policy management and in scientific supervision and evaluation and coordination of interventions to be made. And this does not produce social and political consensus, it does not give society the feeling that something really critical is happening today, which we have to deal with with with in an attempt to reach a minimum of understanding. They are the reflexive tragic deficits, because most of all the government had a sense of temporaryity towards this pandemic. He thought that, wherever it was, it would be a bourgeoisie that would go through even by the arrival of the vaccines and by the reason that we are going through the last mile and all of this. These collapsed internationally. We're in a new phase, we need a new strategy. Such a strategy does not exist and this strengthens the insecurity, uncertainty, questioning and crisis of confidence of an important part of society as it has proved to be against this management.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u200	You won't have time for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u201	And, of course, there is no change in the unsuccessful line that the restrictive measures taken concern only the inconveniences. This, too, is problematic. 40% of the population is invasive, 1/3 of adults are invasive, 25% of the over eighty years are invasive, 28% of the cancer patients are invasive. There are populations of special vulnerability, such as refugees, immigrants, Roma, prisoners, homeless, drug addicts, who are tragically low and no one is involved in this. And so the government comes and brings us an amendment which provides for the extension of the socially unjust and cruel measure of suspending work of non-vaccinated workers to the health system until 31 December. Now, at the time of the crisis, at the time of the heavy pressure, the government does not understand that these seven thousand people should return to hospitals without delay, with enhanced measures and security standards to protect their own and to protect patients, as has happened with hundreds of unvaccinated workers who have received a certificate of vaccination from special three-member committees and have returned to work with two rapid test a week. In the same way, therefore, it must be done for the rest too, in order to support the ESS at this critical stage and to stop this social cruelty from losing people's jobs and becoming poor, because obviously for the wrong reasons they are still insisting not to be vaccinated. This is unacceptable, as it is unacceptable not to renew subsidiary medical contracts, as the Minister said yesterday, which expired on 31 October and had promised that they would all be extended until 31 March. We therefore disagree with the amendment on critical issues. There is something else that really is very problematic. Article 2 states that the possibility of selling surplus vaccines from our country to other countries is being legislated. Look out, ladies and gentlemen. We have a terrible crisis of inequality around the world. Of the about seven billion doses that have taken place around the world, only 1.4 have been made in the poor countries of the Third World. If you think that we will find purchases to give our own surplus vaccines, regardless of which type of vaccine this will take place, in which procedures, with which prices, etc., I think it is really tragic. Instead of pressing the global political community - because the global scientific community and the World Health Organisation have long presented the proposal to release the vaccine patent - instead of becoming another type of international regulations central to the access of vaccines, medicines, medical devices around the world and thus to tackle this global crisis, instead of stopping new mutations in invasive populations, instead of moving and taking initiatives as a country with other countries in Europe, the European South, instead of actually demonstrating a solidarity and humanitarian person, all that is of interest to the government is, obviously, a stock of vaccines, to sell it unknown to which countries and under what conditions. There is also a last set of rules in the amendment concerning standards for the transport of seamless and heavy goods vehicles.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u202	Please finish, Mr. Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u203	I shall conclude, Mr President. My dear colleague Christo Kella, because you are both work and specialty, there are JESH decisions specifying which specialties can safely and quality for the patient to do the courses. It is not possible to drop the security standards and say that patients can be transported by any qualified doctor or a qualified doctor who has done six months of specialty. The situation is critical. We need to unite forces and, above all, we need to strengthen the morality of the ERC. Incentives no longer need to be given, as has been the case so far completely ineffective, to private doctors to help insight the ESS. That didn't work. Incentives must be given to those who work and who have tendencies of leaving the system, tendencies of resignation. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] There is a crisis of staffing and of morality in this period, which must be addressed by an integrated intervention, which the government unfortunately does not have the political will to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u204	That's how you always do to me, you're embarrassing me. How can I stop Mr. Booba now? So Mr. Constantine Boubas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a very big and fundamental issue that we are discussing today. It's about driving behaviour, culture and level. However, I think that radical areas are not being addressed in this direction, because it is important to see how much road accidents in Greece and therefore in Europe are costing, and why the Verona Treaty has not been applied in our country as far as road accidents are concerned. We do not, however, go into substance, because I have just contacted and spoken to many drivers and people themselves want a body of purely examiners who have both education and level and who do not come and go to this position as examiners, because they have to have proper knowledge, but also have confidence. If you do not want to create a new body - they say most - then alternately the employee who will be an examiner should not come and pass but be, for example, one month and next month be another, because in the professional examinations, for example on a truck or on a bus, the examiner needs to be over two hours. You will see that we will again have phenomena of the past, where the examiners will not go for examination or they will do so by force - let me have the term - and they will not be the truly objective, inconsistent and fair examinations of candidate drivers. As regards what the Minister responsible said, Mr Karamanlis, with the modification that after the theoretical courses, practical driving cannot begin, that is, the theoretical examination must be completed, this means that it will be back too much time, because if you see at the large metropolitan centres of Athens and Thessaloniki, after the theoretical courses and until the theoretical examination is carried out, it can be carried out up to two months. That's what driver schools say if you go out with evidence. So he'll be inactivated up to two months where the candidate's hot is? That's wrong. The Minister's not here to answer us. So is the instructor going to sit on the front seat or sit back? Because now it is said that he may sit forward, he may sit back. They say that once there are cameras in the vehicle, they must sit ahead and for psychological reasons. You'll remember that when you got a diploma, you wanted next door to your teacher to feel a little more relaxed. It's not to interfere with the pedals. The camera will see that now. So that can now be overcome and the instructor can sit in the front seat. It is a great mistake today - and I would point out, as I am a bicyclist for too many years - someone with an amateur automobile license, ladies and gentlemen, can drive up to a 'five' dicircle. It's a big mistake. It is another driving on the "five" on the two wheel, another driving on the four wheels. It's a big mistake. If you look at the figures from those who hit a "five", they had a licensed car, but they didn't have a moped license. It used to be in the Train. Today, in order to obtain a diploma of 125 cubic cubic metres, he has to do five theoretical lessons. Introduce it to 'five'. It is not the same driving, gentlemen, to drive a "five" two-wheeler because you have an amateur automobile license! There will be accidents! It's a different balance on the two wheels from the steering wheel at four. Big mistake! We're not talking about it! Now, there is a lot of talk about the various conventions, about roadworks, about consortia, such as what you are bringing with an amendment to Corinth - Tower - Chacona, which, due to the economic crisis - is well known by our economist Mr Vilardos - was answered in 2013. It's coming in 2014 with CYA, where you put it back in, but you SYRIZA don't proceed to the auction. However, today the government, while there will be no impact on the government of L.4219, makes the tender. But there is partition in eight sections. We must, however, tell the world that this will be financed by the National Strategic Framework for Development, which is called the 'Regional Development' of 2014 to 2020. Don't expect the Greeks to take money for a road trip from the new NSRF. The roadway's closed. We have to tell the truth. In other words, the new NSRP 2021-2027 does not provide funding for a road route. Don't let the world vision that the highways will be restored. What we got, we got! Indeed, this project will be financed under the ESDP, after approval by the Court of Auditors, by the European Security Committee, etc., with EUR 300 million. What does that mean? It takes fewer projects, because we missed the opportunity from the former NSRP by 200 million less. That's $200 million. Shouldn't we be late? Since we're late in the auctions. As far as the consortia are concerned, I said that next time. Five consortia will put into their funds over the next twenty years, with the tolls you have made all over Greece, EUR 43 billion. Who says that? Mr. Chrysochoidis, when he was Minister of Transport, who had him in the government. He saw Chrysochide for the five consortia. You, gentlemen of SYRIZA, have responsibilities for the "crazy party" on the "Attica Street". We cannot have, Mr Papapas, the other compensation companies EUR 80,000 per kilometre in insurance and in the Attica Road, with the 'Atlantic Routes', which is satellite, justifies up to EUR 1 million in insurance. If that's not what it's called a complication to all her majesty, then what am I supposed to say? When will the issue of the "Attica Road" be handed over to the public? Here there are foreshadows. That is what we need to see, because it is the consortia that are the ones taking the shot. Mr Karamanlis is away now. We have tolls - we denounced it as Greek Solution next time - 'night club'. You heard very well. They're tolls that were working and only paid at night and day were free. Why did that happen? It is at the spot in Derveni, Thessaloniki, on the road of Thessaloniki - Serres which cuts the Egnatia. Wrong placement, there's a risk of an accident. Because you may be subjected to lawsuits, because last minute the other person saw the toll, he tells you "on the night we take them from the trucks that come, because it's more diluting the traffic, so we don't have any lawsuits." In fact, the Regional Director of Central Macedonia, Mr. Djijkostas, has made public statements about the incorrect placement. I hear yesterday that tolls return and operate all 24 hours and, indeed, today with fog. And I ask if there is an accident with the Greek taxpayer - because in a short time there will be a toll in the yard of our house - who will pay the broken ones and who will charge the studies by socialists, political engineers and anyone else, since the tolls are wrong? You will allow me, Mr President, to speak on the issue of health with these amendments. It's the "Come see" at the Hospital of Serres. We also need to ask a topical question about this or a debate. For there have been some strange seminars on doctors of other specialties in order to incorporate people who are affected by COVID. Then the 4th Health Region took it back and said "just in patients who are severely ill". We're playing with words. Without anesthetics, the Hospital of Serres, with a urologist - we are looking to find them - with a hundred and twenty nurses and seven doctors on parole, full of 100% and they have lifted their hands up. Whoever gets in does not escape, since there are no means, there are no beds and we do not have the corresponding specialities of anestheticists. And if we talk with numbers, the world will know in view of a budget deposit - which our economist will tell you - the debts of hospitals, gentlemen, that 2019 was about 322 million euros. In 2020 debts have been launched at EUR 502 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u206	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u207	I shall conclude, Mr President. How old is it this year? It's 922m euros. Why? Because we got material from the suppliers, but the state can't pay them. And I say: where is this accumulated debt being transferred? Won't he go to the taxpayer who pays a price for health? Sustainable is the amount of increase, 169% over. Soon ago there was a resolution of protest from the Municipality of Sufli that you are closing regional medical offices, you are closing off the "satellite". The core without the ‘satellite’ does not function, is weakened. Health centers and regional centers go down rolls. If there are no satellites, how will the core function, please, as far as health is concerned? Mr Villiardos spoke very carefully about the strange airlines they are taking, while some of them are not subsidised. For example, ELLINAIR, etc., which also helps Russians who come to Greece and leave their money and is subsidised by AEGEAN. I was told a moment ago that if you book a ticket online with "AEGEAN" and you're mistaken in a letter from your last name and you call "AEGEAN" to fix it - I was wrong, I wrote "Bubas" with two miles, "Villiard" with three lamps - you pay plus 20 euros. That's where we ended up, gentlemen. They also come out of the cave fly, which the people say to the caterpillar. Is that the air carrier in favour of the citizen in general? When Mr Mitsotakis proposed the QR certificate, the first to support it was the ATA, the International Transformer Association. Why? Because ATA has created a world cartel on flight tickets. That's what we did. Nothing is random. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Michael Papadopoulos is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u209	Mr. President, then how many are we?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u210	Then we have Mr Kouvella and then two parliamentarians who asked to enter in the intervening period. Mrs. Arabaji is in a hurry! In other words, Mr Karathanasopoulos and Mrs Arabatzi will be given the floor and then to you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be tempted to get away from the bill, because I would not have spoken at all about the bill. I assure you that. So I will be staying in some important and one or two amendments. I think that all the amendments play a part, but some are more important. The Legislation of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport "Driving safely" aspires - that is our objective - to create a system that ensures that the evaluation process of the candidate drivers is sound, but above all promotes the level of road safety in our country. This is because it is not only the examination-related part but also the training part. We use technology, reform the matter and the way it meets the educational needs of most of the population. The draft law also clarifies the institutional framework governing historical vehicles, and includes a set of other provisions which deal with problems in the automobile sector and other issues that concern citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill that seems to be of minor importance, perhaps for some, while in fact it goes beyond the major, because it is vital to everyone and everyone, to our entire society. The structure and procedure of the driving rating system are crucial for society, for the economy, for education both collectively and at individual level. It does not only relate to security but to all aspects of the public policies that are implemented and, of course, to what I said earlier, it is a matter of education that concerns all Greeks and everyone and each one separately. We, as a government and as a whole, must be concerned with public policy. Road safety is an important priority for all of us and the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation of opacity, but also the culture of corruption, are hurting us, hurting our culture, our education. Public policies must regulate the economic and social sectors, but also administration must, as a support mechanism for public policies, be responsible and effective. Furthermore, this is a bill which solves the riddles and dead ends of Law 4599/1999 that today's Qualified Opposition with a delay of four years from its election brought it to the vote shortly before the 2019 elections. It is a bill that, within the framework of European Union road safety policy for the period 2021-2030, gives a vision of zero losses. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go further on the pathogens of the previous SYRIZA law. Just because it was heard by the parliamentary representative, I will say that he also had a negative opinion from the Personal Data Protection Authority on the recording of direct transmission of both the practical test and the theoretical examination. I say this because Mr Pappas mentioned it earlier. So we think that it will work, because we want our fellow citizens, the new generations coming. And that's why the education component needs to be upgraded, and that gives even greater value, and we don't have phenomena like those that we've lived in the last few days, deaths of young people, which is the saddest thing there is in what's been happening around us. I will say in summary the main provisions of the draft law, because they were also mentioned by colleagues and by Minister Costas Karamanlis. So I'll be brief. Candidates who have completed the seventeenth year of age can take part in the theoretical examinations and in practical tests. It is also possible to have driving licences with escorts for any candidate drivers who have completed seventeen years and successfully complete their practical test. After one year of the temporary diploma, the new diploma comes directly to everyone's home. Specific theoretical training is provided for specific categories of candidate drivers. Remodel and simplify the subject matter of theoretical education. Questionnaires of the theoretical examinations are available in other languages than the Greek language. Verification of the conduct of the theoretical examinations is a step in the right direction. Applicants shall be informed using audiovisual material for the examination procedure. A sample of the identity of the candidate drivers shall be carried out. Importantly, there is a special theoretical examination of people who have not completed compulsory education, a special theoretical examination of deaf candidates and a video projection on the computer that includes questions, answers, shapes, texts in sign language, as well as subtitles. I am referring to the things that we have also discussed in the committee and have seen issues on which we are really open in a debate to complement and improve. One of these - the Minister said in his speech - was the placement of the instructor in the front seat. I'm not going to go any further. I think he's been very commented on. I would also like to say to you that the Register of Examination Practices for Candidates and Drivers has been drawn up and maintained, which unfortunately did not exist until today. A Register of Supervisors shall be drawn up and kept. A Monitoring Committee and Objections shall be set up to participate in the work of remote surveillance. Remote surveillance is a sample check or a remote check following a complaint or objection of a practical test of the candidate drivers. Candidate drivers, therefore, have the right to object against the result that has happened. It is important that competence assessment and driving preparation centres are set up with the best service of people with motor problems, the 'Virtual' type. To date, all our fellow citizens have been afflicted in visiting only one such centre. We are sure that this logic and the assessment that will be carried out in practice will bring very positive results. Article 25 facilitates the driving of holders of driving licences issued by the United States of America, Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, who are temporarily resident in Greece or are tourists from these countries and have so far not been able to drive the Greek territory. [[At this point the end bell ends the speaking time of the Secretary-General]] Just a few more minutes, Mr. President. Article 27 restores an injustice to candidate drivers who are civil servants and practiced the profession before the incompatibility is established. That's a solution, too. To leave something for my second speech, I would also like to refer to two amendments. It is one amendment which is a permanent place for cabs for nine months. To date it has not been satisfied by anyone, by any government, by any Ministry of Transport. First of all, we are pleased with this demand by the taxi owners. But we are gradually fulfilling this, we also respect the Second Degree Local Government - because the Region, as you know, gives the permits - not uncontrollably. There are ministerial decisions which will determine both the way and the percentage. First of all, we will see how we get the rest of the drivers' behaviour, that is, those who don't get the nine-month cab. Our intention is that this measure should go ahead and be completed throughout the country. It is a fair request and it will be done in the right way. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Secondly, we have been talking for many years about waterplanes and waterplanes. I want to send a message today that those who have in mind that the waterplanes will never fly, forget it. And I say this because I had the luck and the honour in 2014 to be in the same position again and then the first two licenses to establish and operate had come out. From 2014 until today, seven years have passed and no authorisation to establish and operate has been issued. None! An amendment was tabled which really gives the possibility of temporary leave, without any safety issues, without any reductions in safety matters. I believe that in this way - it will, of course, prove to be the case in practice and the contribution of the other ministries, I want to be clear - we will be able to start this process and complete it. In a tourist country like Greece, waterplanes had to fly for many years. In conclusion, Mr President, we have presented a draft law which we hope will change first of all the attitude of a young man to make a diploma. We use technology in a way that makes things easier and not confusing, as happened with the law of SYRIZA. It also improves the training framework for candidate drivers. This is because it is all about trying to improve the level of road safety. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that, as we said at the outset, this bill has no parties, no labels. It is a bill, however, which we should all have with our standpoint - which was in both the committee and the plenary - to help build a new culture of high importance in the acquisition of a driving licence. I hope that you can come by consensus and vote for all of this with which you agree. Because it is a given that the presence of all of us in relation to road safety is only positive. Let us come here and prove it in practice. Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Dimitrios Kouvelas is called in Stepma from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, first let me express from the Step of the House my sorrow for the sudden death of Phophysic Gennamata, the woman, mother, politician, who fought bravely and is a winner in our hearts and our thoughts of its fighting throughout her family, political path. I express my sincere condolences to her family and her associates at KINAL. Minister, the bill that we are discussing today, I would say, puts the pillars of traffic education and culture in the structure of the right driving behaviour that we all agree we must build. Today's debate is taking place while public opinion is shocked at the two road accidents that took place in Thessaloniki, where a food distributor and a young girl cycling lost their lives by going to work. Of course, the state does not sit at the wheel of cars. But he has a responsibility to discipline our driving consciousness from young ages and to ensure that he who is taking a driving licence is able to safely drive for himself and others. This draft law incorporates precisely this new framework of rules which are part of the integrated road safety plan in our country. All Parliament's wings are required to agree on this need without grinding, having two pretexts: firstly, road safety means safer roads, it means better vehicles, but above all it means capable and more careful drivers. And, secondly, road safety and traffic behaviour, a new system of examinations of candidate drivers are issues which are not allowed to have a political ideological mark. I would remind you that on the governance of SYRIZA - ANEL you have brought a bill that has never been implemented in practice, finally showing failures, despite the good intentions you have certainly had. The in-vehicle camera device did not obtain the approval of the Personal Character Privacy Authority, but mainly other provisions that led to a frontal collision between the owners of driver schools with the Spirtzi Act. The abstention of civil servants from the relevant examinations was added to them and the result of all this was the absolute chaos. So for over twenty months, during the period 2016-2019, driver schools ceased operating in reality. They were found on the brink of bankruptcy as business and professionals. But the worst part is that in the summer of 2019 we found over a hundred and fifty thousand candidate drivers in a special hostage, unable to give tests. We then reintroduced the old system of examination temporarily to unblock this difficult situation and committed ourselves that the new modern system of examination will soon come along with a framework for driving behaviour that solves problems, but above all it will be possible to implement it in practice. This is being introduced into the House today. The Commission's hearing in the previous meetings saw the positive attitude of both the drivers' schools, the trainers, and the transport institutions towards the initiative in general. At the same time, the central objective of the legislation we are discussing is to put an end to the corruption phenomena that have existed for many years in the examination process of candidate drivers. We must admit that we must stop this situation, as well as another morbid phenomenon in which it was driving, that is, many young drivers first get a driving licence and then learn to drive. We are therefore ensuring the reliability of the tests and we are helping to get really good new road drivers out. As far as the basic innovations of the new framework are concerned, one would start from the first one that is incomprehensible tests that we achieve in three ways. First, the cameras enter the vehicles during the examination, but have already ensured in advance the written approval of the Personal Character Protection Authority, contrary to the previous period. Secondly, we increase credibility by broadening the body of examiners. It's not a case of a few more tests. Finally, we are putting an end to the delays that were taking place after increasing their number, giving the opportunity to any other civil servant who wishes, after having received appropriate training and accredited him, to become an examiner. So there's an end to the whispers for circuits, which all of us saddened. Third point of guarantee, we create the supervisor's institution, which enters the vehicle during the examination, supervise the procedure particularly when problems occur at an examination centre. Mr Karamanlis, Minister, I would like to express my complete satisfaction at your final introduction to the position of an examiner and instructor in the vehicle during the examination of the candidate driver. We had discussed this issue extensively at our meeting at the beginning of the year. I had taken you the position of the overwhelming majority of the instructors in the belief that they were right. I know that your issue has been too busy until the last minute. Be sure to make the right decision. The instructor shall be seated in the passenger's seat, as his presence creates a sense of safety both in the candidate driver and in the examiner sitting in the rear seat. Besides, with the camera in the vehicle any possibility of discriminatory behaviour in favour of the candidate driver is almost zeroed. Second innovation. We submit and establish the possibility of obtaining a diploma on specific terms from the seventeen years to the young children, with a more experienced driver next to them for the first year. It is another way to show that we trust our young people, who already have the right to vote in elections and to determine their future. Obviously, they can drive a vehicle after proper training and examinations. It is a good international practice implemented in many countries of the world, in most of the European Union. The theoretical test shall be updated, critical thinking strengthened. End of copying and dusts. In the practical examination, we will have a new classified process where knowledge about the operation of the car and the possibility of using pilots from the new drivers will also be seen. Fourth innovation is that full care is taken for disabled people and those with special educational needs. So, beyond special education, the possibility of interpreters for deaf people is provided for in another language, and those who do not know Greek that is to say. Of course, I would remind you that road safety means safer and better roads. It is a great deal of work that has been done and that has also been done on the road network. I would therefore add suitable bicycles. If you want, in the light of the tragic accident that took place in Thessaloniki the day before yesterday, I suggest that it is very strict that the official standards for the construction of bicycle roads be respected. The state should carry out this control and not be left to the mayor and to the possibilities available in each city. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to express my great satisfaction as an MEP. Mr. Ministers, we currently have an organization of infrastructure projects in the city of Thessaloniki. It is well known that the metro, despite the persistent efforts of some regrettable ones, would characterize them and obsessed with bringing justice against the common sense and the need at last for the city to acquire this work and emerge at the same time - it is the only way - the important archaeological findings, particularly at the Venizelos station, will proceed. So that will go ahead, there is no doubt. The OSH has been constantly reformed, it still needs an effort to enjoy the daily life that we really deserve. The port is interconnected, the Flyover enters and the upgrading of the regional road next year. The clock obviously shows Thessaloniki time with the signature of the leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u214	Parliament's clock shows ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u215	I don't forget Parliament's watch. Mr President, I'm out of order. Thank you all for your tolerance. To close, I insist on my proposal to introduce a traffic education course already in our primary school. Our children must have the basic principles of driving education from this young age. They too must understand what happens when they are in the car, so they will feel safer and in this way they will be able to make the biggest even better drivers of our own. So I would like our children, my children, to be the most severe judges of all of us when we are at the wheel. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, is called at Vima.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall start by referring to the amendments, first of all, starting with the amendment by the Ministry of Health, which comes at a tragic juncture where the fourth pandemic wave has been launched and taken uncontrolled. And all this confirms the criminal responsibilities that government policy has in managing the pandemic, where it has put all its money into individual responsibility and the vaccine, and that is why it has not taken any substantial measures to strengthen the public health system, the hospitals by creating new IFs, by recruiting permanent staff, but instead it is moving towards a number of patches, which, instead of dealing with the situation, make it even worse, for example by moving around, which in the amendment puts other specialities that can be moved from hospital to hospital. Example of a train to move doctors from the hospitals of Patras to the hospitals of Pyrgos, two hundred kilometers on a carniola road after exhausting hours. And you're saying that this is how you deal with the problems and gaps that exist in hospitals, with private doctors, which you increase and the overtime limit? However, they cannot be properly integrated into a hospital. The way the hospital operates is different, they cannot respond to the needs of hospitals with the same adequacy of a doctor who works in the hospital. Therefore, and the need to incorporate with increasing the newspapers of hospital doctors, which leads essentially to the depletion of human limits, and we see every day what doctors and, in particular, doctors in ICUs are experiencing. He's on his way to bazaars with health dealers. On the substance, that is, it supports the profitability of private clinics rather than ordering without any compensation at all. It forms tire protocols in the workplace in its name not to affect the profitability of business groups. Individual responsibility is the dominant government record leading to social automation and segregation between vaccinated and non-vaccination, where in essence non-vaccination is used to take a number of anti-vaccinatory measures, such as the suspension of work on doctors and nurses at this very time or the latest measures announced by the government yesterday for the invaders essentially and exclusively. And here comes a question: Are there closed spaces that stick to and must be tested by the invasive and other closed spaces that the pandemic does not fit? So public transport is not closed space? Shouldn't they have the same logic and there do tests so they can get in? The supermarkets are closed, aren't they? Why don't they test there so they can enter? Or in the churches, where is this enclosed space? There are a number of paradoxes here that cultivate precisely mistrust and irresponsibility. So one who's going to make a political marriage at the town hall and those who're going to have to run a test while in the church they don't need to run a test? What logic and how with this logic will you convince the world, which has not been vaccinated, to proceed with vaccines, when you cultivate exactly irrationalism, when you cultivate in political choices mistrust in the world? While you should have taken measures under the responsibility of the state for both vaccinated and unvaccinated, and for those who have not been vaccinated until now with a free test for all of them provided by the state. So, ladies and gentlemen of the government, two measures and two weights cannot be applied. Because in this way, distrust and irresponsibility cultivate. So we need concrete measures and we stress them. That is, firstly, protocols and measures to protect health and safety in the workplace and in the public transport sector, so that these areas are not the sources and sources of over-transmission of the pandemic. Upgrade hospitals with recruitment of permanent staff and create new IFs by converting existing contracts of indefinite duration into permanent contracts. Reopening of hospitals which closed under the responsibility of the new Republic - KINAL, but also SYRIZA - ANEL. Introducing the private sector without any compensation and creating a genuinely primary health care, which will operate on a 24-hour basis to also lead to decongestion of hospitals, but also at the same time also to have its responsibility for vaccination, with essential measures of personalised information and examination, with pharmacovigilance and with systematic post-vaccination monitoring of people. But all this is not on the government's agenda. And what do we now have with the amendment? To be able not only to donate but also to sell, he says, vaccines which are not used in our country in third countries. Only the fact that in these so-called African and Asian third countries only 2.8% of their population has been vaccinated shows the parasitic character, the rot of the system, the inhuman nature of the capitalist system, which the vaccine is a commodity. This logic also cultivates a number of irrational issues. So your hypocritical interest in the other governments of the European Union for the free disposal of vaccines in third countries is not about the peoples of these countries, but precisely about the participation of Greece in geopolitical toys, when vaccines are used as a means of penetrating these countries. And now, alongside your so-called charity, you are being added by law, with this amendment and the nature of the trader to sell these vaccines which are not being used. And this situation would have existed as long as it had been dealt with by the government and had taken all the measures to cover the full vaccination coverage of the population of our country. What did the Minister say? The ones that are on the expiry date. How long before or after? Or are we sending out and selling out the outdated vaccines to the inhabitants of third countries? So the protection of public health cannot be left to government policy. It must be the responsibility of the people. Secondly, there is the question of the amendments. I shall refer to the amendment that basically reintroduces the part of the Patras to the Tower - Chacona road into the original law. It was a contract that was a leontia, which only served the interests of the concessionaire and was at the expense of the people's needs. And from this point of view, we are saying this clearly: what kind of reintegration is this again? Is there a certain timeframe? No answer was given at all for the Patras - Tower section. No response to this timetable. When will it begin? When will the project be completed? How many tolls will there be in the context of this Leody Convention, which will create an extremely expensive toll for the people, a very expensive road? What kind of road is it going to be? What's his size gonna be? Is it going to respond to the need for safe movement of the world? Is there going to be a new engraving? And don't tell me now. Ten years we have been discussing the need for new engravings from Patras to Pyrgos, because it cannot destroy the residential areas that exist south of Patras, the new road. And that is precisely why it shows - if you insist on this engraving and do not move it elsewhere because of the increased costs of creating new engraving - that the safety of human life is simply a pretext for you. You prefer that human lives be lost rather than that engraving change. Will there be anti-military works along the road? I have a parentheses here, Minister. All road axes have been made so far without flooding. Why, anyway? Because it would increase costs, so there are many flooding phenomena which have been done precisely because of these particular road corridors without the specific flooding projects that would have existed. And from this point of view, the Ministry of Transport was forced to make a new gift to contractors of 500 million to make the necessary roadblocking projects. Thirdly, in this situation. Really, do you care so much about human life? Because you have formed a rail network that entangles whole regions. In the recent fire in the region of Aegialia, the danger of encapsulation of the world emerged through the rail engraving, when there was only a high bridge that could pass the fire extinguishers within a 10 km radius. So, in other words, the regions of Pekka, Bukas and Logos alone because the fire did not have much to do with disasters and there were no human losses, since fire-fighting vehicles could not have access. A similar situation exists throughout Aegiala, where you have entangled areas because of the specific engraving of the railway line without reading, without being able to move freely the large cars of the fire extinguisher, so that the world can be saved from them. This is, of course, done in the name of reducing the cost of building the railway line. So, in this reasonable cost reduction, you play in the roulette human lives. Minister, will you see these dangerous points? Will you take steps to deal with these mischiefs that put human life at risk? Are you going to answer that? And finally, for that specific axis of Tower - Chacona, what will be the truth? The blooms are unknown. In the dark, if there's gonna be integration to Chacona. Will Lake Caiapha be bypassed with the very important ecosystem he has? Because otherwise there can be no highway through Lake Kaiafa. Or are you going to completely degrade Lake Caiafa's ecosystem? Are you going to make a different engraving that bypasses Lake Kaiafa? Or, as some local players are pressing there, will the road instead of arriving to Chacona arrive to ancient Olympia? Because there is an interest in the manufacturer as well as the development of tourism, it is assumed, and not of human need. And from this point of view, entering into the essence of the bill, in which our special speaker, comrade Leonidas Stoltides, has been very detailed, the government's view of what road safety means. Only euphemism can we discuss the case of road safety, because you are simply limiting it to the examinations of obtaining a diploma on substance. Well, is that all road safety? The rest doesn't count? We are therefore discussing the licence to obtain a diploma. It's not a merchandise process, so in the end, it's a bad process? Isn't this a very expensive case for popular mattresses to obtain a diploma? Very accurate, of course. That is why they go to minimum, which in essence reduces the necessary driver training and the acquisition of traffic education, as you say. And precisely this commercialisation, that the patent is converted into a commodity that can be sold and purchased without the typicals it includes is the uterus of precisely interoperable and corruption. Does your bill deal with it? No, of course not. The logistical nature of the training of candidate drivers and the acquisition of a diploma shall be maintained. But road safety is not just how to obtain a license. Road safety is associated with infrastructure. What infrastructure have all governments done in previous years? Infrastructures needed to complete the trans-European networks, i.e. roads and railways to facilitate the carriage of goods more quickly, without obstacles, to ensure the profitability of major business groups. So you have created concessions for the people, with expensive tolls for the people and a guaranteed profit for the concessionaires. Because where revenues from tolls do not reach the mathematical formula, the State each year contributes to ensuring that the concessionaires receive a profit and with a reduction in operating costs. Really, do concessionaires operating the roads not have to keep the roads open to snow? And yet, for your governments, they do not have this responsibility - typically it can - because you are blocking roads with government decisions, so that roads with dangers are kept open, both for human life and for the movement of the world. Really, how did you get streets, highways, too expensive without lighting? Aren't the dark spots on these roads dangerous? I am also addressing SYRIZA - ANEL governments. Aren't these dangerous signs, in particular, streets and roads passing through mountains and mountain tumors, in winter, with rains, with fogs? And yet, they're dark streets, because they don't have lighting. Because this increases operating costs for the concessionaire. And the rest of the roads, which are not part of these trans-European networks, are roads which are essentially destroyed, roads which are dangerous, because you have absolutely no concern on the provincial road. It's just that some patches do, which not only do not face the situation, but turn them into even more dangerous for the movements of the world. The same logic exists in what you do as governments and your local players in municipalities and regions. Bicycles, he says. What bike route, really? With what security can a cyclist on a bike which is between cars and pedestrians and where cars, such as the bicycle road here, of the Great Walk, are to be turned by Mr Bakoyannis in Athens? When they have to turn right-hand cars and trucks, what kind of bike is that? Does it guarantee human life at all? We've seen it and seen it every day. On the contrary, it is just the logic of the European Union for sustainable mobility, which subjugates everything to the needs of capital and, at the same time, land and land planning, not to the safe movement of the world, but to how those who exploit the land and its value will gain. Second matter. Isn't safety related to what kind of vehicles are moving? And private vehicles are not related to each other's financial capacity? People's mattresses can have cars safe, cars maintained when they're expensive and their maintenance? There is no distinction here between deep and dangerous vehicles for their own needs and safety, old and mispreserved? Isn't there the logic that you're cultivating as governments through the media, electronics and forms, for fast cars, for large-scale cars as a model of degrading and demonstration to new children, so that we have the murder of the develerator in Thessaloniki with the horns made by the hairy cars in the city? What's that? With these standards, you cultivate road safety? Or is it not a security issue that in the media, which is mostly old, which are rottens that stack the world, you are further expanding the working and traffic time of these vehicles by your law? In fact, this goes to reason that "see, people must pay 5% of the CCEE tickets to renew their buses, fleet and infrastructure through these revenues". So far, what have the Kappa Kappa Tau have done? How much have they refreshed their fleet of this money paid by the employee, who is paying for it by the transferees? Instead of the new investments that the CBS will make in infrastructure and new buses through the profitability they generate, they are also the gains warmly in the pocket and the new buses at the expense of the people's strata. Does road safety not relate to the intensification of the work of professional drivers working under inhuman working conditions and living conditions, to the 'lady' hours and without resting? Does this not play a role in road safety and how these people will respond? You come to the point with the provision that you have in the law to go to pension at sixty-nine years, that is to say to extend the working time of professional drivers. With what courage, with what reflexes can they go to the steering wheel under endless hours, instead of being a heavy and unhealthy profession and getting out very quickly all these professional drivers to retire? But it also seems from the priorities of whether you want road safety, when it should be a priority of the government - and of your own and of the previous - to move the world through the mass transport of fixed tracks. Where's the railroad in our country? Where are the rest of the public transport of urban character in the rest of the cities? And what do you do about it? Nothing at all, because you are bringing this up to individual responsibility in the world and not to state responsibility, to provide the state with safe, massive, cheap transport that meets its needs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, in conclusion, Mr President - and I would like to conclude by thanking you - the design of all the urban governments and your own transport and the necessary infrastructures is based on the maximisation of profits, where urban anarchy by irrational movements from home to work create stress and pressure in the world. Road safety cannot be a personal matter. On the contrary, this policy, this logic, lies the JRC's proposal for a scientific central planning in the field of transport, for the exploitation of all forms of transport with a complementary role and not competitive with each other, with a priority in mass transport, with the development of a dense network of urban and ultra-urban mass transport, with priority on the means of fixed track. This is the concept of the JRC. However, this requires a radically different path of economic and social development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, too. You got your tritology, too. As we have fallen on a rock of commitments, I will now give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Apostolos Vésyropoulos, for Amendment 1119/28, and immediately after that, Mr Yoyakas and then to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mrs Arabatzi. Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to refer to the amendment number 1119 and number 28 tabled by the Ministry of Finance. Articles 1 to 10 have as a benchmark issues related to strengthening the role and functioning of the Games Supervision and Control Committee. In particular, because of the complexity of the issues the committee is required to deal with, Article 1 gives the committee the opportunity to provide legal support to lawyers with expertise on issues and assumptions relating to the work and the needs of the committee. The Committee may also conclude contracts with external partners for a limited period until the end of 2022 and other sectors related to the work of the Authority. In 2022, the work of new licenses for online games and casino businesses is expected to be completed with the corresponding guarantee of public revenue and the staffing process of the authority has been completed with specialised staff. Articles 2 to 5 of the Amendment regulate matters relating to the determination of the remuneration of members of the Committee on the Monitoring and Control of Games, as well as the members of the Board of Auditors serving in it. At the same time, it is planned to set up four cooperative positions to assist the work of the chairman of the committee, subject to scientific knowledge and professional experience on specific issues relating to the scope of the committee's responsibility. Article 6 of the amendment allows the committee to conclude programme contracts with other bodies and authorities in order to promote the national strategy for the toy in charge. Of course, we are talking about bodies specialising in psychosocial prevention and the treatment of gaming problems. These bodies include higher education institutions, university research institutes, research institutes and non-profit legal entities. Articles 7 and 8 provide for changes in the way the Toy Controllers' Corps of the Toys Supervisory and Control Committee is to be staffed, allowing members to be seconded or transferred to the Board of Directors serving at the beginning. It is also foreseen that members of the College of Toy Controllers, as well as staff of the Committee on Gambling Supervision and Control, who assists in the control, will perform their duties 24 hours a day and all the days of the week. This arrangement was imposed due to the specific requirements of the audit work on gambling not limited to five days. Article 9 of the Amendment provides for the setting up of paid committees or working parties of a non-permanent nature by public and private sector officials and experts to carry out specific projects and work, as well as for carrying out investigations or for the preparation of studies serving the objectives of the Committee. With the next article, Article 10, limits the number of days moving out of the members of the Board of Gaming Controllers from two hundred forty days to eighty days. I should like to point out here that any expenditure resulting from the implementation of these regulations will be covered by the budget of the Committee on Gambling Surveillance and Control. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall then refer to Articles 11, 12 and 13 relating to issues relating to tax policy and public property. In detail, through Article 11, we are attempting to resolve the inability to integrate the debts of those affected by the pandemic into the regulation of Article 289 of Law 4738/2020. I am referring to the regulation of thirty-six and seventy-two-dose. What, then, is the new element brought about by this arrangement? The new element is that the scope of the debts that can be included in the regulation of thirty-six and seventy-two instalments is widened and that those debts which have been subject to the fixed arrangement of twenty-four or forty-eight instalments are now available. A prerequisite is to be that the debts of natural persons, professionals or legal persons and legal entities affected by the measures to deal with the pandemic with a principal activity code included in the decisions of the Minister of Finance and temporarily closed on a public mandate any period from 27 October 2020 to 31 July 2021 and have been subject to the fixed arrangement after 27 October 2020. In order to fit into the regulation of thirty-six and seventy-seven-dose doses, the fixed arrangement should be in force and the October dose should be paid by 15 November. Article 12 of the amendment refers to the concession of the use of public land for the purpose of the installation of submarine power and telecommunications cables for the interconnection of islands or rock islands with the mainland. This arrangement is an addition to Law 2971/2001 for the sea and the beach, and in particular paragraph 2 of Article 14 thereof. In this arrangement, the application of this provision for the concession of a public area is limited solely to the needs of the interconnection projects of the islands with the telecommunications network and the electricity transmission network and the process is accelerated. As you all know, this is a necessary treaty to extend broadband, but also to ensure energy efficiency and the seamless electricity supply of the islands. I must point out that the introduction of underwater fibre cables strengthens the interconnection of mainland Greece with the islands. This, after all, is one of the strategic objectives of both the green transition and the digital transformation of the country. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, I will need another minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u220	Please, Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u221	These are projects already included for financing under the Recovery Fund. Basically, it's an arrangement with a socially beneficial character and a goal. Article 13 of the amendment suspends until 31 March 2022 the execution of demolition and expropriation protocols for works existing before 9 March 2021 and built on the sanctuary, the beach, the bank, the coastal zone, the water element, the bottom and the ground of the seabed, the lagoon, the lake and the river bed without a concession decision for their use. The aim of this time extension is to allow for the completion of possible legalisation and settlement procedures, which were not available in the previous period, due to the specific circumstances created by the pandemic. Finally, Article 14 deals with the need to adopt a transitional regime in institutions, within the meaning of Law 2879/2000, which are directly involved in UK-based settlement systems. Ladies and gentlemen, the set of arrangements for the amendment that I have just analysed is a reasonable institutional intervention by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and they can obtain a broad majority and consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. I have just been informed by the President of Parliament that Mr Karamanlis did the first rapid test and found himself positive. Now he's also tried to make molecular. We'll see what happens. However, we will suspend the sitting to evacuate the Chamber and take all the necessary steps. You'll find out when we're going to continue. I guess tomorrow, because the Health Service has to do its job. So I wish you a good time with Panagia! So we interrupt the meeting to see what the Minister will say about the molecular test, and then we see.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u223	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u224	Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u225	I just wanted to say that we wish it would be something passing through and Mr Karamanlis would be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u226	We all wish that to Mr Karamanlis!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u227	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u228	Here, Mr. Kelles, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u229	We hope that the Minister will be happy and that he will soon be healthy. We also wish it would be asymptomatic if possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u230	Of course, Mr. Kelles!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u231	Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u233	Here, Mr Goka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u234	For our part, we would also like to hope that the whole development of the health of the Minister is unpleasant.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u235	We all wish that!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u237	Here, Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u238	It's enough, I think, to talk about our own wholehearted wishes. We first hope that the PCR test will be submitted by the Minister to be negative. In any case, we wish for a rapid recovery to the Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-03-S1-commons.u239	The sitting is closed. Time expired: 17.06.
