ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 3-2-2021 authorisation, the minutes of the IGC of Wednesday, 3 February 2021 concerning the vote on all draft laws: ‘Preparation of the Interim Economic Partnership Agreement between Ghana, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part’, ‘Preparation of the Agreement for the Protection of Investments between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part’, ‘Preparation of the Agreement for the Protection of Investment between the European Union and its Member States, of the other part’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the current Questions Release of Friday, February 5, 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 361/29 - 1-2021 of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros - Christos Ayloniti to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Actions to restore the image of abandonment caused by arbitrary structures within the moat of the Old Fortress Corfu". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 359/28 - 1-2021 of the Member of the Eitolokarnania Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Let a immediate solution be given to the work of refreshing the Mornos plains." 3. The Question No 352/25 - 1-2021 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament B3' South Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Taking over the serious problem of dispersal between mutant coronary and ming." B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 362/29 - 1-2021 of the SYRIZA MP Messinia - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros (Alexis) Greeting to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Announcing without a reaction to modernization and the development of the airport "Captain Vasilis Konstantakopoulos" of Kalamata". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 364/1-2-2021 by the Member of the Ilias of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: 'Will the producers of Elias be compensated for the damage suffered by the koroni'. 3. The Question No 358/28 - 1-2021 by MP B1' North Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Surprise announcement of intent to convert five public museums into Legal Persons of Public Law". 4. Under No 363/29 - 1-2021 a timely question by SYRIZA Deputy Magnesia - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "An impediment to the profession of Football Coach from Physical Education (SEFA & TEFA)". 5. The 370/1-2-2021 topical question by MP Eitolokarnanias of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘Application of Analog Tolls on the Ionian road and a reduction of the toll toll on the bridge ‘Charilaos Trikoupis’ (Rios-Antiri)’. 6. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Dangerous to the monument of Themistoklis and radical alteration of his historic location from the port to Piera". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under No 128/34/6-10-2020, and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingarou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Importance between producers of transparency and unequal treatment of areas in the allocation of rights from the National Reserve from 2017 onwards’. Furthermore, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for communication and information matters, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, the Finance, Development and Investment Ministers, the Civil Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Culture and Sport, Justice, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Foreign Affairs submitted a draft law on 3 February 2021: ‘Integration into national law of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2010 on the coordination of certain laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services, as amended by Directive (EU) 2018/1808 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 and other provisions relating to the competence of the General Secretariat for Communication and Information’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Action of General Censuses of the year 2021 by the Hellenic Statistical Authority, urgent arrangements to address the impact of the COVID Pandemic - 19, urgent financial and tax arrangements and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 28 January 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and amendments. In particular, the organisation of the debate is proposed in addition to the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives, as well as ministers, and two circles of speakers involved in a physically present debate. Each cycle will include twelve speakers with the following ratio: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. Two circles of speakers will also be added to this debate by teleconferencing via the Webex platform. Each cycle will consist of twelve speakers with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Theodoros Karaoglou, has the floor for 15 minutes. I would ask that the time be respected. This is an appeal to all the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the colleagues who will follow. Mr. Karaoglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u3	Respectful Bureau, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, any effective management of a crisis, whether it is health or economic, requires strategy, patience and soundness, that is to say, to act in the present direction with a view to the future. And to achieve this, you have to set the goals to be achieved in time, meet the current needs, and have the foresight to predict those that arise. The bill by the Ministry of Finance, which I have the honour of presenting to Parliament today, is the tangible proof that the Government of the New Democracy and the Kyriakos Mitsotakis is on the way with all three features. It tackles the health crisis and the economic impact with wisdom, self-sufficiency and social sensitivity, ensuring for all affected a valuable second opportunity. It is an economic and social contract of confidence signed by the state with society, committing that none of our fellow citizens will be left alone and unprotected in this unpretected test of the world. It is a contract that will keep us together and allow us to speak on more favourable terms for the future, because trust is the link between every modern democracy, which connects a citizen and a state, thereby setting strong foundations for a prosperous and powerful state. The basic conditions of the confidence I have just mentioned are the realistic vision, openness and visible optimism, which gives rise to effective response and state management in the two heavy waves of pandemic. So the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that the orderly state has opened up in time an umbrella of protection for workers, businesses and vulnerable social groups and our fellow citizens have been persuaded and recognise that in this crisis they are not alone. They were caught by the help hand offered by the state, took valuable breaths and prepared for the moment the next day will dawn when the storm is cut. The regulations, ladies and gentlemen, contained in the Finance Ministry's bill, provide an effective treatment for the financial consequences of the pandemic. They are helping catalysts to detach businesses, guaranteeing jobs and, of course, ensuring the necessary social cohesion. It is the persuasive answer to those who rushed to take advantage of the circumstances, seeking to turn the spark of anxiety into a fire of frustration. The persistence of the opposition parties at the meetings of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to vote against the draft law at first, or to deal with it with a reservation, has surprised me negatively and has troubled me because I have seen a small political feasibility. A negative vote in this piece of legislation is not a vote against the government, but it is a vote against workers, against businesses, against those who are tested. That is why I asked all Parliament's forces to assess it responsibly. As the social partners recognized at Monday's hearing, the provisions contained are beneficial and act as a squash of uncertainty. We are in line with society, we are listening to its demands, and we are adapting them to the demanding today, as the relationship of politics is two-way with society, as it is expelled from it and exercised for it. The economy, ladies and gentlemen, has endured, the market itself, and it is our duty to build on it, to express the new one. Take note of a particularly interesting element. According to the GFCM, more than thirty and a half thousand enterprises started activities in 2020. The inceptions were more than twice the deletions, which just marginally exceeded the thirteen thousand sixteen thousand. What does that show us? It shows us that there are tolerances, which are obviously not inexhaustible. These resistance supports and strengthens the Treasury's bill. But let us now come to the analysis of the draft law under discussion. The bill is divided into three parts and contains forty-three articles. Part I consists of twenty-five articles and concerns the performance of General Censuses of the year 2021 by the Hellenic Statistical Authority. Part II contains five articles, from the 20th to the 30th, which constitute a package of economic support measures for enterprises and the entire business world, which experience the economic consequences of the pandemic. Finally, Part C consists of thirteen articles and contains urgent financial and tax arrangements. I shall dwell on some articles which give the signal of government policy, because as a matter of urgency time is short and does not allow me to refer to each article in detail. Articles 26 and 27 describe the 100% exemption from the rental obligation, i.e., for the months of January and February of 2021 for enterprises with a government mandate. In this case, the lessor will receive from the state budget an untaxable 80% tax, if he is a natural person, or 60%, if he is a legal person, compensation, which is tax-free - I stress it - and it is already something very important for the owners of these property. Article 28 provides facilitation for the payment of securities. Those cheques, exchange and payment notes appear from 2 to 25 January 2021 shall not be entered in the ‘TEIRESIA’ if they are paid within seventy-five days of their sealing or termination. An extension of seventy-five days will be received and those securities have an expiry date or payment date from 25 January 2021 until 28 February 2021. Those who have a date from 18 November 2020 to 31 December 2020 and are covered by the measure of suspension of their closing or payment deadlines by seventy-five days, will have the possibility of having an extension of forty-five days in the suspension of the relevant fees. But there is provision in the bill and for securities bearers. In particular, those holding cheques, exchange cards or notes exceeding 20% of their average monthly trading cycle shall be entitled to an extension until 31 May 2021 of the time limit for the payment of certified VAT debts which expired or expired from 1 to 31 January 2021. However, an extension shall also be made to the time limit for the payment of VAT established or established on the final date of payment on 31 January 2021 and 28 February 2021. Finally, those in their hands who have securities that exceed 50% of their average monthly trading cycle, for those securities that they themselves have to receive the benefit of not being registered in “TELECOMM” if they pay them within seventy-five days. However, it is also very important that Article 29, which comes to cover the lack of liquidity in companies, is also very important. In the present case, the Greek State undertakes to cover, with its own funds, fixed operating costs of the firms affected. Enterprises benefiting from the new business aid scheme should face a reduction in turnover of at least 30% compared to the corresponding period of 2019. The aid - it is very important - has retroactive effect since 1 March 2020, while with the new coverage framework, the total amount that each undertaking can receive is increased from EUR 3 million, originally set, to EUR 10 million. With Article 30, we are practically supporting the main air carrier of the country with a grant which enables the company "AEROPORIA AEGE" to continue on its flight path. This is how we ensure thousands of existing jobs and, at the same time, allow the company to draw up a new flight plan without turbulence. The main condition is the increase in private equity of EUR 60 million, with full payment being certified. Also, I want to stand in Article 33 of Part III of the bill. Thanks to this, income obtained from agricultural aid and subsidies for the tax year 2021, but reverted to tax year 2020, is exempted from the special solidarity contribution provided for in Article 43A of the Code on Income Tax. Finally, as a declared fan of HRAKLI Thessaloniki, the country's most historic group along with the Panathinaikos - I do not want to blame the Athenians! - which counts a hundred and thirteen years of multi-level offer and presence in the sports, social and national events of Greece in general, I make a special reference to Article 41.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u4	Olympiacos?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u5	I don't blame Olympiacos. I don't forget you either! In this way, the use of the properties of the Association in Chortatzis and Mikra in the club "NEOS GYNATIC COLLECTION OF THESSALONIC HERAKLIS 1908" to meet the sports needs of the Association is granted without consideration. Thus, the Association that has offered the country heroes and discrimination will overcome the obstacles of yesterday, will remain at its home and will continuously continue its sporting activity. I have chosen to describe these articles to show the importance of voting for the whole House. Honestly, I am asking what fellow Member will refuse to vote in favour of extending the reduction in the renting of professional leases, who will say 'no' to exempt 100% from the obligation to pay rent for January and February 2021, the companies that were closed up, who will say 'no' to suspend the payment of securities and to grant facilities for their holders, who will vote against the new aid scheme through the grant of fixed costs. Furthermore, who will dismantle on the ground with his vote the country's main air carrier, leading to unemployment in this way thousands of workers, when the same practice as the Greek Government followed many other countries. For example, France, Italy, Cyprus, Austria, Germany, Sweden, Finland. Ladies and gentlemen, we are fighting a difficult balance between health security and budgetary stability. The conditions are unprecedented, which is why, as a government, we are concerned about the well-being of our compatriots. The Greeks and Greeks are the greatest wealth in our country, so we must also emphasise the census bill. It is included in Part I of the bill and has twenty - five articles. 2021 is a great year for Hellenism, it is a year - milestone, because it is completed for two hundred years by the revolution of March 25, 1821, by the National Palaggenesia, an anniversary that is worth celebrating with pride. Through the general population census mentioned in the bill, we will count not only statistically, but also essentially. We all know, ladies and gentlemen, that hypogenicity is, unfortunately, our biggest national problem. It is a bomb on the ground of the country, which undermines the existence of the nation and our statehood. ELSTAT's recent figures are frustrating as they confirm that the Greeks do not only minimize populations, but are also growing rapidly. As I pointed out in my speech to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, 2020 in addition to the coronary year is the year that has been recorded a record of deaths for our country over the past twenty years. Hold on to the following worrying figures according to ELSTAT's forecast: In 2050 Greeks will be barely nine million, and in 2070 we will have fallen to eight and a half million when our neighbour, for example, will have exceeded the percentage of millions. Consider also that in 2019, for which we have completed statistics, births amounted to eighty-three thousand seven hundred sixty-three children, while in 2018, the births in Greece were eighty-six thousand four hundred forty children. On the contrary, in 2019, deaths recorded an increase of 3.9% compared to 2018 after reaching a hundred and twenty-four thousand ninety-five deaths in 2019 compared to a hundred twenty-two thousand ninety-six in 2018. It is obvious from the above figures, ladies and gentlemen, that radical areas and interventions are needed to tackle the demographic problem. Besides, the future or planning or undermining the consequences of inaction. It is therefore our patriotic duty to support the Greek family, and it is a national responsibility to stand by it with respect. All this is part of the national plan that we have drawn up for the post-COVID period, the day in which we are sure that Greece will be on the side of the winners. The war with the coronary will be won with a weapon by the determination of society, the strength of the national economy and the responsibility of the present government, which gives the great fight to stand by households and businesses. This war against the invisible enemy is not easy and unfortunately it has losses. We know the reality and we fully understand the consequences of pandemic in many areas of the economic life of the country, such as tourism, focus, the spectacle, the retail trade. But we have managed the greatest health threat mankind has ever experienced in the last hundred years. We have repeatedly referred to the support measures that we have taken, always ensuring that we maintain valuable equipment for the follow-up, i.e. that we secure cash. Because this process is a lasting, dynamic process, continuous and not linear. The mutations of the virus give birth to a new reality that we are called upon to face and we must be particularly careful. It is therefore an hour of responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. I therefore urge the Opposition instead of sterile criticism and easy crowns made headlines in the friendly press to recruit your common sense in favour of a bill that responds to the agony and challenges of times. Once you stand on the right side of history, really stand on the side of society, really stand next to our tested compatriots. Act self-evidently and vote in favour of the Treasury bill. Because, ladies and gentlemen, a vote in this bill is a positive vote for each Greek and every Greek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u6	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The special rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Papanatsiou, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. The bill we are debating today was introduced to the House to discuss last week in a climate of banning meetings. The truth is that your government is trying in the midst of a pandemic full - time attack on society and rights. You continue to legislate as if nothing had happened. On the one hand, you are constantly talking about an extraordinary treaty and, on the other, you are continuing to deregulation of the work and the structural characteristics of public education. And after you leave the crisis management to the Minister of Public Order at the same time, your relics leave you exposed to society and irresponsible to public health. You're messing with the world, gentlemen of the government. First, the vaccines that never came and those that came ran out of priority with party time to catch up with members of the government. Secondly, the patent for the vaccine that could not be a public good, but the Council of Europe can ultimately disprove you of its logic of proposing the President of SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras. Thirdly, the lack of mass tests, the situation in the means of transport. Move with a view to seeing and doing society with a switch and inexorably lockdown. Your social sensitivity has been added in the last few days and the statements made by the Minister of Development. Mr. Minister, do you agree with the statements made by this Minister? We've asked you many times. For the keys I mean, he'll pick up on the people of the focus when he delivers them. From the beginning we have said that what you are trying to achieve in the economy is a kind of squeeze on market shares. But its pandemic and socio-economic consequences cannot be tackled by austerity and authoritarianism. Unfortunately, however, you do not know. He's the one you know very well, he's the one you've been carrying out for so many years, he's the one that's still going on in the pandemic. The restrictive measures require broad consensus and a security climate and not a generalised insecurity climate. The generalised insecurity climate is reflected in economic and social indicators. It is also apparent from all studies that have been made public in recent months. Let's look at the recent investigations. The most recent survey by the Institute of GSEE clearly illustrates the intensity of the climate of economic and labour insecurity. The increasing concern of workers about the changes brought about by the pandemic period is also reflected in relation to their wages and working rights. What does the investigation tell us? According to its findings, then, we have a loss of income of over 31%, this states 22% of the respondents. While 14% declares a loss of income from 21% to 30%. At the same time, six out of ten employees, i.e. 58%, are pessimistic about the development of their wages for the next six months. Now we're going to another investigation in the GSE investigation. We also heard at the hearing of the bodies its President, Mr Kavatha, told us to analyse it. What does this investigation record? The income of households based on business income decreased in 2020 by 27.2%. The investigation also finds that households belonging to the middle-income groups have been reduced is the middle-class that you would support, masters of the government, and with your election announcements. I cite an example from the survey again: Income category 18.001 to 25.000 fell by five points. At the same time households increased with an annual income of up to 5,000. 2020 was 6% while 2019 was at 4.6%. It is also noteworthy that the survey shows that households' debts are increased to the public by seven percentage points. At the same time, what is most worrying is that we have a parallel increase in the difficulty of paying these commitments in 2021. Debts have been expanded very much and have become unbearable large. Finally, one in two households, 52.8%, assess the economic support measures taken by the government as insufficient or rather inadequate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u8	Will you testify to the study, please, in the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u9	It's the study of GSE. It's posted, Minister. GSEW's study is up. It's not my study. GEBEE's details. The day-to-day lives of citizens are not the findings of the above studies. You don't have a driver. You don't have a plan. You keep businesses and workers in a hostage. Unfortunately, it seems that your arrogance makes you not see reality. As far as the draft law is concerned, during the committees we have been on issues which, in our opinion, have not been clarified. Let's look a little more thoroughly. In the first chapter of the draft law, in substance, we have a formal ratification, which is actually repeated every decade. ELSTAT follows international rules and standards for this reason. It concerns the censuses of buildings and the population, which are carried out every 10 years. Similarly, we have the census of agriculture and livestock. In the second part of the bill, we have rules on aid, because of a pandemic. We have some objections here, which we have referred to in the committees. I'll report them again. Point one. We have Articles 26 and 27 for the rents. The provision is a positive intervention, because it has direct aid to the leasers, which is something that comes closer to SYRIZA's proposals. At this point we have to tell you, although you said so last time in committee, Minister, that it took you ten months to adopt it. I'll tell you exactly what our proposal was. From the outset you could have proceeded with a rental subsidy, which would have been a simpler and less time-consuming process. But there are two issues here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u10	Are you filing her?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u11	Minister, our proposal was clear. I'll give it to you later. Don't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u12	You should testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u13	I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u14	Minister, please don't interrupt. You will be given the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u15	There are two issues. Firstly, we will first see the negatives of your proposal and tell you what we have proposed. Let's talk about it, Minister. You should see the application of the subsidy to legal persons. We're waiting for the answer. You didn't explain. We have some reservations about legal persons. Where are your answers? We have not received any answers to the committee. Which legal persons does this occupy? Do you have any pictures? We're asking for explanations. We are not negative with the provision, Mr Ministers. We need some explanations, because we too need to know what we are going to vote on. We asked you to do so in the committees too. We're waiting for the answer. Let's go to second. ‘subsidisation measures’, as you bring it. What have we seen? That it benefits more from the very high incomes of rents - you know that rent incomes are taxed on their own - since from a point of replacement and the amount collected by the lessees will generate a higher income, even tax-free than that normally collected. Let me say it for example. It's 80% the rent subsidy you give the leaser, 40% of his tax payout. He's coming to get more money with the tax-free money than he'd get from the hirer. What were we now talking about in our programmes, in 'Stage upright I' and 'Stage upright II'? We were talking about immediate liquidity to meet the current needs of citizens and businesses and to avoid the accumulation of superfluous debts. When we mentioned the amounts we were asking for direct aid, it included all these issues. It also included fixed business needs, including rents, including all other liabilities to the public and insurance funds. In addition, in the announcements we made at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, our President included the rental subsidy last September in our programme more specifically because you had not accepted the proposals that we made for direct aid in the previous period with our "We stay upright I" programmes and "We stay upright II". That is why we have included this in our programme. Point two. It is worth talking about the new framework for the set-aside subsidy for businesses. However, you do not see anything at all. On the contrary, you refer everything to a joint ministerial decision. We have heard the Minister's statement on the provision introduced by the new freezing subsidy instrument. The Minister noted that what is provided for in the committee's communication will also be provided for in the Greek context. What we understand from the Minister's words is that the terms and limits of the subsidised expenditure will be implemented as will the types of enterprises involved. What has not been answered and has to be answered and we ask you, Minister, to reply to us, not so much for our own complacentness, but because professionals must know about it, because they must not be hostages, they must do their planning, it is this: whether this is a loan or a subsidy. A very simple one we ask to know. We waited for the committees, but it wasn't clear. We would like it to be clear today. To remind you that the government has put forward many excuses for a European framework when SYRIZA asked that the aid to be non-refundable. We've put it in our first positions. It's something other states have done. After all, you also adopted it in part in return four and five. How could you then before you couldn't? Point 3. The Government chooses to strengthen the air carrier without at least doing so with some prerequisites, such as protecting jobs and directly buying shares. At the moment with the provision as it stands, the state will strengthen the company, but it will not have any direct gain, as it acquires, again, without any prerequisite, rights to acquire shares. Any gain, if it comes from, will be from the upward price of the share and if the company asks to buy out the public right. That doesn't sound very beneficial, gentlemen of the government. We are also waiting here - Mr Tsakalotos has asked for some clarification - your responses from the Minister so that we can see what is going on with the contract that you are going to make with AEGEAN. Fourthly, the integration of projects into the Public Investment Programme. The budget says that the fund's resources will contribute 2.1% to GDP. In other words, about 45% of the total development planned for the year will come from the Fund's resources. We have also told you in the budget debate. We're telling you now. The forecasts of the financial staff for rapid disbursement of funds appear clearly out of reality. There are two questions to be asked here. Are you prepared, gentlemen, for the financial staff, if the advances and approvals are ultimately delayed? Is there a plan for budget numbers? Secondly, in addition to this procedure, if a project to finance is now adopted, but is not approved later by the fund, what will happen? Even the Minister for Parliamentary Control referred to a strong possibility of funding from the Fund for these projects. I did not see anyone asking about the need to support projects in the public and private sectors, but we should find out what these projects are. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u16	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u17	I repeat that to come up with such a provision means that you know what projects you want to support, what projects you want to integrate, what ripe, so that they can move forward immediately. Why don't you let the Delegation know? We expect the committees. Today we would like to have more information. In conclusion, I would like to tell you that I have outlined above the axes of your policy with our own disagreements, of course, in all areas of the social state. You have opened a full front fight against the majority of society. The trio of your policy is austerity, authoritarianism, limitation of rights. The situation in the real economy and society is difficult. You should stop considering that you have the only truth, listen to the institutions, listen to the opposition, all the opposition that criticizes you and seriously design support for society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u18	Thank you too, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, may I speak on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u20	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u21	What I wanted to say is that it would be wise and good to hold the debate whenever each party's rapporteur is in favour of or against the bill at least at the beginning of the procedure. Because we heard the honourable Member - rapporteur of SYRIZA, who, after all this position, did not say what will ultimately do with the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u22	That's not what you're gonna say. Leave it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, can I have the floor for half a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u24	Here you go, Mrs. Papanatsiou, give this clarification. It's necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u25	You probably didn't hear my speech. You did not hear that once again I asked the Ministers. We are therefore waiting for their replies and we will tell you what we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u26	So it's a reservation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u27	Without prejudice. We told the committees. It's nothing new. We're waiting. You haven't even followed the committees. I'm really sorry. We're waiting for the answers and we'll tell you what we're going to vote on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u28	Let me make a general remark not on the basis of this bill but on the basis of it. When they go to a law to be interpreted by the judges, they go back to the report. Many issues that we are seeing here, if all the speakers - I will not say the rapporteurs alone, etc. or the speakers, but also the MPs, are also a little overthrown in the report, many problems and questions are solved. I say this in general and do not think it is a case of this. The special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr Scandalides, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are watching these days, day after day, hour after hour, the dramatic worsening of the consequences of the third wave of pandemic, as the entire Greek people are watching it, I would say, bouquets and troubled, unsafe and seeing a future very difficult. It is a process that makes our discussions on economic planning and objectives and other rather philosophical. We have lived through the first cycle of pandemic, where in fact in a universal, but with a successful, supportive way for all of us, we have overcome it in a very successful way. The government rested on its laurels, resulting in preparations for the second wave being, while all anticipated and anticipated, incomplete and improper, with consequences that we experienced for them in the past few months. And now we have entered a dramatic period with the third wave and I would say that it is time for the Prime Minister to take a brave initiative. Instead of daily confronting the multilingualism of the ministers and the multilingualism of the special scientists - infectious ones who say their own opinion for a few minutes of publicity, cause a national alarm and in consultation with all the parties in Parliament to find, discuss and decide, to have a common confrontation campaign, instead of talking about criticism or not to the government or anything else. I think this initiative would be very important at the moment and would show that we are standing at the height of a situation which, if things evolve, will be dramatic for our country, for its economy, for our path, for all of this. I felt the need to make this proposal, because I think it is time now, even now, for the Prime Minister to take such an initiative. It is his responsibility for manoeuvres, after all. I would like, before entering the articles, to say about three issues relating to the bill, some which I consider important, some general points. The first concerns the financing of AEGEAN. We were in favour of the financing strategy. I believe, as is happening throughout Europe, that the air carrier cannot respond to the needs and problems it has at this stage would be very bad and would have huge negative results for all of us and for the traffic in the country in general. I think, therefore, that no one can object very strongly to this. Based on your proposal, the State will get back some of the guarantee after at least two years, the amount of which depends on the company's subsidy. Assuming that the increase in two years reaches its value in February 2020, which was in its peak, the company, that is to say, doubled the price of the company, we made a rough calculation and what will get the public back is from 120 million to 35 million. If he has processed more and the Minister can enlighten us, he would be very well. The government could choose another way, a long-term loan with ten interest-free instalments that could be repaid in a period of time, in ten years, for example. He could choose a returnable deposit type proposal. He could make a lot of choices different from the one he made. I have asked, Minister, that you bring us today the agreement made by the German State with LUFTHANSA, because, in my opinion - perhaps it is a little advanced - one might think that the Greek State could ensure and control in a way, not interfere with the company's daily business, but has given the money from the misery of the Greek people, so that the company can function. I think they could also find more progressive ways of dealing with the substance. I think what you've chosen doesn't solve our problems. I wish you could enlighten us on this particular and convince us. Secondly, there is in Article 39 a case that is considered small for many. It is the ad hoc solution to the problem of the Municipalities of Pluralism and so on. I think it is right that what you have done and what you will probably do and what you will do with the adjoining municipality that is in the problem, as you have said. Because I have an experience of these, when I was at the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Rural Development, and because many accuse the previous ones, all governments that forty-five and a hundred years these problems are not solved, it is - as I remember well - ten to fifteen cases throughout the country. Instead of striving to bring for each one, after two, three, five years, a proposal for a solution, let the Ministry make an investigation in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Development and Regional Planning and bring a comprehensive solution - a uniform arrangement, which will end this wound. It is a wound, an unbelievable wound that shows the inability of the Greek state to face problems that have been decades old. It is an observation, an overall regulation that should be made in this direction, and I think the government could consider it. There is also a third point concerning Article 42, a fundamentally serious issue which is the pre-accession of projects - on the basis of the European Union's decision - that is, the possibility of integrating projects, not ex post approval, but of pre-accession and then moving forward, through the Reconstruction Fund, etc., to finance them. This is a significant change for European things, but I feel that the way the government chooses, in particular the absolutely centralised way this process is going to be, will be a great temptation to selective policies in project funding and project selection, which will raise huge questions. I would like you to suggest a process of participation in the final decision-making process - a proposal you are sending for the prior approval of projects, a procedure for monitoring and participating in the evaluation. It's something about the governance model. I do not have the hope that the Prime Minister can get into such a logic, because he is out of his logic, obviously, as I see he makes the Maximus and the more general way of governance. In any case, I am bound by my position to ask for this issue - which will be the next difficult issue to be addressed by a political and party confrontation, which can be foreseen from now on and for this process of pre-accession of projects to be carried out properly - to be such an initiative, if you wish, on the part of the government. These are the three issues I wanted to raise in relation to some individual articles. For Articles 26 to 30, the urgent arrangements for dealing with the effects of the pandemic, I would say that my remarks are simple. The first case, namely Article 26, is a reasonable provision, but the planned rent subsidy - which is provided for in the next article - could resolve the issue. There are still cases that have not even been declared since last November and there are people who want to make objections, etc. You must deal with this in a way, open the procedure, to cover these cases. In the article on securities, the provisions are reasonable to some extent. However, if the government had adopted a serious liquidity programme through bank lending and the repayment system for all companies, these suspensions would not be necessary, the securities that distort the market. We emphasised next time, when discussing the issue, that it cannot remain so much billions of euros from the liquidity provided by the European Central Bank as deposits of the Greek banks at the Bank of Greece, instead of falling into the market. There could be a much braver policy when it comes to this process. As far as the state aid is concerned, it is in the form of a subsidy for fixed costs, and this is in the specific situation where we are living a reasonable measure, but it is too late, and it seems to be immature announcement, because it does not even provide for what fixed costs it will cover, and it refers to the framework for a decision by the Ministers for Economic and Social Affairs. We hope that it will not be designed with the manipulation and selectivity of 'TEPT II'. As far as Articles 31 to 42 are concerned, apart from the two I mentioned on urgent budgetary and tax arrangements, most of them are reasonable, although questioned why they were not provided for. Some have purely technical character and others have some degree of vagueness. Perhaps from the debate that will arise here you will give us more enlightenment so that the final position we take will be positive. Finally, as far as Articles 1 to 25 are concerned, I would suggest that you, Mr Minister, cooperate with ELSTAT and ask you to check the mechanism that will be done and the specific data, because it is a golden opportunity to have a greater imprint of the Greek reality, its stratification, its spatial structure and, at the same time, to provide us with valuable data, so that we can create a new database, because the way that is now being done is much more modern and digitised to a very large degree. So I think this is a golden opportunity and conclusions need to be drawn. One sentence is that. The second proposal is programming. You always know that the census process is linked to the distribution of seats, with a number of things involved in political developments, in election time, etc. It would be advisable to have a strict timetable for the completion of this process, so that we have a smooth course and not to use the inventory as an element that could possibly interfere with political developments. I say this because we also have the vote on the impoverished, we have so many things ahead of us, which are too great. The census this time has a tremendously critical character, and it will also be the opportunity, as I said at the outset, to give us a great deal of evidence. We, Minister, will vote for the bill at first, because we believe it has articles which obviously have a positive character and in each article we reserve, after the debate we are having here all day long, to take a position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr Scandalides, especially for keeping time. I will now give the floor to the special rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Today's bill may be confusing in the most characteristic way what, from the first moment the government started the alleged measures to manage the consequences of the pandemic, we point out, for which we also criticise the government, that the measures it attempts to support the economy from the consequences of the pandemic and the deep economic crisis under way are not translated in the same way for everyone. You see, economic endurance is not the same tolerant for everyone. Millions of hot money, but also a lot of facilities, go to the big business groups and at the same time throw away all the crumbs that are spared to the self-employed, small professionals, poor farmers and ask them to be happy. So, in the articles of the same legislation, we have, on the one hand, the gross subsidy of EUR 120 million of hot money in AEGEAN and, on the other, the various temporary measures that have been suspending debts for a few months, such as the extension, for one month of the date of payment of cheques, which, of course, are added together with so many other debts, which, for thousands of small consumers, traders, other small enterprises will be converted into a definitive package in the next few months, that is, when they will be faced with the payment of their full debts to banks, insurance funds, creditors and will be in danger of losing what they have and do not have, since for them the only second opportunity given, are the seizures and auctions you have secured them by the Banking Code. Of course, it is a challenge to present the subsidy to AEGEAN as supposedly necessary to secure thousands of jobs, as you have seen with a number of other business aids. However, the reality comes ruthless to disprove you, when there have been dozens of redundancies throughout Greece over the past few months, redundancies of workers on whose backs the miracle of tourism has been built, over-profits - which were spoken to us by the representative of AEGEAN - have been built at the hearing of operators, while exploiting all the anti-corruption measures that have been voted on in the pandemic, the 'SON-WORK' programmes, the suspensions, teleworking, the elasticity of those who remain at work. It was also revealing the statements made by its representatives that the reductions in staff are inevitable, as all the airlines that have been strongly supported in the European Union have done, and that, if you wish, they also reveal the hypocrisy of SYRIZA and other parties that are provoking the gross reinforcement of AEGEAN, but demanding that there be a clause on the maintenance of jobs, as if they had ever been able anywhere to prevent the parties from attacking their workers and their rights. After all, it was also a revelation that you received from the representatives of BSE, the tourist groups, telling you that you are implementing the standard requirements of the industrialists - in addition to others - after the arrangement that you entered to subsidise the fixed costs of businesses. They are very optimistic, since the conditions laid down by the European Union for channelling the resources from the Recovery Fund to specific groups of energy, tourism and transport - if you like - set out where the lion's share of aid will be directed. This measure is advertised by the Government as aid for small and medium-sized enterprises, hiding that, as such by the Commission - which has the first reason - the European Union, but also by the Government itself, it means those who have a hundred or fifty people, with modern technology and so on. They have nothing to do with the trader, craftsman, professional, restaurant, farmer, who is fighting all day long for a piece of money. Of course, like the measure of the refundable advance you are putting as a flag to support professionals. Apart from the fact that in the early phases of the measure the large volume of professionals was excluded, even for the longer-term phases of integration, the sums received by small businesses are not even sufficiently sufficient to cover their current obligations, let alone for their family to live. And you used this as a pretext to cut that little special purpose allowance they took April and May. How, really, do you expect the thousands of focus professionals on the edge of the cliff to survive, not only do you really support them, but you are also ironing them over the well-known cynicism of the Minister of Development? Therefore, what is more important to talk ahead of the forthcoming census is not so much the procedural issues to which no one could have a substantial counterpart, as the situation in which this census will find workers, thousands of self-employed, small professionals, farmers, the popular strata as a whole, for the majority of whom in the new and deeper economic crisis under way will dramatically change both their economic data and housing conditions, not to mention others - unfortunately, more painful - records. It is worth noting, of course, that even these researchers themselves, the employees of ELSTAT, not only in the process of inventories, but also in the course of other studies carried out on behalf of the State, even those who have employment relationships with blocs, with flexible working relationships, are in fact employed in the organization and so far not all permanent and necessary personnel are recruited with stable working relationships that they need. In the same way, the recording of the elements of the agricultural sector, which are monitored through censuses, is based on the promotion of the common agricultural policy, which essentially aims to increase the competitiveness of monopolies and the concentration of production and the concentration of land in the few hands, namely the removal of bio-pollutant farmers. This also means how the various aid programmes have been directed, because you may have referred to numbers of beneficiaries, but the share of the lion of these aids, the larger amounts, but also the greater facilities, the milk industries, the large farms, the larger farms, and of course, there are no problems in poor farms. On the contrary, there are other charges that you have made over the entire period, such as the green raisin you brought into the oil oil, which has also increased the costs of producing and transporting products, instead of duty-free oil, which is, of course, a privilege that is guaranteed only for shipowners. That is why it is a pity for farmers, who are struggling to survive in the conditions of the new economic crisis, to allegedly present them as a measure to alleviate the fact that you are exempting them from the solidarity levy on agricultural subsidies only for 2020. Of course, this is a breath and we consider it a step. However, what you should really do is definitively abolish the solidarity levy, because it is a measure that affects small incomes of workers and farmers, essentially serves to share poverty among themselves. Or if you do not want to abolish it, you should also make the voluntary payment for them, as you have done for shipowners for almost all of their taxes. We hear you repeat that you are doing what you can and that the budgetary limits are not inexhaustible. You know, the problem lies in the priorities you set in these finite, as you say, limits. Instead, "block" with support from business groups, we invite you to follow the reverse course, to adopt the JRC's proposal for a law on relief measures for the self-employed in the city and the countryside, which give substantial support to those who really need it. These are relief measures, but also a drastic reduction in debts, focusing on those who have an income of up to EUR 12 000, with an increase of EUR 3 000 for each protected member, an income that we propose to return to the tax-free limit. We suggest that for those who really need it you do need to delete all of the interest and surcharges from their debts to the banks and the public, move towards a brave 'cut' of initial debts to 30% for those who keep their business and 50% for those who have closed and remain unemployed. Also, for the months of the pandemic restrictions, we propose that their individual social security contributions be subsidized by the State and that their incremental contributions to the insurance funds be cancelled for their individual contributions. Also, for these incomes, no part of the repayable advance is reimbursed, for those who, of course, managed to get it. We propose that free professionals, crafters, traders and farmers and fishermen should be given a special-purpose compensation of EUR 1,000 for each month from October 2020 and then for as long as the restrictive measures last. At the same time, of course, their debts will be frozen for as long as the crisis lasts and enforcement measures will not be allowed. These measures are urgently necessary for the survival of self-employed, bio-processed farmers who have literally been despaired. They are measures which do not change the deadlock for a short time, but which respond to their real problems, namely those that do not respond to the government's horizontal and inadequate measures, such as what is going to happen with all these debts that are accumulated. The problem, therefore, is not the strengths of the economy, but the political choices and priorities that the government has put forward for the management of the pandemic and the crises. These priorities, moreover, define the criminal political choices you make in managing particularly the second wave of the pandemic. This is because, in the continuous forwards - back to the opening of the various activities, the immobilisation leads, if not the return to the shielding of the public health system, when instead of imposing private health structures and putting them under a uniform design and control so that the emergency needs of the entire population can really be met, you have paid for the private IF beds and you allow them to vacate by making use of the gap created by the conversion of public hospitals into hospitals of a disease. It is characteristic that, within this pandemic time, both the state health budget and the permanent staff working in all public structures were reduced by 2.5%. This is for the various fairy tales you have about supposedly serious reinforcement of the public health system. On this front - back is the unacceptable situation in the media that remains terrible, the total absence of controls in the private sector, the various structures, such as homes and others, the opening up of schools with the same conditions that led to closure in a few months' time, the fact that you give 30 million euros to recruit a university police force, instead of this money being given to securely open up schools that have been closed for a year. These are what show your different priorities for how you manage these so-called "resistances" of the economy. And while the pandemic is being revived dangerously, you choose to threaten to fade the people and the health workers who have been mobilised to claim the health protection measures of the people, instead of finally implementing these urgent measures that have been requested for you for a year. It is a challenge, in fact, when you choose to wash out these criminal omissions, to report a number of phenomena and to fly back their responsibility to the people by saying, for example, that the burden on the pandemic and the incidents in West Attica is not the responsibility of the immunity with which you cover employers and the dramatic situation in the workplace, but the mobility of workers in general, as if they were working in these disgusting conditions in these disgusting modes of transport, go through hobby in West Attica and conspired in the workplace. Resistance to the economy is therefore determined by a policy that chooses to give few people and condemns many of them to exclusion and the tragic economic consequences. For this reason, we are voting against the bill at first, because we think it is still moving into the same logic of granting backup to business groups and striving to close the bleeding of self-employed, small professionals, the populaces that are increasingly leading to a dead end. Of course, we have been placed in certain articles, for which, even if they are problematic, we will be placed in comparison with our vote then. I just wanted to ask a detailed question in relation to the amendment, so that you could put yourself in your presentation as a whole. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In relation to Article 1, where you are talking about the special winding-up procedure concerning the former ECIs, it states that all pending proceedings of any kind with the end of the special winding-up procedure are automatically abolished, whereas only pending judicial cases relating to cases of the company under special liquidation will be brought against third parties, will be assigned to the Greek State. I would therefore like to ask the following question: in the case of workers' requirements, what will happen with them? Will they be able to turn against the public? We believe that in the way it is formulated if it is not cleared, it will remain pending, it will be permanently lost. Furthermore, in relation to Article 3 on the suspension of enforcement acts for the victims of the Samos earthquake, we are concerned that you are essentially restricting the wording of those persons who are entitled to join the suspensions by demarcating, in substance, the affected area, but also by saying that they are natural persons who are resident or established. Is the wording limited only to those who have permanent residence in Samos? The previous wording was generally spoken of the earthquake affected. These are compensations which have already been delayed and, in the same period, serious damages have been caused by the floods two days ago, proving in practice, if you want, once again that all these vital projects for the people, anti-military and anti-Semitism projects, are not prejudicial to the state, because they do not actually guarantee the over-profits of the business groups you are defending. Make sure that all those affected are compensated for the damages they have suffered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. Before I give the floor to Mr. Villardos, I will give the floor to the Minister, Mr. Dollacakis, for the legislative improvements. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. After the legislative process, let me also make a very brief speech on one, two issues complementing the legislative and some other issues. Legislative measures concern exclusively the question of the pre-financing arrangement through the Public Investment Programme with resources which will then come from the Recovery Fund and are purely legal. They have two issues that we cover. We add the word "and programs" to the projects, because many of the investments in the Recovery Fund are private. They are investment programmes and not specific projects. The second concerns the possibility of making a distinct collective decision instead of many in terms of membership. It's something the Ministry of Development has asked us to do. I know it is a little tiring, but I will read it out: in the title of Article 42, the words 'works' are added after the word 'works'. In Article 42(1), the words ‘and programmes’ shall be inserted after the words ‘projects’. In Article 42(1), the word ‘funded’ is replaced by the words ‘may be financed’. In Article 42(2), the words ‘and programmes’ are added to ‘projects’. In Article 42(2), the words ‘for the projects referred to in paragraph 7’ shall be replaced by ‘for the projects and programmes referred to in paragraphs 5 and 7’. In Article 42(3), the words ‘and programmes’ are inserted after the word ‘projects’. In the first subparagraph of Article 42(4), the words ‘and programmes’ are added after the words ‘projects’. In the first subparagraph of paragraph 5 of Article 42, the words ‘and programmes’ are added after the words ‘project financing’. In the first subparagraph of paragraph 5 of Article 42, the words ‘by the Recovery Fund’ shall be replaced by ‘by the Recovery and Resilience Fund’. In the first subparagraph of paragraph 5 of Article 42, the words ‘the project’ are replaced by the words ‘the project/programme’.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u34	We can't watch you, Minister. Check them out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u35	So if you don't have a problem, I'll testify to them. They're purely legal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u36	Put them before you, Minister. They'll be shot and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u37	So I'm explaining them to you, and I'm presenting them to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u38	I would just like to say a few words. The Recovery Fund is a very important tool, a unique opportunity for the country and it is necessary after this crisis, when it is done with goodness, to have a recovery. In order to achieve this, we must achieve a unique economic and social efficiency with this fund. We should, in other words, have a great deal of effectiveness in whatever objectives we set ourselves, whether they are economic or social resilience objectives, such as the objectives achieved through the resources that are going, for example, to health. This will also be done by mobilising private resources. It must mobilise this fund to the maximum extent additional private resources so that its intervention in the economy is too great and that we give them social efficiency to catch a place. In order to have this effectiveness, it is necessary for this Fund to be prepared very carefully. The work that is being done now - I have heard the Honorary rapporteur of Officers - cannot be notified because we are still discussing the selection of projects with the committee and the investment and reform mix that the Fund will have. Do not forget that it is necessary for this Fund to have important reforms. We are assessing the costs and explaining why this Fund meets the specific projects, investments and reforms in the conditions for the green and digital transformation it sets out, the issues of state aid and the rest. The aim is, after mid-March, to be able to present the final draft to the committee, which I hope we will also be able to discuss in Parliament when the time comes. As far as the questions raised by the rapporteur are concerned, I would just like to make one comment. There is this GSE research, which I have read very carefully. I would like to point out that a large part of the households, as the GSE research tells us, has about 62% of the same - or even a little bit better - income than 2019. There is a very serious part, 37.5%, which has deteriorated. This is not the same crisis as the crisis we had in the years of the memorandum. In the years of the memorials, even until 2018, we had a very large part, the majority, to tell us that it has deteriorated. To be accurate, 62% was in 2017 and around 44% was in 2018. This difference is a difference that has to do with the way this crisis has been structured, but - well or badly - it has to do with the way the government has dealt with this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u41	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u42	It is impressive that the Deputy Minister of Finance has just confessed to the National Representation that a number of proposals, which he has already included, will be notified to the European Commission, and will then bring them to the National Representation to 'debate', since he has already agreed and pre-financed them. If you have this perception of how to conduct the dialogue on the use of EUR 32 billion, Mr Psulakakis, I would like to assure you that we have a completely different approach, a completely different approach. And since you compare to the memorial period, see how much GDP has fallen and how much the debt has increased in developed countries since World War II to this day.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u43	Now you're actually entering, Mr. Catarini. You'll tell them when you're given the floor. I thought it was a point of order or a clarification from the Minister. But that's a placement, and you'll tell it when you're given the reason for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u44	What I said, the first, is a concrete position on this strategic choice of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u45	All right, all right. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u46	By the way, I would mention the second, because you like to go back to the last decade. Look at all the evidence, to have a detailed discussion about it, Minister. We're at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u47	It is now up to the Minister to clarify the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u48	I don't have much to say beyond that to testify to a programme, it has to be ready. The debate on a programme that is not ready makes no sense. We have tabled the strategic guidelines in public and we will discuss when the thing is ready. It's a very complex program. Usually, the NSRFs to become, they want one or two years, sometimes three. You remember what the absorptions of the NSAs are. Here we are called upon to do the work that under other circumstances was done in two or three years, in five or six months. There's this job going on. It is a difficult task and the need to mature this work before it is discussed is extremely critical, because the worst thing we could do is to get out of the world and talk about projects and programmes at this stage, which will ultimately not be done, either because they are not eligible by the European Commission - hence the debate - or because it is impossible in terms of real absorption to do so. Don't forget that the program needs to be finished in five years, and then the money's gone. In the NRP, you've actually had ten years. There must therefore be enormous attention and attention to the realisation of absorption. All this is a very heavy technical work which, if it is not done, is not serious and reliable to discuss, because I too will not be able to answer your questions seriously and with credibility, nor will the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u49	You were clear, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, could I have the floor too?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u51	We will also give Mrs Papanatsiou the floor for a clarification to close this parable. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to ask a detailed question. You spoke about the Fund's eligibilitys and said that they are not ready at the moment. So, disbursement from the Public Investment Programme, what we are going to vote on today, will be after the eligibilitys of the Fund are determined, or will they become earlier, and then there will be a risk that some of them will not be in the eligibilitys that you have decided or approved by the European Commission?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u53	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u54	I won't need a minute, Mr President. It's reasonable to wonder, and it's difficult and it's a choice. That's why we bring her to the House. The committee will never tell us 'I agree' if it has not formally agreed. Apparently we're having intense consultations. We have held some fifty meetings with the committee at central political or technocratic level. We'll take the risk. That's what I'm telling you. We can't be sure. We'll have a strong possibility. We have to be honest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u55	Good. Thank you very much. Now the special speaker from the Greek Solution has the floor, Mr Vassilis Viliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. To be objective, the Minister rightly asked that the SYRIZA proposal be tabled in the Minutes, along with its costs, funding it and its implications for public debt, as well as for the deficit. However, to us, Minister, you are due to answer about the current level of the private debt. Has it reached EUR 260 billion? Ladies and gentlemen, the government has tabled today's bill, which concerns, first of all, the inventory of costs of EUR 101.5 million and, secondly, various tax provisions, in which it has somehow hidden the rescue of AEGEAN, which is the main reason why we will vote against it. As far as its first part, census, its essential purpose should not be simply to count, seeing that our population is constantly falling and replaced by foreign nations, so that our society is more easily controlled than its lenders. Its purpose should, on the one hand, be to regain its economic independence on which its national sovereignty depends and on its well-being. How will the population grow? First of all, with the return of the five hundred thousand Greeks who were forced to leave their homeland because they could not survive, so that we lose around EUR 100 billion that our education has cost us, giving them foolishness to their host countries, and also EUR 25 billion of annual GDP as each worker produces in Greece EUR 50,000 a year on average if there are of course sufficient jobs. How will they come back? Obviously if we implement a realistic development plan, by changing our failed economic model that went bankrupt and will fail us again and again. We do not need to discover the wheel here, but simply to choose the best model for our country among the four existing in Europe: firstly, the British model, which is based on consumption, which requires easy access to credit, a developed economic system, such as the City of London and monetary, of course, domination. But it produces deficits, so it only survives when the rest of the planet is willing to finance. Secondly, its very opposite, the German model geared towards exports of high-value products and services instead of domestic consumption, so to the demand of other countries. It was based on three elements: firstly, in a fairly large export sector that operates as a steam engine for the economy as a whole and, secondly, on the institutionalized retention of wages with the 2010 Agenda, launched in 2000 and thirdly, on a stable system of exchange rates that ensures the euro, and enables it to maintain its own euro on the basis of unit labour costs, due to the problems of the other euro area countries. So it produces huge deficits against us that once have to stop. Thirdly, the Italian model based on consumption and exports of low-value products, a model that is doomed within the Eurozone due to the invaluability of currency, in which case the country's continuously decreasing competitiveness. Fourth and lastly, the Swedish model which is also based on consumption and exports, such as Italian, but which has its monetary sovereignty. In addition, unlike the German economy in which the manufacturing sector dominated, Swedish exports are more differentiated, giving greater importance to information technology and high-value services because they are less sensitive to prices. In view of the above and without going into detail, a new economic model must be chosen for our country, otherwise Greece will suffer a national disaster without precedent for the benefit of the foreign forces who see the assets, the geopolitical position and the wealth of our country which, unfortunately, we underestimate. We, however, as a Greek Solution, have drawn up a detailed five hundred-page programme which guarantees the development, recovery of our economic and national sovereignty, the repatriation of our young people and the welfare of the Greeks. In the first committee now and in the census, we mentioned that, apart from the continuing downward trend of the Greek economy over the last ten years, what we have to deal with is demographics, while the government only knows what is being borrowed. In January alone, EUR 7.1 billion, increasing our debt to nearly EUR 380 billion or more than 230% of GDP, we mean the central government. We noted that the evolution of the population depends on the influx of foreigners, the repatriation of Greeks, their immigration, health and fertility, and the last four 100% depend on the economy. We stressed that GDP is a function of the population of a state, so the forecasts for its decline are negative for GDP. According to EUROSTAT, the population of Greece from 10 million seven hundred thousand in 2018 will decrease to nine million six hundred thousand in 2050 and eight million five hundred thousand in 2070, with nine hundred thousands of additional foreign population in 2070. This will have a negative impact on our GDP of about EUR 50 billion annually per million of workers, a huge amount. If we now add the nineteen thousand of legally resident foreigners, according to the 2011 census, foreigners in 2070 will be at least one million eight hundred thousand to a total population of eight million five hundred thousand, so 21%, without including illegal immigrants who are not registered. We have completed how it seems clear that if our economy is not immediately improved, the risk of disappearing as a nation is completely present, without any overreaction. Finally, we proposed in Article 2 and in the Annex on the questionnaire that there should be a question about ethnicity, religion, mother tongue, noting that in the United States census no personal information is collected, such as this Census VDM and AMKA, but simply a name, race, age, education, number of people per household and if the house is with a loan, rent or property. Continuing to the various tax provisions of the bill, we first focused on Article 30 on support for ‘AEGEAN’ with EUR 120 million and in exchange for purchase rights of 11.5% over five years. In this regard, the company did not reply to the following five basic questions: first, how much it took from last year's airline support measures of EUR 115 million for ticket subsidisation, for its staff, etc., as well as whether or not it would ask for others. Secondly, if it is true that the EUR 150 million loan received from the banks is with a public guarantee of 80% without consideration. Thirdly, how much will the debt burden of the forty-six Airbus who has ordered a value of EUR 6.5 billion, i.e. around EUR 140 million each? The company ordered forty-six expensive planes - its own issue, but we should not pay for it - when our Air Force, namely the state, bought just eighteen Rafale which each one costs cheaper. If that's possible! Fourthly, because it purchased Romanian 'ANIMAWINGS' and if it will have to support it with new funds, since it will certainly also have losses due to COVID - 19. Fifthly, why has he invested in Mr Latsis's 'LAMDA' EUR 24 million, and what will he carry from the Greek with the agreement he signed? If we heard the losses of 'AEGEAN' correctly in 2020, it was about EUR 300 million, that is, all the funds of EUR 328 million in 2019. However, in the nine months it had losses of EUR 187,1 million, as we will testify in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Its support now for 120 million is less than the Portuguese 'TAP', which the Minister said, compared to EUR 1.2 billion, but comparable to 'AUSTRIAN', which also mentioned EUR 150 million. 'TAP', however, had a negative net position of EUR 580 million and that is, Portugal re-stated it by 75%. It did so before supporting it, through a small increase in its capital, refusing to give the investor the 350 million he asked. With regard to the financial sizes of the three companies it is completely different, as we will also testify in the Minutes, since the turnover of "AEGEAN" in 2019 was EUR 1.3 billion, "TAP" 2.9 billion, or more than double, and "AUSTRIAN" 2.1 billion, so there is no comparison. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We closed the issue of 'Aegean' by saying that, with a simple estimate of 120 million, taking into account the EUR 60 million capital increase by its shareholders, the public should get warrants for at least 40% of its shares and not 11.5 million. We have also noted that it is unacceptable that the General Accounting Office of the State has not taken stock of it, as well as what happened with the Warrants to rescue the banks, which have practically all been lost. Finally, this is certainly not a systemic company. As we have never been involved in its profits, there is no reason to take part in its losses, nor, of course, in its wrong business moves, because the bankrupt Greece who lives on loan has many other needs that could be met with the 120 million, such as the payment of the hundreds of thousands of late pensions. Then, on the occasion of Article 33, we said that it is incomprehensible for a business to be taxed in our country and not its receipts, as is the case, for example, in Germany. Even more incomprehensible and unfair is that VAT should be attributed to invoices that have not been collected, which is only the case in Greece. Furthermore, we wondered how it is possible for entrepreneurs to pay income tax and VAT for invoices that they have provided by credit and may never be collected. Aren't companies selling on credit thus strangled? Is this not a tax procedure for unfair competition? Following on from Article 10, we asked how personal data would be safeguarded during the electronic census, as well as whether the leakage according to which the government gave hundreds of fifty thousand personal data to the PALANTIR without even getting a reply from the State Secretary in this regard. In Article 26, support for enterprises is positive, but it must not be done with the money of others. There is no reduction in the owners in any other country. The right thing would be the direct payment of every lost part of the rent to the leasers and not for a few months. It is clear from Article 27 that the owners are charged, since the reduction of the rent imposed on them is horizontal and is equivalent to an increase in their tax. This creates problems for those who have loans or economic closeness. Inequality between natural persons, who lose 20% of their rents and legal persons, i.e. companies who lose 40%, while they were not at all included in 2020, is unacceptable. No liberal policy is there. In Article 28 it is a good thing that the deadlines for the expiry, appearance and payment of cheques are suspended, but insufficient. Moreover, the drop in turnover of 40% leaves thousands of firms affected out of regulation, especially those with low profits and high obligations. With regard to the ban on registration in the records of economic behaviour, in TIERISIA, in some way, it should include the entire pandemic period. Our proposal - we will once again submit our calculations - was to guarantee the public guarantee of the EUR 6 billion so that there is liquidity in the economy, as well as to help both the publishers of the cheques and their recipients, or alternatively, the factoring through the banks, proposed by the institutions, as well as the deletion of part of the private debt. Otherwise, it can't be. We have noted that the government does not pay the necessary attention to the problems that will again be created in the banks by the explosive growth of red loans due to the pandemic. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Especially with regard to the repayable advance, however, we have seen from the excels that from the twenty-five thousand hundred twenty-six applications the seventeen thousand sixteen thirteen or about 70% were found to be ineligible. So a very large number of businesses have not been supported at all. Even worse, according to information from the industry, the focus, the country's second largest employer...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u57	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u58	But that's the data. There was no support for 70% of the businesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u59	Do you know why?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u60	I don't know why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u61	Because they had a raise.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u62	You just showed me some numbers, I saw some business. I can't judge them. You said the drugs and stuff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u63	Go on, Mr. Villardo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u64	Even worse, according to our industry information, the focus, the country's second largest employer with a huge contribution to GDP and the biggest problems today, was placed in the seventy-sixteenth place of money return through the repayable advance. If that's possible! The focus is literally driven to Caucasus along with many suppliers from the government's decisions. We believe it is our duty to present in the Minutes the industry's proposals for its rescue in the hope that the government will take them into account. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, the measure to grant the fixed expenditure in Article 29 is a positive one, it is our own proposal, but completely inadequate, since the average of the fixed costs of a restaurant is EUR 3 000 monthly. The main reason why we will vote against the bill, in addition to the issue of 'AEGEAN', is that the inventory, the collection of information to be provided to the European Union and the fund for auctions, etc. We were not convinced by the Director of ELSTAT that the data would not be provided and, in other words, we have no confidence in an independent authority with a dark past - ELSTAT is - as a commander and former IMF official could change the data without control by the state and thus lead us to the IMF and the Memorandums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. I shall now give the floor, because he has been asked for it, to the Minister. By the way, if you will, in view of the fact that the speaker of Mera25 will then speak, Mr Arsenis, tell us whether you will also accept the amendment that they have tabled to have an overall picture of the situation. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. No parliamentary amendment will be accepted even if it is tabled. Mr Colleague, you have said a number of things that really alienated me. I'll be placed in detail for the focus, but did you say the focus is in what location of help?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u67	Seventy-sixteenth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u68	How did that come about? I've given all your evidence. I will tell you to pre-empt you - and I will say in my speech - that only from repayable advances, the focus has taken EUR 815 million, from the suspensions of employment contracts of EUR 1,1 billion - and that is what it does about EUR 2 billion - and we have the special purpose of individual enterprises in the first phase, another 50 million, we have the reduction of rents, we have the reduction of VAT on coffee and non-alcoholics, we have the reduction of the tax advance last summer, we have the suspension of the tax suspension, we have the reductions of the insurance contributions, we have the abolition of the solidarity levy. So this is a complete answer to your question. We don't triumph. We do not claim that the focus is not pressed. I will be placed in my speech, but honestly what you have said is not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u70	No, please. When your turn comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute? He needs an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Catarini, please! Here's the Minister. Now he has taken the floor to clarify a question by Mr. Villardos, the minister closes and one minute by Mr. Villardos. Here will be the Minister and everything you have, you'll tell your speech, so the Minister will answer. Don't do this all the time. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u73	I have a brief comment, Mr President. It won't last long. I referred to the fifth advance, and I would be very happy to submit to you the figures that, for the fifth advance, the focus is classified in the seventy-sixteenth place because you have put a specific formula which unfortunately is at its expense. I have not mentioned everything that has been done in the focus. As far as the previous ones are concerned, what I said about how many companies have not been selected is the excel which you yourself gave us at the last meeting of the committee. I didn't say anything of mine. Alas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u74	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u75	Read the same excel. In a number of eligible companies, on the fifth returner, the first is the focus - twenty-four thousand thirty-four - and the third is the beverage activities, twenty-one thousand eighty-seven. What are you telling us?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u76	Following the special speaker of Mera25, Mr Arsenis, the speech was made by the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have to see how we have reached this point in these deadlocks that the government is trying to convince us that it is facing us. We were, in practice, very lucky in the first wave of the coronary. We did not have a report from countries such as China in order to have the large spread of coronary in Greece, as they had other countries. That is why, in practice and with the protection measures of the citizens, we have passed the first wave so lightly. Instead of taking our luck, however, the government tried to frustrate this situation as a steward of its own actions, acted arrogantly, did not take the lessons, was not prepared and we had the current situation. The first thing he did - and it is an important story to understand what we need to do to avoid continuing this crime - was to open the country to tourism, without any protection in practice. In fact, at first he went to take border control measures and when the multinational tourism companies started the bras de fer, the government retreated and took the protection measures back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u78	Please, Mr. Besiropoulos, do not distract the Minister's attention. He cannot monitor the rapporteur. Go on, Mr Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. The substance here is the algorithm. Since the government decides not to have protection measures at the entrance gates, the algorithm appears - how did the EVA algorithm emerge? - as Mr. Chardalias said from the Step of the House to the timely question I tabled. It emerged from an e-mail from the Greek scientist abroad. He sent an e-mail to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister found it an excellent idea. He sent it to the Epidemiologists' committee. Epidemiologists approved it without having a mathematician and a statistic in there. He approved a mathematical algorithm by a committee which did not have the corresponding scientific competence. What a description this recommends for our country and how our institutions work I leave it to you and our fellow citizens who hear us judge it. Even though, in the knowledge of the government, the country is undisturbed of its incoming coronary tourism, it does not take any measures for hospitals, for the immunisation of the public health system, a measure as regards the infrastructure, whether this is intensive treatment units or to cover the endless gaps created by the Memorandum and Memorandum governments in health. This is even more impressive if we see that the intensive treatment units that were theoretically created were created either by sponsorships such as the House and various institutions, or by taking intensive units from other emergency diseases, i.e. coronary disease, such as Kalamata. We can go from hospital to hospital. They are infinitely intensive and have been converted into CIVID clinical trials. When we see the numbers here, they're really impressive. When the House of 8 million builds about fifty ICUs, the question is how much would it really cost the public to invest in the construction of adequate intensive care units not only for the epidemic but also for the permanent needs of the public health system? Here, of course, the answer is funny. In other words, with 0.5 billion we could have more than two thousand intensive units, we could have upgraded the public health system, we could have had resistance to the krone waves. Of course, if we hadn't opened up tourism, we probably wouldn't have these waves and certainly not on this land. Same as the schools. You chose to close schools while telling us that in schools it doesn't fit, the same time that you stubbornly refused to reduce the number of students per room, even though your educational community said it's possible, your parents and guardians were asking for it and you refused. You refused, because that would mean covering the gaps in education with recruitment. You refused, because that would mean strengthening the public education system and it is a strategic objective to privatise the public, let alone when it comes to health. Let me remind you here that one of the first things you did was to start by publicising your plans to privatize the new wing of the Hospital of Ioannina, to transform it through PPP into a ward for medical tourism. At the same time you moved into hospitals to legal persons governed by public law, as you are about to do for our archaeological museums. At the same time, you allowed schools to conspire, as you allowed a pooling of public transport and so on, so you led to this deadlock in the country, with your strategic choices to privatise public infrastructures, because that was the incentive to your inertia. Now, against the desperate businessmen, what are you doing? You're giving loans. You are doing exactly what our country has asked us not to do to us. You're raising the debt. You make them even more dependent. It is precisely what led our country to this loss of independence and to the economic deadlock that we have before us, with our commitment to primary surpluses by 2060 and not forget this. Because on the next day of the coronary, this commitment is being activated, and that will actually mean the fifth memorandum. We see here in Article 28 that you are giving facilities to a number of entrepreneurs in the form of suspensions on payment of securities, as you have given them the repayable advance, which will have to be reimbursed. In fact, tell us - because the Minister quite rightly mentioned the enormous expansion of private debt, in essence, that it would be impossible to repay their obligations by the small and medium-sized enterprises and the households - this: How will they be able to return the advance on the next day? How will they be able the next day to pay the bills that you are now suspending? You'll tell us: “What can we do? This is a difficult situation." But you do. You bring laws that will guarantee they won't pay, which will guarantee they will go bankrupt. You have in the midst of the crisis brought the bankruptcy code, which is a great trap for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, for the self-employed and for the families to go bankrupt. And I'll be clear. You have brought an early warning mechanism for their bankruptcy. Who is the Finance Code? To anyone who owes more than EUR 30,000, to anyone who has guaranteed a loan of more than EUR 30,000, to anyone who inherits a borrower who has a loan of more than EUR 30,000, that is, almost all of us, and you have already advertised it! So you put the early warning mechanism on them to hit the red bell of their bankruptcy. Criticals run to state the updated data to come to a compromise with their borrowers, but they do not have the slightest obligation to respond to them at all, not to make a counter-proposal. They take their data and automatically start the bankruptcy procedure, which our fellow citizens are informed after a celebration when it has already been launched. Of course, in order to force them to enter this process, you do something incomprehensible. If their real estate is auctioned three times without result, it is publicized by the state without deceiving their personal debt and without apparently receiving a penny of sacks in their pocket. You are doing this for one reason, to panic them into the process that will lead to their poverty. This is what you do at the same time when with crocodile tears you bring us the payment suspensions when you have prepared the bankruptcy of each individual. And the reality is that it suits you to the economic desert that comes. It brings the result you have sought for so long, the concentration of the economic activities described in the report of the National Bank, in the report of other bodies that you had at times ordered, saying 'yes, our future is tourism, yes, our future is agriculture'. How? By focusing on a few of these economic activities. This is what you achieve with this coronary crisis. This crisis is an opportunity for you. Of course you also brought the HERAKLIS project and you do not withdraw it even though the guarantees that can at any moment be requested from the public are EUR 12 billion. With 12 billion we could not only fill all the gaps in hospitals, have the best health system worldwide, the best education system worldwide, and so on, but also strengthen many of the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises today. We are asking for clear things: Delete tax and insurance contributions that were created in 2020 in companies that were in difficulty. The repayable advance to become capital aid and not an additional debt. We ask for the self-evident, what our country asks our partners to give it to our citizens, to our businesses. Of course, you do not behave in the same way to all businesses, to be honest. In the case of 'AEGEAN' you suddenly behave with too much leniency, as we are about to ask you to behave with other small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed, who produce 90% of employment in that country and 90% of public revenue. So to 'Aegean', you are giving 120 million. Let us recall that 80 million sold your party to a previous government "Olympian", which finally reached the hands of AEGEAN. You give it to AEGEAN 120 million and that money may be requested in two years, maybe in five, and you may not ask it for it. You'll never ask her for them. You really have a magnificence towards this private business. We're not telling you not to strengthen the big business. We're not asking you to do that. We ask you to strengthen small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and the self-employed in a way that does not increase their debt, in a way that has been done in other countries. And delete their obligations that they will not be able to repay. Don't put them, as our country has entered, to the general debt. Now for the AIA, for its support through extracts, etc., we are not against its support, strengthen it, but you must reinstate it to the public. Your Ministry - to you, Minister - must be able to control the Independent Public Income Authority, public revenue. Obviously, we have to. It is a question of whether we have national independence or not, when we do not in fact control our public revenues and control them by the institutions. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I request very little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u80	Yes, Mr. Arseni, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u81	As far as the census is concerned, you will obviously find that too many Greek citizens have left, our young people, new families, many migrants who had settled in Greece, many hundreds of thousands of them and have now gone abroad and our population is demographically collapsed. What leads to the demographic collapse, which is obviously an existential issue for Greece as well? It leads to the dismantling of labour rights, the dismantling of collective agreements, which are carried out in almost every bill of your own, whether sectoral or in whatever form it breaks down. What creates, in other words, full-time insecurity, which leads to a fall in incomes. While we have been through four revolutions, which should lead to the reduction of working time and the saving of working time, in Greece we now have no time for new families to take care of their children, for fatherhood, for motherhood. These are collective agreements. That's what you dissolve every day. If you want our citizens to return back, we need to restore the framework for protecting labour rights. Finally, in Article 36, you are bringing the VAT rate down, but not for the islands - which we have asked so many times - to restore the reduced rate for the islands precisely because, because of islands, the financial burden is too great, because there is a cost of transporting products and so on - you are reducing VAT on zoos. You've brought mines, you've brought the hawk hunt, the bill brought by SYRIZA, but you've finally passed it. We wonder at what time do you go to the middle ages of the priesthood in 1900 of the zoos in 1950 and 1960 of the mining? What's your standard? In the rest of these countries they are outdated. If you want to bring VAT reduction, bring to the islands where our citizens live today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u82	When was it abolished?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u83	The priesthood has been abolished in the junta. You brought it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u84	Who was the Minister of Finance then?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u85	It was not abolished on Mr. Varoufakis, if that is what you imply. On Mr Varoufakis, no law has been passed, except a card law with which weak households can buy products free of charge. It's the only law he's ever had. But we're going a little to what's supposed to go through now in Article 40. You are right to bring the provision that allows workers to receive priority compensation, and in particular here it is very positive for workers who are made redundant in the 'DOL'. However, given that specialist managers have been prevented from taking advantage of many other companies - 'TLETYTO' and many other companies - the ranking table and they first place the banks - we will not compensate for any workers - we have tabled an amendment to you that also changes these ranking tables.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u86	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u87	I shall conclude, Mr President. We invite you to do it. You say that you are never accepting parliamentary amendments. It's incomprehensible, you know, as a start. In no parliament in the world depends on tabling amendments from the Minister's opinion. Anyone with the majority can reject an amendment. But not to put any amendments to the vote is incomprehensible. I wonder how the other parties accepted it. We do not accept it. We invite you to rethink this amendment. We invite you to take action to remove debts. We call on you not to put small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and self-employed in the high debt process that we are discussing today. Because that's what we're doing on the occasion of the epidemic crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u88	Thank you. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin by, Minister, especially on the census, at some point in this House to talk seriously about the problem that is coming. The problem of demographics. At some point the House should do a committee, something to do. Because you know, Mr. Ministers...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u90	He did that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u91	To finish, Mr. Loverdo. You know, a lot you did as well as PASOK, but you didn't apply them. You were good at saying, but it actually sticks up. I would therefore like to say that we must seriously see that Greece is dying. And we die demographically. The economy will one day find a government - we hope and hope it will be us - to make it right. The demographic problem, however, seeks a cornerstone. Greece exists when there are Greeks and while there are Greeks, there are Greece. If there is no Greek, there is no Greece. That's clear. So there is no need for any wisdom or for you to be an expert, Mr Ministers, to find implementing measures. It was done by a country called Hungary. Everyone can disagree with Orban about what he's doing and what he's saying. But he increased births in three years. So we could copy successful recipes. Because for me, the cry that needs to come out of here is that we need other Greeks. We need other young people, not just to exist as a nation and as a nation-state. No, no, no. That's not all. For me, that's the big one. But so that pensions can be fed that won't be paid from now on. Without working young people, there will only be old people whose pensions some have to pay. I tell the ministers, who I imagine at some point - they will understand that economic policy is not blessed through excel or soundings of themselves and their government through theoretical economic positions. Minister, the Greek people do not know that Greece in the first month, now that we are talking, has borrowed seven billion euros. Did we borrow, Minister, in the first month of the first month seven billion, a hundred and twenty million euros? She's in bonds and indicted you. It is five billion euros in bonds and even sixty billion euros in treasury bills. Yes or no? You borrowed. We have to understand, however, that when we borrow, it means that we are indebted to future generations. The difference in economic policy - as an entrepreneur, I say this, to understand it - is not an undertaking to borrow to survive, but is to produce wealth, so that it can pay its obligations. The Greek state since I know it - not to say from '74 onwards - since 1824, with the first loans from the English, which we will never get - let us not fool ourselves - is constantly borrowing. And we've reached a lot of bankruptcies. I've told you a thousand times that with loans we're generating debt. With loans we produce debt, nothing more. And if you see where the deficit has arrived, you'll understand where the country is driving. The country is led to destruction, mathematics. The pandemic will end sometime. That's for granted. It's going to be over. As many pandemics have passed, she will pass. The economy which is being shattered, however, will regain, how will it regain its difficult position in the period of crisis? Unfortunately, Minister, with loans you cannot pursue a serious policy. At some point you need to see the mistakes you've made in the economy. We came in here just to tell the truth. We're the voice of reason, you know. We are trying, by stigmatising the mistakes with seriousness and measure, to show you any options and suggestions and to make them available every time to correct your mistakes, Mr Stakoura. Mr Stavoura, the famous pillow costs us two more,27% a year of interest, yes or no? It's costing us. So again, the cushion that would help the economy, which would be the windstorm, has interest again, is. It's out again. Again, in other words, we are loading the next generation - if there is - or the mistakes of the previous governments and them. Again, in other words, we are reproducing a vicious issue which will be resolved in a way. I am not like friends here, on the left who say "delete, delete, delete". Yes, I say "delete", but what do I call it? That wealth must be produced so that the economy can be stabilised and deleted. I want proposals, specific proposals. Greece, friends and friends, has a big problem. And it is said, Minister, that will come in a few days after the focus - tourism. It doesn't seem like the pandemic is over. Four hundred and fifty thousand families are under collapse in the tourist regions. And I'm not talking about the big hotels. I refer to the small hotel, the ones made by people in the Cyclades, Dodecanese, Halkidiki, in regions in the second Thessaloniki, ladies and gentlemen, which will not open. But on the other hand, twenty - five thousand families have zero income. It's numbers that exist from these people, but it's about people. That's what we need to see. The unemployment benefit for tourism expired in December 2020, Minister. They shall not be entitled to a new extension. They've been three thousand licensed tour guides without income for months. How do these people live? Tell me. Imagine yourself, Minister! I want you to listen to me if you can, please. I understand that as the Minister of Finance you have a problem, you have communications. I understand that, but I want you to listen to me. Imagine three thousand families, a family man who has no income - is zero! - pay his PPC, pay his car traffic charges - which he mustn't pay - his car insurance premiums, pay his children's food. How? If you tell me that "I came to this man's place and I think he could do it," you're wrong. We need to find ways, serious ways. Three hundred thousand of our grandparents, Minister, pensions don't take. They're our grandparents, you guys! They're our fathers. They're waiting to retire. And Mr Hatzidakis found the magical way he said he would get a three hundred euros pension. He owes me the state a thousand euros for years, every month he will give me, and he will give me three hundred euros, and I must say, thank you. What can I say to the retired person who can't get to his grandchildren something, a gift for Easter. You abolished this last year, and you abolished it this year, in any case. Get him a present. You tell me. We're talking about our fathers! The NIKE puts a padlock. Three hundred shops in Greece. And we have arrived, Minister - I do not know how much you like Mr Veyropoulos - to listen yesterday to the Minister - your colleague, your colleague - to ask Albania to invest in Greece. There is a statement from the Minister of Government! I don't want to get into faces. I'm tired. I don't care about the face, "Velopoulos" or "the same Minister." But when a government arrives to ask Albania to invest Albanian businessmen in Greece or Skopje or Bulgarians, the ball has been lost. Greece would be the great leader of the Balkans. And now, from a leader, he's begging! Is that our big success? And I told you many times, why don't you make a tax modification for the companies in Bulgaria? It's six billion euros. I say it again. Don't you want any suggestions? I'm telling you proposals. Find a way for these companies to return to Greece with low taxation, to be valid for ten years. But six billion pounds with fifty thousand jobs is a pill. It's aspirin, you'll tell me. But it's something! To beg Albanian, Skopje, Romanian, Bulgarian to invest in Greece! In the leader country, we talked a few decades ago, not many. PASOK said so in the past. So we ask you to find a legislative framework for these companies to return, to work for the workers, the Greeks, to have a few cuts, Mr Staikora. You also imposed a taxi, Minister, because of the pandemic entering one or two people. I don't know how many people get in. That means people don't have a move. He's in despair. Give me a hand in the cabs. Is the taxi in your code? Look into it. It's not, Minister. Don't tell me it is. What you gave them matters. 200 euros? 500? How much? Tell us the number. A guy who has a taxi how much money he took? That's what I want to hear. If you say "we gave 500 euros", that is, in a year 500 euros, Minister, even the oil of the car is not, of the taxi. I'm saying that to understand the mistakes you make. And you reach the Ministry, the Ministerial Council, to fight the ministers among you for the Indian cannabis of a businessman who wants to invest. And I didn't hear anyone talking in here. And I hear that the businessman is the man, who was involved in the EUR 200 million case with a company, the 'ENERGA'. And the ministers are fighting between them on the New Democracy Ministerial Council, on the Indian cannabis, as to whether or not there should be an investment in Indian cannabis. You have reached the point even at this point fighting between two ministers because they serve interests or do not serve interests or want investment in it. Well, that's not an investment. Come on, SYRIZA has a political progressive, had Karanika there and said his own with the Indian cannabis. And you're talking about the Indian cannabis? And you're on drugs? Christ and God bless you! How far are we going to get? Are these investments? Are we serious? Minister, I need you to tell me something else about the forest maps. I have a letter in the hands that people spent 3,000 euros on topographics, etc. All three quarters throughout Greece come out of forests. And now you tell him this man: "You will object, you will pay for every objection of 100 euros and come and check you." Why? For what? Where's the other guy gonna get the money? This was in Kefalonia, Corfu. I'm being denounced by people. The forest maps were not made to fine Greeks to pay and pay again and again. They happened, and it had to be done. But if it is the mistake of the government or the state - I am not talking about the minister, in general the state - the citizen will not pay for it again the mistake of the state. What are these things? In addition, Minister, you have adopted a very good proposal for our focus: 'Supporting fixed costs of the mass focus'. Okay, I'll tell you something. I don't have a focus, I have other stores. If your Minister wants to get my keys. I'll give it to him. I'll give it to him tomorrow morning. I've booked four stores anyway. I'll give it to him. I'll give it to all of you. We are talking about four shops, thirty workers only in these shops. I'll give you my business keys. I can do it. Take care of what we're saying. Of course, the man did it, and well he did, but that's not the point. The issue is the political system that is the result of a society. You have to be mirrored in society. We need to be careful what we say. We must be careful what we are escrowing. And I will submit to the Minutes, Minister, our proposals for focusing in writing. We are tabling them for the history of the future, not because we want to buffet and say that we are right or wrong. Minister, please note very much and I ask the New Democracy Members to answer me: I have before me the law with which Mr Hatzidakis wanted to recruit. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. The law is 2643/1998: "People with disabilities, children of ethnic resistance fighters and disabled war children will be recruited to the public". Wait a minute. He says children of National Resistance fighters. I'm getting started, too. In 1945 this man, the fighter of the National Resistance, was twenty years old. After ten years, thirty years, he had a child, though at that time they had earlier children. His child today is seventy-one years old. When will you hire him to the public service? It's the law. I'm telling you the law. Look for him. I mean, children of National Resistance fighters. PASOK's done it in the past. At that time he fought people and worldly. That's why there was a solid group of people. Of course, now they all went to SYRIZA. They forgot PASOK's benefits and went to SYRIZA. But, in any case, seventy years of age, where will he be hired? You tell me. Also, Minister, I'll tell you what with the CAP. People are paying their rents even now and the CAP is closed. Why pay their rents, their expenses, their PPC? I'm telling you to understand them, to find ways to help them. And now we're going to the coroner. This is where the party starts. I will tell you one - one - of the mistakes you have made, because I sincerely want us to be consistent in the context of mistakes. We're pointing them out so you can fix them. Stop all these experts who terrorize the world. Stop all those guys coming out on the canals and they've terrified an entire society. Mr. Gogos comes out, who is liked otherwise, with a physiognomy - he is at the University of Patras, if I am not mistaken - and he says: "Our view is that the citizens should be able to circulate in one way - even depending on identity." Oh, Jesus Christ and Holy Mary! When they say these official people, your people, there's a mistake in their logic. Second mistake: "Now that Attica's red is opening high school and high school. When Attica was not red, schools were closed." I'm telling you your mistakes. Third mistake: The Prime Minister said: If there is a crowd, it sticks. But the Prime Minister told us here that he has studies - he says he's not stuck. These mistakes make the government not convincing. That's the problem. I'm not going to tell now what happened in Karditsa where two hundred people gathered there and made their parties or the Prime Minister's mistakes. I'm getting over all this. It's populism. I don't go into personal controversy or personal reproach. Fourth mistake: Ministers denounce meetings. A document from the Ministry responsible, Minister, which I will table in the Minutes. While the ministers come out on the channels and testify not to hold meetings, not to go on the left, there is a document saying: "At the right, code 6 is allowed. " While ministers denounce meetings not to take place, there is a ministry document saying that participation in meetings is permitted. You won't be persuasive like this. I'm telling you, it's not gonna happen. Fifth mistake - Listen - as far as Lockdown is concerned, how successful are they? I will tell you that it is not a success, because you really finished the economy, you killed the economy with the constant lockdowns without care, without care, so that now no one believes and the Greeks are gathered, because if you have been locked up for a year in his house, he will eventually go crazy and that man will not be able to hear you because he will no longer believe you. You have also left everything in the European Union. And the German Minister for Health, Genz Spanan, is coming out and says: Summit Council with Merkel and Pre-Secretary of State for Vaccines" Is Germany's Minister for Health special to decide which vaccine? Let me tell you: Sputnik, what Velopoulos has told you since the beginning of September here and you've been mocking him all of you. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It's the only one that doesn't have mRNA. Take the Minutes of the House. I've told you about Sputnik since then and you've been mocking the New Democracy: Long live the PFIZER. What's the difference? If I was a bad option, I'd report you for business. I'd say it's 20 Pfizer, 9.5 doing this. So some of them earn 10 euros. I'm not saying this because I don't want to be a bad option. However, your obsession with PFIZER raises particular concerns for me. You never talk about drugs. Why don't you talk about drugs? How did Trump get well? I'm asking you. Within two days he became Roboko. He's out of the hospital. Why don't you talk about drugs? Let me tell you. Because the vaccine will be mandatory in ten million Greeks, the medicine only needs who is ill. Understand? The business is big. That's the problem. And I'm not saying you guys are involved, but the Prime Minister's advisers will burn him down. That's for sure. As far as drugs are concerned - Mr. Xanthos is not today - he told us about the muffins. The teacher, Mrs. Lazaris, Diamanto Lazaris, is out, and she's talking about colchicin. I don't know if that's true. Listen, Mr. Colleague, why are you telling me about a burglar? When I fought for six years to set up a whole company around the history of pharmaceutical herbs, I knew something. I have experts. This lady, the Pharmacognition Teacher of the Pharmacy Department of Pharmacy, do you know what she said? Where's the colchicin? You know? Where's the colchicin? Does any of you know? The professor says so in a statement to the Athenian News Agency. I'll put that in the Minutes too. Let me tell you where? It's in Kozani's crocodile. The Kozani crocus, the autumn, has colchicin in it. And I'm told by the illiterates, the inconveniences, for a lot of diving. It's not a masturbation, it's the possibility that our country can make heavy industry the botanical industry with a turnover of 100 billion a year. I have the plan ready, and when the Greek Solution governs, we will implement it from the first moment. We have the possibility of making heavy botanicals. We have the possibility, and we can. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We're going to Mr. Mosalo, whom I heard a month ago. He's liked. I very much like Mr. Mosalo. I know him personally was once a Member here, Minister, who now says that Sputnik's vaccine is the best. That's why I'm telling you to listen to the Greek solution. We know what we're telling you. We've been telling you since September. Do not take mRNA. There's no need. No, the vaccine is mandatory. There are other routes and other solutions. In a statement by the German Minister for Health, Germany is now open to the vaccines of Sputnik. So why do you insist on the Pfizer? You tell me. Go on, we said that Germany and the European Union are telling us to take Pfizer. Why do you even now insist on the Pfizer? That's what bothers me as a human and I don't want to bail because we have a pandemic and I don't want to make personal targets. I'll never do it in my life. But I'm going to ask you a few questions and I want you all to answer them. Ten million Greeks are vaccinated with the X vaccine, whatever. Will he stop wearing a mask? Oh, no! Second question: will restaurants, shops and others function properly? Oh, no! That's what the scientists themselves say. Will theatres, movies and stadiums work? Oh, no! That's what your experts say. I can assure you, Mr Karaoglu, that all amateur associations in Germany, Italy and France are working. In Greece you've booked everything! Why? The amateur unions, why did you shut them down for what? Is school gonna work properly? Oh, no! That's what your experts say. I'm gonna be resistant to COVID - 19? Oh, no! That's what your experts say. Can I stop social detachment? Oh, no! That's what your experts say. Can I hug my old father? Oh, no! That's what your experts say. I'll be contagious, can you transmit it? "No one knows" says your experts. The vaccinated will be able to concentrate? Oh, no! That's what your experts say. Will I stop the decontamination of the hands? Oh, no! That's what your experts say. What's the benefit of the vaccination? "The virus will not kill you," your experts say, but we are not sure. "Are you sure he won't kill us?" I'm asking your experts. "No" say again. If the virus will not kill me, why should I be vaccinated? "For the protection of others," says your experts. If I get vaccinated, are the others 100% sure they won't get stuck? "No" is said by your experts. Once I'm vaccinated, will I not be positive again using the PCR? Oh, no! In fact you will come out positive using a PCR even faster. Once I'm vaccinated, will I be at risk of serious fatal side effects? "No one knows it," says your experts. So how are you gonna be stubborn? You tell me. That's what your experts say, I'm not saying it. How am I going to get out of public, serious political leader or not serious or anything - say what you want - and say to the Greek people 'Run the vaccine'? And they call me an anemolator? I've had vaccines in Germany. They did it to me. I'm not against the vaccines. However, for a vaccine which is not certain, 100% good, I cannot - I can't tell you otherwise - do the prisoner 'do it to call the company'. I'll never do it. And I'll never do it because you don't play with people's health. And because time is pushing, let's go to national. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sincerely ashamed to dwell in a country that reminds me of my time - I will tell you to understand it - of 1823, 1824, 1825. The ambassador of the United States, who many of you love in here, comes out - most of the parties other than the JRC, if I'm not mistaken, you love him, you all love him Mr. Piat - and he makes two three statements and no one answer, not one step from the Greek side. It orders that we do not give the port of Piraeus to the Chinese because the Americans are annoyed. There is a tweet from Mr Piatt himself, not to give airports to countries other than the Americans. Mr. Pitt himself says we should change school books so we don't bother the Skopje. Mr. Pyatt himself must say where the pipelines must pass and not pass. Mr. Pyatt himself says to cancel exercises so that we don't insult the Turks. Mr. Piatt himself! And I say, where is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs doing a homework, calling him at the office? Who is Piat telling me that the port of Thessaloniki, Mr. Comrade, can't have it - I don't care about Savvides! - or the port down in Piraeus doesn't have it, but should the Americans have it? Who's Piat? He's an ambassador to the United States. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] Is that our foreign policy? Is that the national independence, the popular sovereignty that we proclaimed and called for an independent state, not a foreign factor, whether Russian or German? I don't care who he is. And tell me, ladies and gentlemen, how proud you are - I am telling you this - that Russia should come out and say that it is impossible for Greece to be involved in American interests when America is not right. "It is necessary to exclude the involvement of the territory of a country that is friendly" - Russia refers to Greece - "the geopolitical game associated with the resurgence of Russia". That's what the Russian Foreign Minister said. And that's not all he said. You made a mistake. We're talking, in the New Democracy you're really unbelievable. You're trying to call Russia's President Putin for 25 March and you're not calling him through a diplomatic office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Prime Minister's Office, but you're putting the Minister of Defence! Where have you seen this? Where have you seen a country written without making behind-the-scenes agreements so that it doesn't get no, call him and take no? And Greece for the first time took not from a strong country, Russia, to come here its president on March 25th. This thing has never happened before! But because you control the media, the means did not come out to reveal the stupid choice of some to officially and publicly call it, when they become behind the scenes, through processes. And what were you waiting for? Tell you "yes" Putin to come here on 25 March to do your piece? You're making a mistake! Since all the measures you take are at the expense of Russia! All the measures taken so far and SYRIZA and you are against Russian interests! I'm not saying ours or theirs. How's he coming here? We are talking about diligence, amateurisms, which are inconsistent with a serious government and you are exposing the Greek Prime Minister with these mistakes! You show him all those of you who are involved in this story! Let's go to the next one, too. You think Germany is our friend. The Prime Minister has a special relationship with Germany, and so do I. Of course I was born and grew up there. You know what's going on with Germany. They just saw Salvini go up and once they saw Salvini in Italy being able to take the lead of Italy, they go and put Mario Draghi. By order of the Germans! There is no European Union. There is a German Union and this Union alone will dismantle it! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] None of you! Because first you're Europeans and then you're Greeks. We are first Greeks and then Europeans! That's our difference. No mention of the Prime Minister in Imia. I didn't hear any of you. Not even a press release! ONNED something did to unravel and some so-called patriots you have in the New Democracy that yes, they do the patriots, but they vote for what New Democracy brings here, they support them. No mention of the Imia for three dead!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, the word 'never' for the Members of the New Democracy to be removed. It's embarrassing to sound...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u93	Who are you? Mr. President, can someone interrupt me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Highlands, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u95	It's a shame to hear these things!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u96	That's golden behavior!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u97	I'm sorry, Mr. Velopoulos. Mr. Ypsilante, excuse me. You have a parliamentary representative, you have a rapporteur, you can ask for and take the floor, or you can, if you think you are affected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u98	No, I didn't mention anyone's name here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u99	To continue Mr. Velopoulos to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u100	So I say this to my good colleagues: since you are a patriot, you personally have interrupted me for breaking the Rules of Procedure of the House, I would like you to sign the examination for Macedonia! But now! Since you are a patriot, the Committee of Inquiry into Macedonia for Mr Kotzias, you and the others! Is that right? You and the rest! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] But sign it! Not in the patriot's words. We're all patriots. I didn't say any traitors in here! Nobody! Nobody! But in fact, we prove what we mean and what we say. Is that right? Let the talk be clear, and I didn't talk to anyone personally. I never do. I'm on my way to the rest, and I'm closing here. Statement by the President of Skopje. He talked about Macedonians in Greece! Macedonian president spoke of Macedonians in Greece. Not even one step has been taken! Wrong, wrong, and that's wrong! We should take our homework as a country. Wrong! Komotini Consulate takes out an official press release - official! - talking about a Turkish minority in Thrace! Not even a protest on our part. And finally, let me say it different. We are another aspect. Close the Consulate to finish the mosque of agents operating in the Consulate and affecting the Muslim brothers of Thrace. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You are also afraid of Germany and because there are indeed many patriotic colleagues in the New Democracy, I will inform them of what they have done in the European Parliament. The Greek Solution therefore collected signatures from MEPs from all countries, all states, to connect Imbros and Tenedos to Lemnos coastline. No MEP from the New Democracy and SYRIZA has signed. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Here it is, here, patriotism in the things that proves itself, not in the words. Here it is. Connect Imbros and Tenedos to Lemnos, Greece, ferry. There's no connection. This is a proposal for MEPs from many countries, from our MEP, but from New Democracy and SYRIZA no one has signed. And a lot more I can say. In conclusion, I would like to put forward a few proposals, because we have entered here to give and make proposals. We told you about the Rafale and it is to the credit of the Greek Prime Minister, who has really done this project. Bravo! Well done - because it's not only to criticize him - with the Rafale, it's right to choose the Rafale. With some improvements, with one more fate, we might be the best in the area. We say this so that some people don't think we're just criticizing. However, there is the FCAS programme, a programme of co-production of an aircraft of six generations from Europe. Since you're Europeans, get into the program with 10%! It's not much money. That is, co-production of an sixth generation fighter aircraft! We're telling you proposals. Includes the sixth generation Euro-Macedonia. The Minister of National Defence, saw the F-16 Viper in the U.S.A., but did not see "Telemaho". "Telemachi" is a Greek "anti-drone" construction - here is the President of Parliament - I will go to see it on Thursday. I'm also telling the Prime Minister - I'll call him, I'll let him know - get the Harops. What are Harops? I'll tell you what. The Harops are drones, though, aggressively. It comes out of the word 'harp'. I don't know if you know what "Arpyria" is in antiquity. The Israelis who make them give Greek names. "Arpyia", Harop is called. So that's a drone that's aggressive. And if we take twenty of these drones - twenty to forty - Greece actually has a deadly ammunition drone. He has a huge advantage. In conclusion, because my speech will provoke reactions, I will say something very simple to the good colleagues of all the parties and to my own Members, if you want: in national matters you must not sit firm, you must behave. The "science" with sons and other the "science" with wastage. Whoever understands. I will also say this for education: this phenomenon has been observed, SYRIZA and New Democracy, you agree on all major issues in national affairs. In Skopje, you agree, Greek-Turkish, you speak of exploratory. You're in agreement with the national authorities. You agree on these, in the major importance, you agree. In the lesser ones, however, you disagree, for example, with education. For them, it's a big deal. Why conflict and confrontation? That's the truth. Smalls who become big of you and bigs that become small. I will say something very simple and it is not a rhetorical question, I say it to the Left, to the good colleagues on the Left: The problem is not whether New Democracy will put police at the university. You're wrong. That's the result. The reason to heal. The cause is the problem, because the police need to enforce the class at the university, because it's necessary. It's necessary, unfortunately. Criminal acts, drugs, burning, violence, bowling. And here comes New Democracy with a law to implement the existing legislation. And because many of you have been to American colleges - Mr. Chakalotos in England, wasn't it? - I have Harvard here. Look at Harvard, ladies and gentlemen, it's police! I've been to Harvard, I've been to MIT. Police, normal police with guns, right? - pictures, regular police, police patrols inside the university. There they are, here they are, so everyone can see them! Why are we afraid of the police? I didn't understand that. What's the point? So we're going to heal the problem and we're giving you the proposal now. How is he cured and the police are not needed in the universities? How can this be done? One solution: New Democracy will begin with the abolition of the SGP, all party parties putting tables, posters will be abolished, doing what they want at university, and raping with each other! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It's a first step. That's how calm will prevail. Also, specific proposals - I shall put them in the Minutes and so that the government can have them - teachers must become teachers. Many of them have become promoters of ideas, many! I didn't all say so some people wouldn't be thrown out of here. I say that many promote and promote their ideology, talk about the Left, the Right, doing work, helping students. You don't know that. This is the carcinoma of the Greek university, the transactions between students and teachers and all of them. And do you know what it is after the orders are abolished? Special equipment at the entrances, like at the airports. No one gets in unless they have that identity, neither a client nor I don't know what a guest, no one! Because it is shameful to see in France five days ago, a month ago, my Mr. Stakoura, walking towards students against Lockdown because schools are closed! They wanted students to open the schools, marched to France and Greece, and some so-called students go out to close the schools! See the qualitative difference and this difference is essential! Party youths, party orders, the election of prefectures by students, all these are pathogens of the 1970s and 1960s. Let's cut them off! Let's finally cut the abscess! Political colleagues - and I am closing here, Mr President - it is a provision. The Prime Minister is bringing in a law on education. It's good! I must say, however, which I consider to be very important: in September 2013 the New Democracy, with Minister Mitsotakis, fired a thousand three hundred forty-nine workers, guardians of the universities. In 2013 they were fired by the Prime Minister - then Minister - the university guards! And today he comes to correct the mistake he made with new recruits. To say, "I'm sorry, I was wrong, I didn't have a political instinct to predict evolution", because you know the political difference from a simple politician is that the politician can predict, but the simple politician constantly corrects the mistakes he makes if he corrects them. Education is a very big chapter. You must understand that education creates new citizens. He needs education, he needs education, he needs knowledge, but most importantly he needs our parties to cut him off from our sterile party confrontation! So get the plaques down, drop the office, tables, beatings, bats, helmets, which exist between the folds, abolish the orders, to eliminate the lawlessness in universities! All the thousand and five thousand policemen and ten won't make it to the job. Listen to the Greek Solution to triumph, because we are the only solution, the serious solution and the voice of reason. We're nothing less and nothing more! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And to correct it, Mr Colleague, no one is more patriot than me! Nobody! I never wrote that down personally. I want to say, however - I believe - something serious: I told you something, that we are all being judged. I know that all the New Democracy MPs are tightening their teeth because of the scop, especially the Macedonians, because I'm talking to them. I know that teeth are tightening, just like you, and so do many others. At some point, however, the tightness will break your teeth and you will lose them and - frankly I say it - protect them, as you must protect Macedonia and Greece from any enemy, especially the bad ministers who sign them and pay it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u103	Wait a minute now. Minister Stakoras has asked for the floor. Mr. Bukkaro, would you like to precede the Minister? I understand that you want... Mr. Staruras has the floor. Is it a matter of Mr. Velopoulos' speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u104	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u105	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u106	So both for two minutes and it'll be clear that you'll take away the time to speak from Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u107	Sure. Mr President, we as a New Democracy have no doubt that all of Parliament's parties love homeland. Of course, patriotism from each side is expressed in a different way. And I asked for the floor due to the legitimate discomfort of several colleagues. For us, Mr President, the most intangible form of patriotism is the practice. It is neither the verbal nor emotional nor the online nor the television form of patriotism. It's the deed! And this government in the nineteen months that ruled has completely faced the challenge of Evros, faced tensions in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Greek Navy actually showed that it is a power factor. This government is implementing the largest Armed Forces Modernisation Programme in the last few decades, of many billion euros and increasing the country's power and deterrent and defensive. It manages with results the other challenge of our time, migration. And I hear some of them saying to review conditions, because we might not agree and may not even agree, when the revision of treaties is the vehicle of our neighbours to change the geopolitical status of the region! We should review the conditions under which we have disagreements and have expressed them, stressed and pointed out in time and open the ferry for other revisions! Has anyone considered the results? That is why I am closing down, Mr President, by saying that it is the most intact form of patriotism for us in the New Democracy that is expressed in practice, that is the country and the Armed Forces and not any other emotional or verbal approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u109	Wait, Mr. Heta, wait. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group has once again tabled a full-fledged thoughts on every scientist, and he obviously did not talk about the bill again. Therefore, you will allow me to share with you two thoughts on all of what has been said. First of all, as far as universities are concerned, universities are areas of education, research and democracy. The government boldly looks into the future, so as to deal with chronic illnesses that exist in the space. It will proceed to a brave reform of the HEIs, with the aim of upgrading the level of study, the security of the university community and the overall resolution of the universities. We want the forces of freedom, democracy, work and production to gain through this brave reform. Secondly, the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group referred to national issues. The government didn't drag. The choice of the government was and is, as the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative said, to strengthen the country's national defence and deterrent force. This government seriously, with its responsibilities, responsiblely and with insight, ensured the resources and the financial space to do what we are discussing today, that is to say to strengthen the country's defence. And we do this without competitions and struggles of patriotism. Finally, with regard to two small references he made to aspects of the bill, I would like to say that for the focus I have placed and I will speak much more thoroughly in my speech. But he also mentioned another social group in taxis and said that we did not give anything. In the fifth advance sixteen thousand sixty-four taxis were divided on average EUR 1,191 each. I say this because he spoke of 100 and 200 euros. The five returnees - from now on we will sum up what you say about what goes on to each social group - were given EUR 55.4 million to eighteen thousand eight hundred taxis out of the twenty-seven thousand operating in the country. In other words, every taxi in the country has taken an average of 2,947 euros, about 3,000 euros to date, covering 70% of the taxi they operate. At the same time, we have established for many months as taxi, lower VAT on travel, which you know and the industry know. I shall therefore repeat what I said here in the concern raised by the focus. We are not celebrating, triumphing, covering all the losses of the sectors that are actually suffering enormous damage, but we are proving that we are doing our best to limit these adverse economic consequences. And that should be recognised at some point by the Opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u111	Mr Hetas and Mr Katrinis have been asked for the floor for two minutes. Be sure that this time will be removed from the total time. And to be clear, unless another parliamentary representative, Mr Bukkoro, asks for the floor, you can also ask for the floor, because you have opened this circle. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin by answering the Minister, Mr Stavoura. Minister, you said about the universities. We've had words, Mr. Stakoura. What you said a moment ago was again words. You want to ‘make’. You've done nothing. The issue in Greece is the application of the laws, which applies both to asylum and to the police. Whenever he needs police, he can get inside the universities. The point is that you do not want to "clean" the universities. Let's go down now as far as national defense is concerned. Obviously, we are in favour and welcome the national defence armaments, after you have dismantled it. You're the ones who broke it! You ruled this country! So since you have dismantled our national defence, you are now coming to support it with EUR 500 million per year armaments for nine, ten years. Obviously, we applaud. And our proposal, our President, was Rafale and not just. But we should be careful what we say. You're not from virginity. You didn't come here today! You have ruled this country for many years and you have a great responsibility. As far as taxis are concerned, Mr Stakoura, what did they take from the first, second, third, fourth, returnee? You live with 1,191 euros! Can you live for five months with 1,191 euros? If you can live with 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 2, 1, 1, 2, 2, 1, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 3, 3, 3, 3, 5, 5, 5, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6 of 3 of for you, 6, 6 of for you, 6, 5 of for you, 6, 6 of for you, 6, 6, 6, 6, 6 of for you, 5, 5 of for you, 5, 5, 6 of for. for., 5.,.,.,.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u113	Listen to what we're talking about! We said the fifth returner...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u114	The fifth returnee is only 1000 euros. The sum is 3,000 euros!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u115	We won't have a dialogue now. Let's hear after the Minister. You should take the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, there is plenty of time for the parliamentary representatives and the ministers. Unfortunately, however, there is not enough time for Mr Vlavo who is the first speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u117	I shall reply a little to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative. I don't understand why you're upset. We said we were all judged in practice. That's exactly what we said. The act is important. Leave the theories! We said we were sure that all three hundred people here love their homeland. They must show it, however, in practice, Mr Bukkoro. We didn't say anything else. That's what we're talking about! The act is the matter. Do you know what action it means? The act means the New Democracy that hurts the scop and was contrary to the agreement and characterised it as a suppressing and not beneficial to the country, to sign the examination it has submitted and ask for the Greek Solution. Why don't you sign her?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u118	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u119	Wait a minute, Mr President, I'll be done. Is your party and the costing around party orders above your patriotism? So look at us in practice that you are with us. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u120	No, don't go down there, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u121	Wait a minute, Mr. President. It's loan!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u122	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u123	It's borrowing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u124	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u125	How is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u126	The President spoke to you twice a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u127	I'd be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u128	Leave it 'I'd be done'. You just repeat your president. We can't, we heard you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u129	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u130	You've already spoken for three minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u131	I'll be done in a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u132	One word and let's get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u133	I'd be done, Mr. President. We are not the ones, Mr Buquoir, who let 'Oruts Rach' walk around. We are not the ones, Mr Bukkoro, the ones who signed agreements with a reduced effect on our islands. You did it! And we are not the ones who go to The Hague and we are in dialogue with the Turks. You're doing it! Act you want? Sign the Greek Solution for Examination for Skopje. Now, do it now, today!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u134	Mr Katrinis now has the floor on behalf of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. I retain as worryingly interesting the revulsion of the President of Greek Solution that education issues are of minor importance. This is the first in its thirty-five minutes of position on a number of unrelated issues, as well as the criminalisation of student orders. Of course, many of us in this Chamber have had our first political experiences in a healthy manner in student groups. I would therefore like to say to him that the only way to enter politics cannot be through the media, but also through student participation and through clubs. He may not accept it himself, but that is the reality. Now, with regard to the issues of patriotism which have been raised, I see that in the last three, four days there is a very wide resonance on the 'right building'. In fact, the Imian theme seems to be too sensitive to be able to recall it on social media, showing their patriotic reflexes, allegedly affecting PASOK’s non-patriotic attitude in 1996. I would therefore like to remind you, Mr President, in this brief position, that in a number of unfortunate incidents we have led to the Immigration crisis in 1996. However, I would also like to remind you that in the Immigration crisis in 1996, precisely because its national sovereignty was called into question, the country responded. And he answered the way he should, of course, mourning three heroes, Lieutenant Carathanase, Lieutenant Vlahako and Chief Chief Gialoschos, but the country responded in the way that he dared to approve our national sovereignty. Therefore, the security crises without the governors today to see what they are saying high government officials about the'red' lines or the way others have responded, let them periphery remember this, that the PASOK Government, with Prime Minister Costas Simitis, gave - and I am finishing - the answer that he dared to think he could violate our territorial integrity, our territorial sovereignty and our national sovereignty. It's over and over!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u136	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u138	I too, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u139	I'm sorry, Mr. Heta and Mr. Bukkoro, just a minute and a few things to be clear. I'm not talking about any speeches. The patriotism of anyone here cannot be called into question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u140	No one did that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u141	If you question it, you have to prove it in practice. So we should close this debate right now and move on to the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u142	But that's not what we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u143	I don't know what you said or answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u144	Why would you say that then?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u145	So I say to you that you have Members and your ability, Mr Heta, as well as Mr Bukokouros and others, on the part of all the parties, to devote a minute of seven or one minute to the twelve parliamentary representatives and on this issue. So I really urge you, and in a sense I advise you not to question the patriotism of the other and whoever disputes him to prove it not from his political choices, but in practice, because the political choice is a political choice. This place has suffered a lot from the logic of "You made a political choice, you are not a patriot". He has suffered for too many years and from too many aspects! And I don’t know if there’s anyone here today in this Chamber who was found on no dried-up exactly with that logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u146	I, Mr President, shall speak in that sense and conclude in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u147	That is why I would ask you, Mr Bukkoro, in particular, to move on, to close this issue and not to have a procedure for questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, for a moment, I would like to say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u149	What do you mean, Mr. Heta? You want to say something about what I said? Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, I also have an excellent relationship with my colleagues, Mr President. The Greek Solution has never called into question anyone's patriotism in here! What else can we say to understand it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u151	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u152	We say, however, that we must also prove in practice what we say in the theory. We have not questioned the patriotism of anyone, Mr President. Please don't get any misunderstandings. I'll say it again, so it can be understood. We don't question the patriotism of anyone in here. But we are saying this: follow the logic and let us defend the ideals and the fairs of our country! We don't say anything else! In practice! Nothing else!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u153	Good, good. Here, Mr Bukkoro, you have the floor for a minute. Please be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, I would not ask again for the floor, but here we are questioning the statement that we are not questioning and it is a theater of irrationality. It is therefore quite clear to us that the expression 'like patriots of all kinds.' I think you understand that. You remember how I started my previous location. I said we don't question patriotism on any side. This patriotism is expressed differently and I think that this is understood by everyone. We say that the most integer form of patriotism is the practice and I listed what the government has done over the nineteen months, without any peak. Saying "We do not question the patriotism of anyone" and talking about "anywhere patriots" or trying to blackmail political initiatives "Or sign the proposal of an Inquiry Committee"...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u155	Is that a political initiative or a national issue?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u156	It's just a political initiative! That's right! The 'differently you are not patriots' is a second major peak, because we said that there are always political choices on the table. What I am saying and clarifying once and for all is this: it is very easy from the chairs of the counterpopulation to suggest, if you even want to put on pillowish targets. But when you are a government, and you have the responsibility of the government of the country, you have the responsibility of the state to continue and, above all, you have the responsibility to face up to the weapons that are threatening the country. And the reform in our wider region we know it's a great threat. That is what we are saying, and those who want to understand it, and those who really want to understand it, as they say - and we do not question it - from patriotic feelings, must finally understand it. We will never agree, but seriously and seriously we must find solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u157	All right, all right. So we have had a certain debate between us on patriotism in practice - not necessary, in my opinion - which, of course, has been provoked. I'm telling you, let's get this straight. Here, Mr Vlavo, you have the floor for seven minutes. But, you know, because we get away from time with responsibilities, etc., then it's Mr. Alexiadis from SYRIZA. Seven minutes will be seven minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. We'll try to be in time. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has shown that it acts directly and effectively to limit the effects of this unprecedented health crisis by strengthening businesses and natural persons affected by the pandemic. At the same time, in order to alleviate the effects on the economy, the government is facing years of problems, as is the case with this draft law regulating general census issues. The purpose, object, scope, time and procedure for carrying out censuses of buildings, populations, dwellings, agriculture, livestock farming for 2021 shall be laid down and shall include provisions for an effective and accurate inventory, which will guide the effective conduct of economic, social and environmental policies. The bill of the Ministry of Finance which we are discussing also introduces financial and tax arrangements and - most importantly - it includes another package of measures to assist businesses and the business world. We know that many sectors of the economy, businesses and professionals are in crisis. That is why, where necessary, we are taking additional measures, such as the draft law which includes, as I said earlier, beneficial provisions for the whole business world. Amongst other things, there is the discharge for the payment of a rent, the time for obtaining income from agricultural aid and much more, which our rapporteur has developed very well, but which will also be developed by the ministers in plenary. With this bill, therefore, the government proves that it is always vigilant, making the best possible to address the challenges of the coronary pandemic, taking a step forward - a coherent plan for the recovery and sustainable development of Greek society. I continue, ladies and gentlemen, and there I would like to emphasise - Article 39, which, of course, relates to the region of Eastern Attica. Minister, I have to say that the arrangement you brought was not the expected one. I was left with the impression three months ago when I tabled an amendment and you said that it would not be discussed in order to bring about a ministerial solution to problems throughout Greece, that my proposal - at least mine, but also other colleagues - was then understood. So why is this regulation not complete today? It is not complete because it only gives a solution to a part of the area where the decision under number 1151, which is within a project, and what was formerly forested. What, in other words, does it even involve within a plan? The ones that weren't woody. We're not touching it with Article 39 that you brought. Second and most importantly, even for what you are answering, you are laying down conditions which do not apply anywhere in Greece! Why, in all of Greece, with Law 3127/2003, is usage twenty years and you bring for Saronida to be forty years? Why do you have Saronida no administrative expulsion protocol? And if there was an expulsion protocol fifty years ago, and today that part that is inside the plan has been built, what are you going to tell people? Are you going to tell them to tear down the building? I'm asking, so we can get in touch with each other at last. That is why I told you that I find it difficult to vote for this article, I refuse to vote for it, and I said that it must be completed. Then the Undersecretary, Mr. Vessiropoulos, told us that because we have not had time to complete it now, we should withdraw it and reintroduce it. I and Mr Vorides, who participated in a teleconferencing conference with the State Secretary, agreed that this would be the case. I never said she'd retire. I said to fill in. I thought it'd be over. But what is this famous problem, why is it the fourth, fifth time that an extension of revenge is granted? What's the problem? The problem is that there is a decision of feasibility of 1872, the famous Decision 1151, so that all the mines in the wider region are not private, it comes and avenges by concise procedures and it says 'they belong to the public'. And it is the whole area of Lavrio and today the Municipality of Saronicos, a huge area that belongs to the public. In fact the receipt is said to have been made by the Greek State how? When public clerks went to the top of the mountain and showed them which area takes the public. It wasn't mitigating. We took her from the top of the mountain. With this area for too many years no one has dealt with it. And it comes upon a dictatorship to open the street of Athens - Lavrio and the owners of land find that they do not receive compensation. For the first time people have heard - you understand what societies were like at the time - 'you are not compensated for because there is decision 1151, which forbids it, because it is public.' So then the citizens of Keratea took action on this occasion and came to the late Miltiadis Everett in 1977 with Law 719 and regulates the Keratea alone. What do we say? What applies to Keratea, which is three times a constitutional one, is valid for the entire area of 1151, in and out of design. Nothing more. Constitutional arrangement to apply throughout the region. And I cannot understand where the difficulty is, what the problem is, who makes us the opposite, who is questioning property of people who have papers and have contracts. No one spoke of forests, no one spoke of anything else. Don't misinterpret them. We're talking about property that is legally owned by our fellow citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So today you have brought an initiative, Minister, and in the right direction, and I have to say it. You are resuspending until the end of May, you are committed to forming a committee with officials from the agencies and also the self-government, in order to draw up a final regulation that will satisfy everyone, that is to say, everyone. I have nothing to claim. So this spirit really changes the scenery. Apparently, let's stay 39 to give solutions where it's given. There is no doubt about that. It didn't exist all along. But the scene changes your commitment that by the end of May a comprehensive arrangement will come that will actually give a definitive, radical and integrated solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Vlao, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u160	I shall conclude, Mr President. I am pleased that, in fact, after so many words today, the problem has been understood. I would like to apologise to the Minister and the State Secretary for having to eat time by saying the same thing, but when a problem that we all agree is right, it is right that he does not find his solution, next is to go around and often spoil our hearts a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u161	Mr Alexiadis has the floor from SYRIZA, followed by Mr Kavadas from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with a reference to the speech by the rapporteur of the New Democracy at the first meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. As it sounded a little scared of me, but I've known him from the past Theodoros Karaoglu, so understanding his sense of humor, I'm really going to agree with him when he said 2021 is the year to be measured. And I'm going to politically agree with him. It is very right to formulate politically. But who will count with what? In 2021, due to the government's measures, the Government of New Democracy and the New Democracy will be measured with the problems of society and measured by whether it can solve the problems of society. And by closing the two years, unfortunately, the government in July, it will have to make an account of what it has done all this time. And it will really be measured by the problems, in the sense that people remember, they remember businessmen, we remember each other and we will remind you all the time. I will not tell you today about the twenty-nine unjust taxes because they have become a joke, you have forgotten that too. You want them to write off what you both took off as the competent Heads of the New Democracy as announcements. I don't want to tell you again to be sad. But you'll be counted with what you were saying in the election, those huge fireworks. I remember that Kyriakos Mitsotakis has been electorally saying 'A stable tax system for at least five years'. Have you counted since you took responsibility for the Ministry of Finance how many bills have you brought by tax provisions? It's the 30th one. By the time you close two years, how much will you bring? Because we keep hearing that you will bring more and more. You have the experience that we cannot have a tax system that is not stable and ask for investment and development. It is an elementary condition, and everyone says so. You will also be measured by what you were saying in the election, but some are still saying, because they have kept the same "snake" for the alleged destruction that SYRIZA brought to the small and medium-sized ones and how much you would save them and how much you have saved them. So you will be measured on the basis of what the producers and social operators themselves say, with what the Greek Federation of Entrepreneurship Trades itself says in the memorandum that you have submitted since 1 February, which you yourself have not answered in elementary terms. I will say below about this parliamentary practice. You haven't even answered their issues. And the request - when you finish the dialogue with my fellow Members - that you respond to what they themselves put forward and are of a procedural nature. Give me an answer. They shall request the establishment and application of a specific inconsistent business account. Yes or no, and why not? They also call for a reduced payment of next year's income tax and also for a change in the definition of enterprises affected by the pandemic. Answer, therefore, because you will be measured if you solve these problems, as will be measured with the focus area, not an area that is friendly to SYRIZA, but an area that is politically hostile to the New Democracy, because it understands what you have done in this area and an area that has come to resist what your Minister is saying that wants to get the keys from the restaurants and do it governmentally - rather that is the philosophy he has, because he wants to collect the keys - a place that is now turning against Ministers and asking for specific compensation. You will also be measured with what you have said about correct legislation. I will remind you of this in every bill, because last time I told you, Minister, I would like to say 'Don't count on all the pages of the bill and tell us about so many pages'. But all the pages of the bill must be studied by us to come to the House. So, in the draft legislation under discussion, you brought into consultation twenty-one articles, forty-three articles eventually come to Parliament plus five articles, the amendment, a total of forty-eight articles. And you gave us forty-six hours to read two hundred seventeen pages and get ready. A good piece of legislation is said in your opinion. It does not apply in this case under any circumstances. I could say too much about the bill, but our Parliamentary representative Katerina Papanatsiou has been placed with full political adequacy on these issues. So I won't say too much of that. I will only speak about Article 27, first of all, which has been asked to you by accountants, tax operators, economists and citizens. Many of them did not vote SYRIZA because they believed "the false words, the great words" that you said about ownership. I'm opening a parentheses. At the POMIDA conference on Saturday, I reminded friends owners that the greatest tax burden on the property was not introduced by SYRIZA. Other parties have introduced it and raised HIS every year and reached the property taxes from 650 million in real estate to 3.4 billion. We were the first party that we did not raise him one euro per year and the first party that we managed in 2019 and made the biggest reduction of HISFIDA since his establishment. But I come to Article 27. Question: Are the owners of rents not collected by COVID? Yes or no? And if not, will you solve this legislatively because it has not yet been solved? This article rightly strengthens the owners. That's right. We, too, have been asking for a very large number of interventions to resolve this issue. But what owners? I imagine we are all interested in strengthening natural persons, small and medium-sized owners, not those who own a large number of property, not those who have huge incomes. In a table of SYRIZA's economic policy section on Article 27, which I will table in the Minutes, we have done a process. We may have made a mistake. So explain to me, because of the duty-free process... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I will not need as much time as Mr Vlacho has taken, despite the fact that I share his indignation. As far as Article 27 is concerned, then, it is true or not that a natural person with EUR 1,400 monthly income from rents with the provisions you have brought will have a benefit of EUR 18,8 per month, while one with EUR 12,000 will have EUR 3,367, one with EUR 20,000 will have 6,104 from the overall impact of income tax, a contribution of solidarity, etc. The question is whether or not these are true and whether this very good intervention you have made will strengthen small and medium-sized or large. We are very much in favour of aid for small and medium-sized enterprises and not the large ones. I should like to close with one comment concerning the Bureau of Parliament, although I am embarrassed to make it clear from this step because I do not know where to say it, the Bureau of Parliament or the Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u163	You tell her now and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u164	I respect, Mr Vice-President, respect the people who have principles and respect this principle that 'I do not accept any parliamentary amendment'. However, this should also enter into the Rules of Procedure, so that we do not get wrong, that we do not bring any amendments, that we do not have to table them. To put in place a provision that no parliamentary amendments are accepted and that we do not need this and wait for a change of government and see what those in opposition will do then. But it is not possible for these issues to go through with a horizontal provision. Apart from that, we also have another unprecedented parliamentary procedure. The House's Scientific Service is coming with its report and it brings a number of comments. It goes beyond correcting you on the basis of the Babiniotis dictionary, even in spelling. I guess...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u165	Mr Alexiadis, you have spent a lot of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u166	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm out of spelling. I'm actually going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Alexiadis, you've been talking nine minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u168	I am closing my sentence, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u169	Yeah, shut it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u170	On page 13 on Article 30, it states that these interventions must be subject to clear conditions and to formulate. Question: Does your legislation ensure what Parliament's Scientific Service says? Yes or no? Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u171	In response to your reasonable question - of course you also understand it, and I think you know it - to say that it will never enter the Rules of Procedure of this House, that the parliamentary amendments are forbidden, because the debate is actually being abolished. It is a matter of governmental practice and not of the Bureau of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u173	Here you go, Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u174	As far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, it must be clear that when parliamentary amendments come, they must be studied, evaluated and quantified. Alas, if a Minister for Finance was to be responsible here and accepted an amendment if he hadn't measured it first. So the financial footprint is too important for you to accept something. Therefore, we cannot accept unquantitative amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u175	Mr Kavadas has the floor from New Democracy. After Mr. Kavvada, Mr. Grigoriadis will speak, and then the series will be: Mr. Loverdos from the Change Movement, Mr. Ypsilantis from New Democracy and Mrs. Ahtsoglou from SYRIZA. That's why I'm telling her why it doesn't change. Immediately afterwards is Mr. Melass, but I don't know if a political leader will come, etc. Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time we will be completing a year from the day our country and all mankind entered the vortex of the greatest test after World War II. The range and high risk ratio of the pandemic have created new data that have inevitably affected economic and social life. The effects on the global economy are given as in the Greek. Criticism against the successive legislative initiatives of the Government, including support measures for enterprises, workers and the wider social system, is below the circumstances. Seven and ten years ago, populism had passed. Population ruled the country, citizens suffered the consequences, paid an expensive price. That is why they have definitively rejected populism. In the dense of the greatest crisis Greece still has a better picture in terms of the number of cases, but also in the health field than in other European countries. In the vortex of the greatest economic crisis Greece is borrowed from the markets and raises money on extremely favourable terms. Recently the Greek State, through the issue of the ten-year bond, raised 3.5 billion euros at the rate of interest to move to the historical low of 0.8%. Evidently, markets and the vast majority of Greek citizens see what Civic Opposition pretends they do not see, that there is a serious and structured government and a confidence-inspired Prime Minister. The measures being implemented by the government have been lasting for about a year. They shall be renewed, updated and improved, as well as adaptations to the new data. This is the scope of the draft legislation we are debating today, in which there are substantial support measures for those affected by the consequences of pandemic. I am referring to the main of this. First of all, the exemption from the entire rent for the months of January and February for the companies that were closed with a government order until 15 January. It is a measure that includes thousands of businesses, from retailing and catering to tourist accommodation, tourist offices, hairdressing, aesthetic centers and gyms. Secondly, for the owners of these real estates, where the lease is exempted from the rent, a one-off payment from the State of 80% of the rent is envisaged - in the case of natural persons - and 60% of the rent for legal persons. Thirdly, the exceptional solidarity levy exempts the agricultural aid and subsidies collected in the tax year 2021, but are raised in the 2020 tax year. Fourthly, there is provision not to be entered into the TECHNICAL TECHNOLOGY checks which expire between 2 and 25 January, provided they are paid within seventy-five days for those affected by the pandemic. Also, for cheques having a date of occurrence, expiry or payment from 25 January to 28 February, an extension of seventy-five days shall be granted. Appropriate support measures are also provided for the bearers of the cheques linked to the extension of the deadline for payment of certified VAT debts. All people in the market know that the biggest problem is liquidity. The Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. Another very important financial instrument that strengthens the liquidity of enterprises is institutionalised through the draft law we are debating today. I am referring to the subsidy of fixed costs for businesses, which may include payroll costs, rents, TECs accounts, but also operating expenses. The direct benefits of this arrangement are the companies affected by the pandemic and the costs that can be subsidised are those that have been or are to be made from March 2020 to June 2021. Undertakings affected, on the basis of what is provided for in the Community scheme, are enterprises which have been subject to a reduction in their turnover by at least 30% compared to 2019. It is a very important liquidity tool particularly for small and micro-enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, some, almost delightful, believe that the 7.5 billion that the government had budgetd to support businesses and workers in 2021 will not be enough. The answer was received by the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura, who clearly stressed that the government will continue to take other support measures for as long as necessary, as is done from the first moment. Let me remind you that so far we have proceeded to tax and insurance payments suspensions, we have reduced the rents for businesses, workers and students, and we have made a special payment to employees, professionals and businesses and to the extension of unemployment benefits and a number of other support measures that will continue to be taken in the future. We know that there are problems, that there are branches, such as the focus that must be based not only on now, but also on later, when these operations are being relaunched. We will be the first of the New Democracy Members to put forward proposals, but we will also ask the government to support these people. The majority of Greek citizens judge with maturity and full awareness of the difficulties and all the measurements of public opinion, however unlike some, confirm that this majority supports the government and reliably surrounds Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr. Kavada. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis, gives Mr Loverdos his position. Mr Loverdos, after all, you were the next speaker, so - since you have been consulted - you have the floor. I said that until Mrs Ahtsoglou she will not change, but internal changes can be made after consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u178	I am very grateful to Mr Gregoriadis for his politeness. My turn was this, and I'm talking in my turn with his understanding. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, on the draft law and especially on the inventory issue, we understand it as PASOK, as a Change Movement, as a great opportunity not just to record numbers, but also to draw very important conclusions and not only in relation to the population, which you know very well, because the National Statistical Authority has informed us what the deterioration of the situation is in the Greek population since 2011 until today. It's less than two hundred thousand the difference between births and deaths. We've made labels. I would stress in my speech and in the few minutes that I have, as a Member of Parliament, the need for ESDC to participate, namely the disabled, with the knowledge they have, the relevant National Statistical Office and our system. I would like to say here, because Mr Velopoulos exaggerated that in the House - in her previous period, however, which was not his party here and himself - the initiative of our party, PASOK, led to a Intergroup Committee, which tabled its conclusion from which you chose only the birth allowance and nothing else. Therefore, the census figures must give rise to concerns and policies. For there is nothing to be said about, without policies, there is absolutely nothing to be said. I repeat: the Institute of ESEMEA participates in the Advisory Committee of the Greek Statistical System. As far as entrepreneurship measures are concerned, no one can say 'no'. However, it can be pointed out how slowly you will be joining our proposals in terms of entrepreneurship and strengthening the constant needs of businesses. Slowly accelerating, wasting valuable time. Because many times parliamentary dialogue does not give the government any reason to put a finger on the type of suns, when the press does, then you think about it a little differently. I tabled a question to you, Mr Stavoura, not on the occasion of what I have told you on several occasions in the House and myself and my other colleagues from PASOK, from the Change Movement, but from what the paper "First Theme" put to you on Sunday and Mr Karamitsos. I am specifically addressing my question, which I have asked many times to you and to Mr Georgiadis: From the EUR 24 billion, which are your policies to strengthen workers, entrepreneurship, the economy - but - firstly, how much these are and, secondly, how much are the amounts withheld by the banks and have not been channelled to the market? I think the issue here is of paramount importance, to see whether the government is saying it all right, if it does not say it all right, and whether the opposition that highlights the problems also has its own on the most specific issue for Greece at the moment, after the pandemic, which is the economy and as will appear with the end, as we all hope, of pandemic, as a problem of poverty. Minister, it will not be a problem of economy and recession. It's gonna be a problem of poverty. I agree with the issue of the economy, the fight against pandemic, the poverty problems that are already growing sharply and which will appear more strongly on an issue that is currently on the agenda and I would ask you to pass on to the relevant Minister what I will say and are related to statistics which, as a Member, firstly I have noted three weeks ago in a television show, that from the statistics available to me, as a Member, but also as a former Minister of Health, it appears to me that in addition to those which cannot be vaccinated and working in the public health system, many are those who refuse vaccination because they have their views. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I have said and said again today that for those who work in public hospitals or private hospitals, which have better statistics and are leading to the conflict with the virus, with COVID - 19, vaccination must be mandatory. I repeat that the Disciplinary Law also gives many solutions for him who refuses, even though he goes through the information stage, which can be very detailed and lasting not one day, but once and for all two weeks. While I am thinking about this and I have said it today in the newspaper "THA" - and I am really impressed, I support it and mention it in the Greek Parliament - the article by the doctor, director of Evangelism, by Giannis Datseris, who titles his text as "Doctor not inoculated hurts" and connects it to the oath of Hippocrates. I'm the general doctor and nurse, whoever's in the fight against COVID - 19. And it concludes: 'I agree with and commend the mandatory vaccination against COVID - 19 by health workers. It would take one or two weeks to inform those who are not sufficiently relevant to medical data. Then universality is imposed on the application and on refusals to identify the administrative implications.' I will conclude: to God not dismissal, but in any case to apply the remnant of discipline to the one who illogically refuses while he is on the front line of battle and, of course, if he gets ill, harms not only himself and his family, but also society as a whole. I have too much to say, I don't have time. I note our agreement on Article 40, Mr Stakoura. You are giving a solution that seems to be sufficient and without delay for the workers in the 'DOL'. You have promised an improvement in the regulation to include without delays, here and now, the solution of the problem and of the workers at the MEGA. People are fighting. And I do not know if you already have, while I was not in the Chamber, tabled your relevant speech or you will be presenting it in the course of the sitting today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u179	I'll testify to her as a legislator.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u180	Well, that's an extremely good reassurance for people. I imagine that the wording will be sufficient to cover the problem. Madam President, do I have another minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u181	I'll give you a minute, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u182	I would also like to support Article 41 for Hercules Thessaloniki, because it is a very important regulation. And on the part of our party, I think, Mr Katrin, we have expressed our comfort for a long time in this respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u183	With hectolitre of strength.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u184	And I would like to take advantage of today's intervention to refer to an issue that I have started in the Greek Parliament first by discussing not with you but with Mr Zavvos on the subject of bad bank. Mr. Scandalidis suggested that we be informed by Mr. Stournara about how HRAKLIS is going. The House was required by the law and reassurances of Mr Zavvos to be informed every six months. That's not what's happened. I have been here since the beginning of this parliamentary term responsible for these matters. I've followed the promises. No information has been made. So this is where you fail to make commitments. And secondly, Mr Stournaras must come because the Bank of Greece disagrees with Mr Zavvos's position that HRAKLIS is sufficient and he needs nothing else to discuss the subject of bad bank. Why am I saying that now? My colleagues have told them. Because when you read carefully what you said to Mr Scandalides, I see that 'yes, Mr Stournaras and whoever you want'. This 'anyone else you want' has referred me to my obligation to take the floor. Why? Because we didn't tell anyone else. We say, firstly, that the Minister, who is responsible and fails his promises and promises on the course of Hercules. And secondly, that man, the governor of the Bank of Greece, who is well known to be in favour of the creation of bad bank, a policy which is being expelled from the European Central Bank and which you refuse to adopt. As far as I understand it from your speech, you do not deny it at first sight, but somehow you say we will see it. Now is the time and we want to see it. And before we see it, however, we can hear from the most responsible bank lips how the situation has been with red loans, how it has increased as a result of the pandemic reasonably - here we do not object to the government, obviously - and what means we can put down on the table as a National Delegation to establish it, so that we can help the economy and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u185	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u186	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u187	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, a letter has been sent from me to the President of Parliament and the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs with which the Government is calling for the question of the prospects of the banking system with particular emphasis on the management of non-performing exposures, whenever the House and the committee responsible decides. So the government has already taken the initiative. Secondly, when I said 'who', you will see it in the letter, I am obviously referring to the Greek Banking Union, and I am obviously referring to the managers. So the "who" went to this report. I am actually starting with what you have touched on for the legislative improvements. But I shall refer to two or three additionals. In paragraph 3 of Article 40 of the draft law after the words ‘the list of rankings’ the words ‘established automatically null and void of non-existent lists which conflict with the provisions of this Regulation, which are required without delay by the Special Administrator to draw up a revised table’ are added. I think it covers absolutely what had been put forward, safely. I would also add that the legal systems that I have just tabled in Article 27 for rents explicitly include ecclesiastical legal entities governed by public law, as well as private persons of a non-profit nature. I would also like to say to you that in Article 28 on the checks we incorporate comments which I have heard from colleagues on the dates, with the aim of not registering companies in bank financial behaviour records, so we also cover the time that could be created in these two - three days that we are debating in the House. We are correcting Article 34, so that farmers do not pay - it was also a proposal from the State Secretary responsible - fines for late submission of statements of changes, while extending the deadline for submission of statements of change to 31-3-2021 for the year 2021. I am tabling the relevant legislative proposals in the Minutes. I think it will be the last to inform the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u190	Madam President, I request the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u191	You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u192	We are pleased, Minister, that the amendment we tabled, and at least in paragraph 3 of Article 40, we have accepted it and will obviously be voting in favour of it. We have of course also had another paragraph in the amendment we have tabled. We say that the provisions of this Article also apply to outstanding and new bankruptcy procedures with regard to the claims of workers. Why? Once we have made the decision to make a proper provision, this should also be extended to similar cases. We call on you to take a serious look at the second paragraph of the amendment by the end of the sitting. We agree with the first paragraph and it was our proposal too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Klons Georgiadis has the floor, who is also hasty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will start my speech because I cannot do anything else, I do not have the moral right to remind all of you, but also to all those who are listening to us at the moment from their homes that there is a pandemic, the second in two weeks, from our studying student youth and those who want to support it, as I would be one of them if I did not have the duty to be a Parliamentary representative and to represent Mera25 in our House. It is very important that the rally currently taking place for too many reasons, especially because it shows the spontaneous mood of the people who are directly concerned with the bill we will be discussing next week in this House next week, their refusal, their opposition, their total refusal, one would say in this bill. Also, because it shows that slowly the younger Greeks become fighters and claim their fairness. It is very important for us that this rally and for a second reason, because it effectively destroys your ban on our democratic right to focus and protest. After having been hidden for months behind the lie that we, as Greek MPs, have clearly expressed her concern for open-ended gatherings in her minutes that she has never even given an opinion on such a matter. So it was a pretext to ban mergers. And since we are talking about this pandemic, you will allow me to continue my speech with a reference to what the Minister for Civil Protection, who now seems euphemism, to be this Minister, Mr Chrysochoidis, with their actions so far, who has been protecting the citizens, while he is clearly and remarkably attacking them in a raw manner. He said yesterday or the day before yesterday - I quote, ladies and gentlemen, to feel the danger of fascism that is approaching: "Their habit" meaning our prerogatives, all of them, conceived "to run tolerated and coexistent with extremes - violent minorities, is not a qualification for them. Unfortunately, they are the same part of the problem." And he continued to characterize our wings - the wings of all of us, ours, and you, the wings of our children - assigning them to the threat of abuse. So, think that one of the fenders who is addicted to the threat of abuse and one of those who is used to tolerate extreme minorities, is also the one for whom we indignated from this Step, which forced some ill-brained, some fascoids in our opinion, to hang a sign in his office, saying "I am in favour of the seizures". That's a kind of fascism. And another kind of fascism is the Minister for the Protection of the Citizens of a country to tell conceive that all prefectures feed lawlessness, tolerate it and that it is part of the problem. He also said yesterday that Mr Chrysochoidis - I always read in introductorys, so that I am not told that I am distorting: "The law on meetings was seen as casus belli by some. What happened, after all? Has anyone been prevented from protesting?" We respond directly to him: If he was prevented, does he say, Mr Chrysochoid? First of all, we, seven MPs in Mera25, were prevented from protesting peacefully - because we are peaceful in nature and put - before the American Embassy on the anniversary of November 17, on the anniversary of our Polytechnic. With a threat of physical violence, seven MPs were prevented, on the same day that they were not just threatened, but were beaten by three MPs of the Communist Party of Greece. Nothing happened, according to Mr Chrysochoid. Did you see anything happen? Yes, we did. Protests in this country were banned. So we seven Members of Parliament have suffered this. The JRC Members also suffered it, who, after all, did not save beating from the restoration units of order. If we are prevented, ladies and gentlemen, in this way the Members of Parliament, the elected, the elected, if barbarically violated constitutional rights of the representatives of the people, consider what happens to the people. And I say this because you think about the danger that those who have the boldness and courage to be out here today and claim their rights to a university which will not be permanently closed - as they are for a year near - and which will not have a university police force. I told you last time that it was an acid-like shape of this on its own. Make a break in time, make a gift to yourself and listen to the phrase 'university police'. It's absurd, I assure you. Mr Chrysochidis said many and very nice things. I will only stand by one that was amazing and I think we should have an answer from a government minister, Mr Staikoura, or from the Prime Minister, even better. He said, "No one wants the police at the universities, nor does the police themselves, which is her own job, of course, organized crime. Nor is our job to monitor compliance with COVID measures - 19 by the citizens. EL.AS." Minister told you this "is the last shelter when" - when? - "the system does not work." Oops, Mr. Chrysochide, what do you mean? The system doesn't work? What do you mean? How's that? So many excellences are gathered and you can't make the system work without police assistance? And if, in the end, the police are more competent than you in the proper functioning of the whole system, why don't you finally grant her your position to govern? Then we will also have official police democracy in Greece. Unofficially, police democracy in Greece is already a reality if you heard what the president of Special Guards told us yesterday. He reminded us of the late Georgios Papadopoulos of the dictatorship. He said he's a patient in society, and he needs the police to give him a cure. I'll go through the most important issues. I could not hold onto saying that, however, ladies and gentlemen. I will now turn to economic and pandemic issues. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very often put to all of us - both in society and in here - the 'health or economy' dilemma. What are we doing? Do we completely close the health economy or should we risk public health for the survival of our national economy? You know what, all of you, but you in particular, my dear Mr. Stakoura? In our view this dilemma is not only arbitrary, but also a completely false copy. Because, in our opinion, and in the opinion of the large majority of the Greek people, you have created a dilemma in our view. And how did he create it? But with your endless relics in dealing with this pandemic. I would remind you: from last June until today, when we were begging you not only, but the National Haemodynamics Agency has been telling you for months with messages: 'I have been able to provide you with a thousand tests a day. Why do you not use me?’ Three universities sent you last April e-mails, which they said "Let's give you our know-how to do tests. Why do you not use them?’ Look what happened after that. Since you did not do so, last June you opened up - as you remember very well - the economy. With what kind of relics, though? At first you told us “We will open up, but the aircraft that will come to the middle row of seats will not have tourists. They will only be at two extremes. Once the colossus - I don't know what it's called - said "Oh, I'm not stepping on my foot again in Greece", you said "It's okay, let's die already, as long as the colossus comes to Greece". Why did you say that? Tourism revenue. How much was tourism revenue? According to your measurements, 3 billion euros. How much were the costs of the National Health System, because you opened the tourism? In what way did you open him? Every seventy people a sample test. And when all our islands were filled with cases, you started to run a real test. Well, only a few border tests. Caravans and planes that you had told us that they would have security measures, once your friends shipowners or the foreign colossians of "BOEING" said "we don't step on our feet", at once you said "Okay, it's okay. Everybody, get on the boats. Turn to the planes." Schools and public transport. Workplaces in factories, Mr. Stakoura, where people work like sardines and transported with vans to their workplace as sardines. Schools which open and close each week or at most - very per month and indeed, backwards from the pandemic. The ministers themselves have confessed that you had to shut down the schools at a time when the pandemic was in a greater recession than the one you are now reminiscent of. Most important, however,: Oldmanships in our National Health System. None - I will say it every time until we are all inaugurated here by the Greek people - none at all - is surprisingly courageous - doctor recruitment until now permanently in our national health system! I challenge anyone to give me a name. A foggy number is deceiving so many months over us. He always gives it to either the Minister or the Chief of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, which is a foggy figure for seven thousand people. It systematically refuses each one of you to say what these seven thousand people are. How many of them are doctors. How many of them are injured. How many of them are health workers. How many of them are cleaners and cleaners. Do you know why you deny it? Because once you give the number, it will be revealed how small the number of doctors who have been hired, even in this distorted and irrational and immoral way for six months or for twelve months. Toss them as soon as they risk their lives and clean us up from the pandemic. They should go to the wild. Never to be appointed to these doctors. I ask you, Mr Staikoura, as Minister of Finance, is it or is it not true that at the moment, almost two years later, for almost two years, in fact, for eighteen months, you all owe the overtime of all doctors and health care? And I mean the extraordinary overtime, the ones that emerged due to extraordinary circumstances. It's true and you know it. You'll tell me why I'm not telling the Minister of Health. I'm telling him, but now you're here. Mr Stakoura, I am sorry to say that this is a very irreversible opening-up, Mr Stakoura. Every time you do that. You open it for two, three days or for a week or a week or a half, at a time that ultimately does not allow small and medium-sized business to regain, but not even to undo the goods that have been charged, because you promised them that you would not close their shops. At the same time, in this very short time, when people do not, as I said, even undisturbed, pandemics do well to overcome the thousands of two hundred cases a day. That's how far it is. One and a half weeks. It's amazing. It is surprising how inefficient it is in the new area and how effective it is in evil. Good luck doesn't do anything, to bad everything. Does this opening remind you of anything? The above-mentioned opening of tourism that I did before. It proved totally inadequate, as I told you, etc. The list of your relics really doesn't end. It's not over. Remember that our country in June was the good example of the whole of the European Union, in November it arrived to win - in many introductory forms - and to exceed the daily deaths per population of the United States of America and come out of ministers and prime ministers for months now that they have not made any mistakes. This came out of the sky. It has therefore proved to be completely inadequate. Very interesting, Mr Staikora, do you not find the saying of Kriton Arsenis to deal with small and medium-sized businessmen? He told you about it, accused you of doing exactly what the troika did to our homeland. You lend them with the stagnant, as we know that this is not just the poor thing of a country, but it holds it, for centuries and ever, unpacific. At least in the last eleven years, this method of credit card, the mortgage credit card, holds it. This model that killed our country's economy is used by you as a valid economist toward the citizens of the country who have managed to survive despite the death of their country and are still keeping their businesses open with nails and teeth? That's what you do, repayable advances. You have been told by Mr. Varoufakis and not only by Mr. Varoufakis, your whole opposition has been indulging since last year. They tell you that in these cases, the extra cases of pandemic - and tell me if it is wrong - the money comes in front of a simple reason: because if you don't give all the money, as Mr Varoufakis has said, as Mr Varoufakis has said, you give it all the first day and make your cross come. Why? Why if they don't get there? Do you know who your counterpart is, Mr. Stakoura? Your counterpart is: No, we are the wisers of the children who have been keeping them for the even hardest days. I look at you in the eyes and tell you straight away: Capitalism is very clear. If you're delaying interfering with a domino punk of economics, that becomes a completely uncontrollable form. You still don't realize that that's exactly what's been happening in our country for a year? All these people who are lending them repayable advances, which - as the word says - are loans, will have no chance of paying their debts, after their already existing loans are gathered, after all the tax obligations that would normally come, and even now, until first the tax advance for businesses that have never been opened all year round, have been met. Now you do. Anyway, I will close my speech by telling you - and thank you very much for the tolerance, Madam President - only this: from this attitude you have in economic terms and from this way of dealing with pandemic's finances, which is actually a way of strangling small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, all our country can expect, Mr Stakoura, is three things: Lucetta, unemployment and as a result of all this by extension of national division. We won't help you achieve him. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u195	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Giannis Varoufakis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this is the first bill from your Ministry this year. Good year, I wish you first. I hoped that we would make a start with a bill showing some signs of the ending of the ostrichism of the previous year, that we have a new agenda with what the Greek economy absolutely needs, namely haircuts, private and public debt restructuring, the haircuts that, Minister, will become, the restructuring of the private and public debt that will be done, because a debt, which is not sustainable, is not paid, is tired, tired. The question has always been: When will it be? Will it happen after the bankruptcy of these people who could not go bankrupt, if the haircuts were done before, or later? You are insisting on the prolongation of the crisis, the reproduction of bankruptcy, the deepening of the crisis just so that it does not appear. It's the troika policy, it's your policy. This catastrophe in economic reality, unfortunately, seems to be going on and the only explanation I can give is that you are just earning time. You are earning time at the expense of your voters, especially small and medium-sized ones, of the workers who vote for you. You are earning time in hoping that you will be holding elections sometime before your voters, in the New Democracy, understand what the situation is, before they understand your commitment to what we in Mera25 call the Fifth Memorandum, which is absolutely given the options you have made since March and April. Reading my bill was given this very bad image of a captain, a crew, which, while the ship is sinking, you redecorate the sesslongs on deck. Some of these things would be nice to happen and the seslongs might need a reorder. But here we have a ship that's delusional. I'm going to say two words about the articles that came out of the pages of the bill and demanded me to comment. The most important thing to me in the bill is the census, because, as we know and agree on it - I am sure - the census is the main tool of the state. In particular, the census for the Ministry of Economy, but also for other Ministries, is that for a doctor the checkup, CT scan, urology, blood tests. It's the way to figure out what's going on in the country. I am very concerned, Mr Minister, that I see that in the context of the debate on the digitisation of the inventory procedure, which is necessary for digitisation, it is not specified or understood that this inventory will be done by e-mail or by sms. We are very well aware of the importance of living census. I can't imagine how a decent electronic census can be made. Tell me, tell us, explain. And it is very important that this census should be carried out properly. Another question, which I would like to ask before I end up with the most important census issue, is whether the elections you are planning will take place with the new census. In other words, will we have a redistribution of electoral seats, according to the census that you are now doing, or not? You can't answer that. I guess he's not in your jurisdiction. But it is a question for the government in general. I come to the most important census. Yeah, digitization. But it is something that we at Mera25 say it again: to whom do the servers belong, to which these particularly sensitive and important data of the Greek people will be stored? Will they be yours servers - the government I mean - or will they be servers that you won't even know where they are? And in the software, who's going to have access? Who'll have access to the software? Who will be who will have written the software? Once again, Mera25 hits the alarm, as is the case with AIA, as with other services, which, in fact, are what we call a digital para-state economy, a digital para-state, through direct assignments to companies, which we do not know to which other companies belong, to which other companies that may eventually reach "SILICON VALLEY" Greek public data. The census data is even more sensitive. I would like an answer to that. What assurance the Ministry of Finance gives us along with the Ministry of Digital Governance that the data collected by Greek citizens will end up in the Greek digital public and not in the digital parastate that you are setting up with your companies. And since we are talking about data and domination, you will allow me to return to a matter that I have referred to quite recently from this step to the discrepancy between ELSTAT and OAS data on unemployment. I asked the question the last time we were here and I told ELSTAT gives us an unemployment rate of less than 17%, less than eight hundred thousand unemployed through its well-known methods, while OAS tells us that it has the last time we looked at a million and eighty thousand registered, over 26%. And I said then, ladies and gentlemen of the government: Organize to tell the same lie. There can't be such a big difference. We know very well - as ELSTAT's statisticist - how easy it is to rule that unemployment is what you want it to be, depending on the questions you ask. Do you, like, in the questionnaire, for example, which you ask someone or someone to complete, "the last ten minutes did you call to look for a job?" and if he says 'no', it is considered that he is not unemployed, that he is not in the working population. I see that Mr. Hatzidakis, your colleague, has responded to my invitation to organise the same lie. I read his statement, which reads: 'We take into account the elements of ELSTAT'. He added: "The modernization of the OAED has begun and we have taken the decision to be the one to raise the burden of the subsidised programmes". Well for the subsidised programmes, but when it says "we take into account ELSTAT's elements and we will start modernising the OAS", answering the question of whether unemployment is what OAS or ELSTAT says, you will allow me - and tell me where I am wrong - to conclude from this that you are likely to tend toward ELSTAT's elements and that you will reconstruct OAED to lie the same lies as ELSTAT, that is to say you will disappear hundreds of thousands of unemployed. It is a question that perhaps you should put it to Mr Hatzidakis. So now we're going to some of the articles. I am starting with Article 29, which deals with the temporary measure of State aid to enterprises in the form of the grant of fixed costs. We have no objection to that, but there is something in your wording that is really worrying. Mr. Stavoura, when the Troika imposed on SYRIZA to build the ADI, the Independent - allegedly, the entirely dependent on the Troika - Public Income Authority, the message was that the government, the Parliament, the Greek state decides what tax policy is and the ADI implements it. Here I read in your own article that the suggestion of the policy for this measure of State aid to enterprises in the form of the fixed costs subsidy will - says - be made by the commander of the AACC to you. If that's possible! The cucumbers will tell the manavin what he'll do! Mr Stavoura, please, this is not even compatible with the Troika's message of the so-called independent authority. Please, change it! You can't be recommended by the commander for policies. The commander must be your persuasion instrument - supposedly - to implement the policies. I'm going to Article 30. Of course, we are talking here about the EUR 120 million for AEGEAN. One question I would like - if you can - to answer it at some point is whether the government will have a representation on the board of directors for the shares it will take. Will you ask the managers to account for what they do in the workplace, what they do in covering the AEGEAN network? Or 'take it, we'll take stock, but do we do what we didn't get', as with so many others, if you remember, as with banks and so many others? One is the question. The second thing we were discussing is that during the budget - if you remember - I asked you a question which is technical and I think it is not even your ideology. I didn't get a reply for that. We said that good, you give capital support to AEGEAN - you will also give 'FRAPORT', I do not know who else you will give - small and medium-sized enterprises do not give any capital support. You give loans, loans to the bankrupt. Is that right? Clonas said before, the troika's policy, "we get loans and we give them to the bankrupt", as if it had a liquidity problem when it has a bankrupt problem. And we had made a specific proposal. I don't know if you remember, I'll tell you now. We should have an answer. Dismiss our proposal, but reject it with one thought! It doesn't matter whether or not we agree with that reasoning. We have said that there should be capital aid, that there should be a chance of capital support - the choice of the small and medium-sized ones - and the small and medium-sized ones. And our proposal is that part of the returnee that is going to be returned, well, we don't give it away, but you enable the micro-medium to choose to offer an option, an option to buy a share of the company - so, option is, it's not a purchase - in public, so that you don't have to return any part of the returnee and the public keep the right to get his money back, in case there's a resale of this company for good. I think that this is a very simple and in any case compatible even with your own political proposal. In other words, show that you do not only give capital aid to 'Aegean', at least that! Article 36: Here the mind is getting dark, as I try to think about the discussion that took place at a office in the Ministry of Finance, when you decided to subject yourself to a reduced rate of zoological garden tickets. Why zoos? I have no objections, I like zoos, but why not other things? In a country with 23% cap VAT, you do this and you bring it in here...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u198	Are you insisting? Is that relevant to what I'm saying? Are you trying to support the exceptional practice of reducing VAT on zoos? Good, your right. Allow me before I return to the bill to tell you something which made me impression by its absence. I am well aware that within the New Democracy - and rightly so - you are concerned about the delay in the payment of pensions, the approval of pensions, that you have got companies looking into the matter, to help you, consultancy companies and so on. I was expecting to see something in this bill, because I imagined that you too have a vigilance - especially since you are planning elections - to do so. I didn't see anything like that. And I wonder why, Mr. Stakoura. It's so simple that thing. Instead of the millions in consultancy companies, why don't you have your own people working a little bit too fast? There's no need for high science. It's a simple algorithm. If you go to a bank in any country in the world, there are small applications, algorithms, to which you put some evidence, and they make you a prediction of how much housing loan will be approved. Such a algorithm may well - five elements is that every pensioner has - with the information you put in to make you a prediction of what his pension will be. Why don't you do that? And you can - if you want - also recruit the accountants, pay them a small sum, instead of giving them the millions to the consultancy companies, in order to make a provision from the planned amount of the main pension to be collected on the same day that they are deposited with a responsible statement of 2/3 of this main pension. I was expecting to see something like that, I didn't see it. I mentioned it anyway. I now go to Article 42, I choose to go to Article 42, because it gives me a push to talk about what we have to discuss. It is referred to in Article 42 that, until the adoption of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, projects planned to be financed by the Recovery Fund may be integrated into a strategic part of the Public Investment Programme. So we come to the chase now, because, unfortunately, the economic pandemic is what we have been talking about since March and not what you have been saying. And it will be even worse than what we thought it would be in 2021 because of the turn and the vaccination scandal - because it is a scandal, not only in Greece, in Europe, but also the pandemic as a whole. The Recovery Fund, this is the big request for you too, because every time you're told "what's going on? This is where everything falls apart, you say 'the billions come from the Recovery Fund'. I'll start with the minor before I go to the major, to the point. When we were discussing the Recovery Fund here, you were also ahead when the Prime Minister gladly stated - and I had already enjoyed it - that the part of the aid is very important, but the portion of the loans does not matter. In fact, the Prime Minister in Brussels also said so, and he was right about that. In this Chamber, he said, we will not get these loans. Minister, on 24 January we read an article by Mrs Chrysolora on the proposals by your Government and your Ministry for the Use of Loans - these 12.7 billion loans - for private investments. And it is described in the article that this was a Greek innovation, which will be needed - it says - a great effort to pass the test of Community bureaucracy. I mean, not even the Brusselsians want that. Ups, what happened here all of a sudden with these 12.7 billion, which, according to the Prime Minister, we would not take? And there was reason why we wouldn't take them. Because if we were to borrow more - as if we haven't borrowed enough! - We could borrow from the ESS. They're fine terms of the ESM. The ESM even gave you and even gives you today the opportunity to borrow at almost zero interest rate, to throw money at the ESS and choose not to do so. And you do well because we in Mera25 are obsessed with debt. We believe that in this debt-government the last thing we need is other loans from the troika. That was the reason why Mr Mitsotakis said that 12.7 billion will not be taken. Now I see - deny me, I will be delighted to be disobeyed - that you say you will get them. I continue to read from the article: So, in the recent teleconferencing which you have made from your Ministry with Brussels, the Community's governments have proposed that private enterprises be given loans, but only through European banks, such as the EBRD or the European Investment Bank, and not through the Greek banks, as the government proposes. Is that true, Minister? Are you proposing that the 12.7 billion pass through the Greek banks, with what procedures? With or without guarantees from the Greek State? Because I bet - deny me, if I am wrong - that these 12.7 billion will be charged to the shoulders of the Greek and Greek taxpayers. Tell us. You're gonna get 12.7 billion dollars? You're going to give it through your bankers' friends, with bail, another 12 billion? You've already given 12 billion bail to the predators. Will you give 12 billion more to your friends who will take through your bankers' friends these 12.7 billion dollars? Tell us. We cannot read them in the newspapers. It is not possible in the newspapers to learn that the government is going against the Prime Minister's statements here that we are not taking these 12.7 billion. It is a shame for Mr. Mitsotakis to mislead Parliament and learn from "Kathimerini" what good it does, which eventually takes these loans and gives them to his friends. That was the minor. Now we're actually going to the major. Minister, I would remind you that on Wednesday, 29 July, after Mr Mitsotakis had come from Brussels with the 72 billion that he had spent - if possible, anyway - in this Chamber I had tabled an analysis of what we have received from the Recovery Fund in the Minutes of this House. Because I've already filed it on July 29th, I won't tire you. I had done an analysis and told you that of all that you say, we will clearly take 12.12 billion, or 3 billion a year and forget all about it. I was very ambitious. You entered the 2021 budget just 2.5 billion. You'll tell me 'we'll get it all after.' Yes, as it will prove - and I say this to be recorded in the Minutes of the House - we will not get clear after the various procedures and problems that have arisen. I wish we could get all 12 billion. But all the 12 billion to take, so that my fellow Members and the people who are listening to us can understand, the citizens who are listening to us, the size of the problem, only this year you have 11.5 billion credits to lenders. This year alone! Overall, if you get 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, you have 42.1 billion debt repayments. You have a budget deficit for 2020 of at least 20 billion. You'll see, that's where she'll sit and sit. I think it's probably 23 billion, but we're there somewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u199	Interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u200	Yes, interesting and sadly, Mr. Stakoura, you'll still be here in a year and say...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u201	For 15%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u202	15% is the recession that you have in 2020. Do you have any doubts about that? Don't expose yourself any more. You were exposed last time we talked. You told me less than 3%. I told you the minimum minus 10% minus 15% will close. At minus 15%, the recession for 2020 will be closed, Mr Stakoura. Now where do you have it? Minus 12%? I said minus 10% minus 15%. You said 0% with a minus 3%. Don't expose yourself any more! You don't get the numbers out, they don't love you. Unfortunately, I wish they would get you out because it would be good for the country! One thing I pray every morning and every night before I sleep, and when I wake up, I have wrong and you're right. But, unfortunately, you don't have one and you see that. So you have 42 billion to pay back in the next few years. You'll have a deficit accumulated this year, next year, and by 2023 around 38 billion. I'm here, I'm writing it, you'll see, we'll see it in the next few years. In other words, we have a deepening of the bankruptcy of the Greek public. I'm not telling you now that it's your fault or it's not your fault, but that's the reality. These 12 billion is a drop in the ocean. Besides, they're not going to your funds. You cannot use them like an enhanced NSRF, this Recovery Fund is one - if you want - an amortiser, a way to amortise the financial shock. That's for granted. Two are the political objectives of the Recovery Fund. One is ashes in the eyes of citizens as pan-European as in Greece. All Europeans know why Mrs Merkel has accepted the Recovery Fund, so that there is no financial union. There is a common debt, which is an important development in time, in the economic history of the European Union. But a common debt without fiscal union is the combination of the worst. It's the worst thing there can be. Europe-wide therefore, we have lost the train as a Europe, the Eurobond, the fiscal union. Here in Greece why are all this philology coming and going to save us? So that you do not talk about the legacy of bankruptcy and the fifth memorial that she will bring, which you will not say a fifth memorandum, you will say something else. The second objective of the Recovery Fund is of course not to let the occupants of a good crisis go to waste. It's a fund that doesn't relieve public debt. It is committed to state aid to the already powerful. It is a fund that does nothing to small and medium-sized enterprises, in fact, condemning them once they do nothing. It is a fund that is too much, so that the few who are already rich and macroeconomicly, fiscally insignificant are much richer. The definition of macroeconomic neutrality is this Fund. I said it was the worst combination of the common debt without fiscal union. Let me explain that. It's important that we understand it and disagree. Imagine a Greece structured as the eurozone, the European Union, especially now that the Recovery Fund is created. Imagine not having you, the Ministry of Finance, the Central Economic Administration and having the regions, each region being independent financially supposed to be. And imagine that the Recovery Fund would be introduced into the Greek context and that the regional representatives should negotiate with each other how much money Attiki will send to Thrace, that is, the richest part of the Greek union in the poorest part or in one of the poorest places or in the islands of the northern Aegean. Imagine that there was a common debt, but that should have been done with a political agreement. The beauty of a fiscal union is that it is automatic that, when unemployment rises into one place, whether it is Thrace or northern England, automatically within the framework of the fiscal union, taxes collected in the most prosperous regions are used automatically, without any political negotiation, without any parliamentarians, ministers, bureaucrats in the middle, and this transfer takes place. Here, if we had a Greece formed, such as the European Union with the Recovery Fund, we would have a dissolution of the country. It is dismantling that recovery fund, because it has a common debt, without a fiscal union. So the idea that Europe is going in the right direction, but not fast enough, is completely wrong. What could have happened differently? I told you and in April, I'll tell you one more time. The European Central Bank, which has already lifted all the burden of keeping the euro zone alive since 2015 with quantitative relaxation, should have itself issued a 30-year-old bond of 1 trillion and become this "smotter" that will bind the vibrations. The second thing that should have been done with regard to vaccines, since we have a second scandal now, a second failure that competes with the measrotraction of the euro crisis, the vaccination scandal, is a very simple one. We now have Mrs Von der Lyen, who has essentially been supporting the Franco-German axis, who ordered three hundred million instalments from one French, the SANOFI, which did not produce one, and on the other hand he delayed three, four months in signing the contracts, trying to drop the price, especially the 'ASTRAZENECA' he made 'one and sixty' rather than the 'PFIZER' he did 18 euros. We're talking about a scandal, a gallo-German signature. This is a lady who was a failed Minister of National Defence in Germany and who Mrs Merkel brought with Mr Orban's votes to Brussels. We must not forget that. If this lady was CO of some business, she'd be fired. But it remains in Brussels and you applaud what it does. Well done, congratulations! Now let's see what the solution would be. The European Central Bank will actually pay for the vaccines, because, friends of SYRIZA, you can't get the patent from PFIZER. He won't give it to you and lose it to the European courts. Let's think about how the patent law changes for the next pandemic. Now the European Central Bank could pay as much as it could to buy patents to produce the medicines. And because some will tell me "But can the European Central Bank print money?", I will tell you that it can do it every day. It'll be printed around 7 trillion by the end of next year. The technical part is very simple, Minister. I imagine you know that if the European Council wanted the European Central Bank to pay as much as it needed for patents, it could just ask the 'PFIZER', 'ASTRAZENCA', 'JOHNSON & JOHNSON' and I don't know from which other company or produce them, issue those permanent bonds at zero interest rates, which will be purchased after the European Central Bank. That is quite legitimate and compatible with what the European Central Bank is doing. The question is why they are not doing this in the European Union. The answer is that the way the Eurozone has been built is the dream of the oligararch. There is a central bank with the right to produce trillions which essentially as interest-free loans to the fewer people, and there is no European country in which the Prime Minister or Chancellor can even theoretically make a brave redistribution of wealth from the rich to the poor. That's the dream of the stargirl. They are not willing to see it break, because we have a pandemic and because the whole of Europe needs it. And they end up with a Development Fund which will be the nightmare of the European Parliament, Mr Stakoura, ladies and gentlemen. And I'm explaining why I'm saying that. Because in the end what will be done in the way you set up the Development Fund is that the poor taxpayer in Germany will pay the Greek and the Italian people. That's what's happening! Because who will ultimately pay the common debt, for which you are glad to see it is low, while it is not? The lion's share will be paid by the poor German, who has no possibility of taxing against the rich German who has his offshore in Luxembourg and so on. The poor German will pay your "friends" of the northern suburbs to set up a new food with these many billions that are many, enough for the fewer, but insignificant macroeconomic and social terms. Ladies and gentlemen, to close, it is a lot of the recovery fund money and very few. It's a lot of money, but it's fiscally insignificant and it's not possible to save this country from the fifth memorial and the depth of bankruptcy that goes deeper, because you're delaying, trying to find ways to throw ash in the eyes of many people, people, until you can save them the vote to force them on the fifth Memorandum. We, Mera25, warn that the Development Fund will prove the next major scandal, not only in Greece, but in the rest of Europe. Didn't you see that the Italian Government fell and now the "Directory" decided to sue Italian citizens that they would have their favourite technocrat ex-GOLDMAN SACHS, former ECB? The Development Fund will not only be the next major scandal, but very quickly the Greek people will understand that it is the precursor of the fifth Memorandum in which the "full" of the next austerity is wrapped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ypsilantis from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, starting with today's speech on the Treasury bill, I would like to highlight two very important issues for my region. The first, Mr Minister, concerns tomorrow's suspension of the forest maps in the Dodecanese. In addition to the objections which exist and have been recorded in the relevant Ministry of the Environment for the time when the forest maps are being posted and for the way the grassland is characterised, there is something pending, Minister, which is addressed to you and, in my opinion, needs to be corrected as quickly as possible. This concerns the exception of the Dodecanese from Article 62 of Law 998/79 for the presumption of ownership of the public on forests and forest lands, which is not applicable and does not exist for areas such as the Ionian Islands, Crete, the islands of the former Lesvos Prefectures, Samos, Chios, Kythera, Antikythera and Cyclades, as well as for the entire Mani area. It is a story that really needs to be corrected, Mr Minister, and for the region of Dodecanese ahead of this post, and given that the inhabitants of the Dodecanese must not find themselves in advance. The second was said here by the Minister and it concerns the debate that will provoke for red loans. Minister, you know how the Cooperative Bank of Dodecanese ceased to operate. You know the conditions under which this was done and you know that there are also people who have been wronged. Even the banking system - as much as the Dodecanese Bank influenced - is deeply affected. Along with the pandemic, in fact, the way in which it is now cleared and how to resolve issues that are favourable to systemic banks cannot be settled. We have pointed out many times to the Bank of Greece and here to the Prime Minister that it is necessary to see the legislative problems that exist in relation to this liquidation and not to find our fellow citizens in a difficult position, in a more difficult position than they are today because of the situation in the banking area, but also because of the pandemic. The third point I wanted to raise from here is that we often refer to the issues of reduced VAT rates for the islands, in particular, the opposition, and especially the Mera25. They seem to forget that Mr Varoufakis, by letter from the Eurogroup in 2015, was committed to their abolition, which the Tsipras - Kammenos government then did with the third memorandum. Of course, I am absolutely certain that our government is aware of the scale of the problem. My certainty is that once there is a budget space, the problem will also be considered for the islands, especially those that are remote, they will be able to enjoy the reduced rates of VAT, as is the case at a more appropriate time. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are considering today for the general census of 2021 sets out the framework for knowing the current data on the economic wealth of the country, the size, composition and conditions of housing of households, as well as the demographic, economic and social characteristics of the population, for the preparation of statistics in the context of the country's national, European and international obligations. These will, as far as possible, help to make rational decisions in the public or private sectors of the economy, to diffuse, expand statistical information to the wider community. These statistics are of direct interest to every citizen and are a key tool for carrying out not only academic and research programmes, but also an instrument for regulating a variety of administrative, legal and economic issues, such as state subsidies to the LAGs, electoral arrangements and others. It is one way of controlling fertility in our country, namely the demographic feature, by which we can identify how human capital works in our society. In the same way, the issue of agricultural and livestock activity is also being addressed. They are important parts which will contribute to the development of the primary sector in our country. Along with these predictions, I would like to say that the Greek people are pleased, when they see that they are dealing with pieces which have to do with the adverse consequences of the pandemic. Thus, the decisions that we are now legislating are, firstly, about the suspension of the obligation to pay a rent, at the same time as the provision of the state budget to the leasers for the months January and February 2021, in the case of natural persons 80% of the total rent per month and in the case of legal persons 60%. We also have the possibility of repayment of securities owed during the period from the entry into force of the regulation within seventy-five days of the entry into force of the regulation, the measures relating to securities and the suspension which are given and the arrangements and authorisations of the Minister for Finance for the period of payment of securities owed to businesses in the tourism sector - here also concerns our region - in order not to exclude the lending of those enterprises whose economic activity has not come back because of their seasonal nature and because of the situation that exists. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by pointing out that the Greek people are particularly pleased to see these decisions taken by the Prime Minister and the Greek Government on the issues of pandemic, but also on the general organization of the state and the measures in relation to its financial implications. I would also like to say about realism, Minister, which introduces these measures to improve entrepreneurship, industries and support them. We also have, on the part of the Ministry of Development, the announcements of the repayable advance of six and the dedicated ESDP programme for the focus. The commitment to responsible policies and measures in the economy to maintain economic and social cohesion within the pandemic is the response to safe criticism and the lack of another useful alternative from Opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Ahtsoglou has the floor from SYRIZA, and immediately thereafter the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stagioras. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Madam President. With a slight tolerance, Madam President, if possible. Ladies and gentlemen, we are again discussing a bill under the very exceptional conditions that pandemic has created: again the time to pass and the state remains in the'red', the public health system being extremely pressurised, the cases increasing constantly, the staff in the public health system being on its limit, the defiance of vaccination on a daily basis for vaccination, vaccination centres and the availability of vaccines. The question is, then, where is the government in this whole situation? The picture that the government gives is a follower of developments. It seems that she is more aware of her role as a operator of a switch that opens and closes the lockdown: I increase cases, I impose lockdown. I'm reducing cases, I'm taking the lockdown. In other words, we're talking about the theory of accordion. There is no design and, above all, there is no prevention, even in very basic and self-evident things the Opposition has been shouting for many months, for 11 months, that is, for very serious controls at the workplaces that are also essential signs of virus transmission, in public transport, for mass and free tests, etc. There is, of course, a total absence of action. At the same time, we see it showing an unparalleled zeal and giving all its energy, for example, to pass anti-educational bills that divide society and require, at the same time, society to sit on its couch to see all this and not to speak. In the economy, we are monitoring the development of a specified material course, a specified path of demersalization. What happened to 2020? The non-existent support of businesses, households and workers has led to a very large recession, a huge decline in GDP and a very large loss of income for households. In other words, the lack of a strategic project for public spending has brought about what was, in many cases, predetermined to bring, that is, the very great recession and the decline in incomes. Greece started with a series of advantages in 2020, slowed down in the pandemic crisis, was not so exposed to the global trade chain, had a serious financial framework, and yet it passed the first wave really mild and therefore, it had all the time to prepare, prevent and finally found itself having the deepest recession in Europe in 2020 and its employees to suffer the second biggest loss of income in Europe. Who can really say realisticly, literally, that there is no political responsibility here. It is not the question that there was a recession. The question is that you have been the worst place in Europe, in the level of incomes and in the level of recession. Who can really say here that there is no political responsibility for this management? Some evidence. Over half of Greece's workers have suffered a dramatic decline in income in 2020, more than 30%, the GFCM's research says it all at the end. Seven out of ten households living from business, GSEW research has lost 1/3 of its income. I'm impressed by the way Mr. Skoplakis spread the same investigation. He said that this investigation, he says, was good handled by the government. The exact opposite is the investigation. It says that those who have not suffered a reduction in income were the civil servants and pensioners - indeed - and instead those who came from the private sector and, above all, where the government should have acted to prevent them, they were the ones who suffered a huge reduction in income. And he says much worse things. That we had an explosion of inequality, that more people were impoverished, that people were moved from the so-called middle class to the lower income scales. That one in three people's households, households with less than 10,000 people's incomes, are in a complete weakness of fulfilling the obligations. This is the situation that was created in 2020. What did the government do in 2020? Reimbursement of advances, deferrals and suspension allowances. What's the government doing in 2021? Reimbursement of advances, deferral of payments of suspension allowances. He did exactly the same, just the same methodologies. And indeed, I am surprised that nobody expects that, using the same methodology, which has tangible effects from 2020, we are not talking about theoretical concepts, we can expect different results. In the psychoanalysis this is called the idea of repetition, I repeat a traumatic experience, and I think it will bring about another outcome, that I will correct it. But in the end you do not fix it, you have the exact same effect. Where are we already in the first few months of 2021? Small and medium-sized enterprises are mainly suffocating from debt accumulation, as well as government decisions, and there is enormous uncertainty as a result of these old ones. It opens up - they open, they open, inadequate measures, they do not know what will happen in the near future, measures that are insufficient to prolong the dropper and a huge uncertainty arises. The focus sector. Is there a problem or is there no problem in the focus industry? Are people crazy? Because I heard you say how many things have been done for the focus industry, is there a problem? Before the honourable Member told you that too many people were excluded from the last repayable advance. That's a fact. But let's see the whole thing, is there a problem? People are not advantageous or crazy when they hit the alarm, and they say that this is where we come in, the locks start. I will also submit a survey of the newspaper "KATHMERINI" which shows that mass padlocks have been started in the focus. Is something going to happen here? There will be a sectoral focus support programme or you too will sign the highly irritating statements of the Minister of Development "Let me give the keys" as people now have their despair, have to deal with these incredible revolts of government officials. Is something going to happen in the focus sector? There are four hundred thousand workers employed in the catering industry. Do you realize what will happen if the mass locks start there? And debts. With very modest calculations. The debts created in the pandemic to the public by insurance funds and tax authorities are over 6 billion. The debts created - I am only talking about new debts - to the banks in the pandemic are over 12 billion. I don't have the returnee that a place has to pay off is about 5 billion dollars. What about these debts? Can we register these debts in a recovery process without a serious restructuring of these debts, including haircuts? I think we all agree that there is an objective weakness of payments here. I don't think you think people are strategic mispaid and they, as you all think they are under bankruptcy law? So, if there is no restructuring plan for these debts with a haircut, how can we move on to development? This new generation of private debt and investment also bans employment and the possibility of consumption excludes it is a burden with which it is impossible for the Greek economy to move forward. This, I think, is the real framework within which we are discussing this bill and I think that this bill does not address these major issues or some of these major issues. It has reasonable arrangements, the one with rents, for example, is a reasonable arrangement, involving some injustice, the rapporteur told you, but the crucial thing is that she does not answer the major issues. If I can say just one, two provisions, although our rapporteur has covered them, the rules on fixed expenditure are too late, but the biggest problem is that your regulation does not have any substantial content, it is a shell, at some point the state will be able to give aid to businesses to cover fixed costs. What, when, on what basis, would this aid be a loan or grant, no answer? Everything is referred to in a ministerial decision. In other words, there is no transparency in this matter. On the second issue of 'AEGEAN', our position was, too, very clear, to support the company, not to close - it is important for the flight project - but for the public to acquire shares for the 120 million that it gives. Protect the public interest and ensure jobs. Two conditions we've been telling them all along, and I think they're self-evident. There aren't any of these. We will vote against it if you do not change this provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u207	You're going to vote against it, did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u208	Yes, if jobs are not protected and if there is no direct acquisition of public shares for what it gives, we will vote against this regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u209	You will have to complete it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u210	I'm closing, Madam President. For our part, we want to strike the alarm bell. If we do not change course in the economy as we continue, the country will soon be faced with a debt crisis. Very soon! You have undermined the potential for recovery. When the rest of the European countries are recovering, and Greece will remain at the forefront of Europe and those wishes that exist at this time - umbrellas from the European Central Bank - come back to the Stability Pact, Greece will find itself in a very serious problem. We are appalling the danger of changing this economic policy if it is not already too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs Ahchioglu. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Stavros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Madam President. And today I will speak to you with facts, realism and responsibility. Far from triumphs, dangers and delusions that appear to continue to exist in Civic Antipolitics and disperse to all their executives. It cannot all be so bad and institutions, partners, markets, credit institutions and, above all, the Greek society, to support the effort of the government. The truth is that I have listened very carefully and patiently to the position of colleagues from all the parties in the opposition. And today, as in the committee, many billions of euros have fallen on the table. But no one has dared today to say a number, the total cost. No one dares to say, not even the officers of the Civilian Operations, a sum. Everyone is multiplying the measures, everyone adds new interventions, but nobody says about the bill. The truth that for so many months no one dared to say today, Mr Gregoriadis said it. He said: We proposed that, like the other parties in anti-population, the money should be given, in front of the interventions and then God has! That is what he said today. This has actually been proposed for months by the Opposition to do: give the money without knowing how much the crisis is, how long it will last and then - I repeat just as God has said - make it your cross! This is the big difference between the government and the opposition, especially the Civilianism. The government has shown that it acts directly, effectively and decisively to limit, as far as possible, the effects of the health crisis. We never said we'd cover all the damage. We have never said that there will be no problem with specific social groups. We are, however, in time to cover the maximum possible, taking into account budgetary constraints and cash forecasts and prospects. And we continue to act with morality and responsibility. With timely and targeted interventions we extend, enrich, in line with the dynamics and evolution of the pandemic, the measures to support and protect households and businesses, and we are taking important initiatives, which are in this draft law, to cure the chronic problems of the economy. This is how we deal with a coherent plan, with carefully increased and growing challenges. We make use of all available resources to create the conditions for a rapid recovery and later sustainable development of the Greek economy. On these lines, the provisions of the draft law on which I shall speak basically, but also in reply to colleagues, are also based. Firstly, general census issues are regulated by the Hellenic Statistical Authority. It seems that this matter does not touch the Civic Opposition at all. In particular, I have to admit that the head of Mera25 made a specific reference indicating the importance of this project. The purpose, object, definitions, scope, time and procedure for carrying out the censuses of buildings, population, housing, agriculture and livestock for 2021 shall be defined. So no one realises that the results of the census, as the rapporteur of KINAL said, will be a guide to effective economic, social and environmental policy, and they also cover a number of international obligations in the country. The second provision of the bill relates to the 100% exemption from the obligation to pay a rent for the months of January and February for companies with a government mandate. Today the rapporteur of the Officerial Response made another obedience transformation. I challenged her to answer how she can claim to the committee that the government has been following what the Qualified Opposition has been telling us for months about rents. Today he came, obviously he did not testify the plan of the Officerial Reconciliation and said: You know, we hadn't said about the rents, we said all about the liquidity and there it was somewhere and the rents, but we hadn't said it. In September, of course, we started calling it in Thessaloniki and today we call it more emphatic. Who's following who? This provision includes all retail and catering enterprises, hairdressing centres, aesthetics centres, cultural and sport enterprises, gyms, tourism establishments, hotels, accommodations, tourist agencies and transport services. Thirdly, it provides for 80% of the monthly rent to be paid as compensation to rented natural persons from the state budget for the months of January and February and for this to be extended to legal persons and with a legal improvement that we have now introduced both legal persons of public law and private law of a non-profit nature. What I do not hear is said and particularly important, because it actually suggests that there will be no loss for the owners, is that these amounts are not characterised as income, they are tax-free and unrelated. The amounts that are not collected are not income and are not subject to an income tax and a solidarity levy. You will allow me to open a referral back to the property here. I have heard from a colleague from the Vice-President saying that we did nothing about the property, that what we had said in the election, we did not implement it. Let me remind you a little: we have reduced HNPH by 22% from 2019, a permanent measure. We have exempted the rights of natural persons living in Greece from the rights of resident natural persons, whose main residence is on small remote islands with a population of less than a thousand two hundred inhabitants. We suspended for three years until 2022 VAT on new buildings, and for the same period we suspended the value tax, which will then be reviewed on a zero basis. We have introduced a tax deduction of 40% of expenditure on receiving services related to energy, functionality and aesthetic upgrading of existing buildings. We have established tax incentives for foreign citizens to choose Greece as their place of tax residence. We've modernized procedures for the transfer of real estate. We streamlined the method of taxation for investment companies, such as real estate investment companies, under conditions comparable to the corresponding framework in the European Union. So you realise that what we have said in the election process in six months. Indeed then came the health crisis from February 2020. We had to reorientate our powers, we had to balance between lowering taxes and increasing spending, in order to support society. And at this juncture, in this situation, renters - natural and legal persons - responded and lifted the burden they shared from the first moment. The Greek Government and the Ministry of Finance - and I said this at the POMIDA conference - thanks the owners - leasers for the sense of social responsibility they have shown. And the state is coming to reward this effort. How? We said what would happen from March to October. I have heard a colleague from the Chief of Staff put it, but without funds, no evidence, nothing. For the 71% that has been correctly submitted, EUR 42.8 million has already been cleared. They are all available on the electronic base of the ADP. From 6%, which is not few, there are nineteen thousand sixty-eighty owners, they will immediately be asked to correct their statement because it will have to be demonstrated in some way that there has been a reduction in the rent. Finally, seventy-nine thousand three hundred six people for various reasons do not fulfil the criteria. Within the next few days, the AACC will send specific information and have the right to reasoned objections to the decision and review. Then came November and December. What did we say? We cover 50% tax on the 40% reduction. In these days we paid a hundred and sixty-four thousand four hundred PVCs for November and many owners - more than fifty-nine thousand at first, now have fallen to 30 000 - have not said IBAN in order to enable the state to give what we have predicted. I also call on them from this step forward to declare IBAN immediately in order to pay, credit their accounts. And we are now coming in January and February to take another initiative. Fourthly, payment facilities are available for securities, i.e. cheques, exchanges and stamps. You know, and I said that, with the legislative process, the timescales are expanding and it becomes even greater retrospective for these days, the regulation until the present publication. With this sum of four initiatives I have developed, in fact, we repeat measures, because we consider them extremely successful, as well as many others, such as repayable advance payment, special purpose compensation, cover for insurance workers, suspensions of obligations, reduction of tax rates, reduction of insurance contributions, the abolition of the solidarity levy, and we build a safety net to support households and businesses without envisioning - I will repeat - a truly difficult situation with unprecedented conditions that the pandemic has created throughout the world. Because I have not heard from any spokesman from the Officerial Representation to make any reference to Europe, what is happening in other countries, as if the crisis is only in Greece, and we have measures comparable to those in the health field - every day they are made public - and in the economic field too. And in any case, at the end, we will see the level of recession or other quantitative figures. The pandemic, which has caused a deep and steep recession throughout the world, actually affecting indicators that highlight the difficult situation of households and businesses. We first confess to the difficulty of the situation. I will repeat that we do not cover all the damage to society. But we should also take the truth into account. Obviously, all the parties to the opposition and, above all, the Civic Opposition invoke a study, the study of GSE. I said testify. No one testified her. I'll testify for the minutes for the study of GSEW. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above study, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Can we see any evidence of the study of GSEW, please? ‘It seems finally that the unemployment rate for 2020 will, if not slightly lower, be at least equivalent to that for 2019. It is clear that the government's measures to maintain jobs have achieved the objective of containment of employment.' We read the same study. Did you get past that? The evidence you have just said confirms what the government and the majority of the Parliament recognizes above all, the difficulty of the situation. However, it says the study by GSE - why you do not read it all or silence the truth - this element. And that's all it was? Bottom line: Prevent mass locks. It says the GFCM: "The measures taken by the Government to support enterprises have currently stirred up the mass bands that are caused during severe economic crises". You want more? "GEOFYRA" has helped reduce households unable to serve their housing loans by limiting the number of households with late debts." That's what the GSE study itself says. So I come to tell you - and I will say it and I will repeat it - that the situation is difficult in part of the Greek society. That part we're trying to help. We cover it as long as we can. Confirmed. However, on the other hand, we will not meet all the needs that are created for reasons I assume you understand, on the basis of the budgetary and cash frameworks that we have. By the way, to say a few things about the focus because I was provoked. We respect the concerns and problems of the focus industry. It is a sector that has, in fact, been seriously affected, a sector that has been closed for a long time, which has lifted a great deal of weight. Evidently, however, the state is close to this sector with dialogue and actions. Of all the firms in the focus, 83.7%, sixty-four thousand two hundred twelve firms have received aid from the repayable advances to date - 815 million euros have been allocated to the focus to date - and 1,1 billion euros from the contract suspensions. How much is that? It makes us 1,93 billion euros, half of 2019's declared turnover. At the same time, we do not put the special purpose compensation granted in the first phase, 50 million, the rent reduction, and now the rent zeroing, the reduction of VAT on coffee and non-alcoholic beverages, the reduction and zeroing of the advance tax - that was 2 billion for the whole economy - the suspension of tax obligations. That is therefore the truth. We will therefore continue to be close to the focus on other sectors of the economy that are affected and kept closed, with respect for their struggle and you will see the next time how initiatives for the entire Greek economy will be unfolded. Fifthly, the year of acquisition of income from employers' aid and subsidies and their exemption from the special solidarity contribution for 2020 is regulated. Sixthly, it is regulated to submit a declaration of change to transfer from the special status of farmers to the normal scheme. Let's go to the seventh point at 'AEGEAN'. Here, if I heard strange things. I heard, first of all, from a party, the Greek Solution, saying 'I don't agree with this solution, don't give anything, let it collapse'. Financial aid is granted in the form of a direct grant to AEGEAN to restore the directly related damage to the pandemic suffered by it. The aid amount is, in fact, EUR 120 million. This amount has received the approval of the European Commission, in accordance with European State aid law and has been considered proportionate. Why does the government consider that this provision is necessary? Because the company, which is the main air carrier in our country, as a whole, has suffered as a result of restrictive measures, a very significant loss of revenue due to the huge reduction in passenger traffic. With figures, 13-1-2021, official announcement from the Civil Aviation Service, the total passenger traffic was nineteen million seventy thousand passengers, a 69% drop. The elements of this reduction, the result of the pandemic and the consequent containment measures both in Greece and abroad, show that our country has returned to the level of passenger traffic which was thirty years ago in the far away 1991. At that time nineteen million passengers had been moved to Greece’s airports. The basis of the decision to strengthen AEGEAN is that, when it operates in normality, outside the pandemic, it makes a significant contribution to public revenues and, more generally, to the economy of the country. In particular, in 2019, ‘AEGEAN’ paid EUR 390 million in taxes, contributions and infrastructure charges to the country. This amount is nine times greater than the dividends that have paid the same use to its shareholders and three times above the aid we currently provide for under the arrangement. That's to get a sense of size. So when the company goes well, the performance is immediate and multiple for the Greek State, 390 million. There is now a second reflection: is there a lot? Is it a little? I said that to the committee. The majority of European countries have either already made relevant State aid arrangements or are considering such arrangements. The TAP Air group in Portugal was supported by EUR 1.2 billion by the Portuguese State, which I think is in several respects comparable to our own state. I have heard a colleague say: 'Yes, but that's where the company was state-run and jobs were saved'. It became 75% state-owned, it was 50% and the company, under state control, now submitted an official request to the European Commission for 35% reduction of staff. That for those who want such solutions and who say what is going on abroad. The LUFTHANSA Group was awarded EUR 11 billion. I will return to LUFTHANSA, because I had a specific question: 'Why don't you do what LUFTHANSA? Of the EUR 11 billion 9 billion comes from the German State, 0.38 billion from the Belgian, 0.45 billion from the Austrian, 1.4 billion from the Swiss. ‘ALITALIA’, ‘AIR FRANCE’, ‘KLM’: Grant of EUR 7 billion from the French and EUR 3.4 billion from the Dutch State. I think I also answered that question. Third: so you give 120 million? In order to obtain the above financial aid, the company undertakes to increase its capital previously, amounting to EUR 60 million, and to grant the Greek State with no documentary evidence of the acquisition of ordinary shares, namely Warrants, issued by the company. In other words, we have chosen to use a model of support that minimises the burden on the Greek State and requires the reinvestment of private capital. These securities represent rights to acquire a percentage - I stress: rights to acquire a percentage - of 11.5 on the share capital, as it will be formed after the designated increase, while the State will have the right to exercise these rights within two to five years, after the date of disbursement of the aid in question by the company. If we had gone to the LUFTHANSA model, which I heard from KINAL, in proportion to capitalisations before the company crisis, we should contribute EUR 650 to 700 million, of which EUR 400 to 450 million in common and preference shares. There would then be a direct participation of 25% of the Greek State, but at multiple costs and risks for the taxpayer for the coming years. If the company goes well over five years, the warrants, at the same price as the new money today, will also give us a significant part of the return. Is the stock price up? The state wins too. Is the stock price dropping? The State is not further damaged. This is also the significant difference between the acquisition of warrants against securities, against shares. The exercise price of these rights is equal to the disposal price of the new shares of the company when the share capital is increased. On a regular basis - I think some people know it in here, but it is not 'all' - the sale price of some shares, and therefore the training price is lower than the current stock exchange price, so that the increase in share capital is profitable for new investors. In other words, through the “warrants”, the public can either get the difference between the lower training price and the then highest current stock exchange price or receive 11.5% of the company’s shares, at a lower price than the current stock exchange price, which also marks a higher benefit in the exercise of the right. This way the Greek State ensures that it will regain a significant part of the aid it currently offers the company and is able to obtain economic benefits. In other words, we have chosen a scheme that minimises both the burden and the risk for the State, in the form of only partial compensation for the effects of the pandemic, making it conditional on an increase in private equity capital and ensuring the right to a significant refund of the aid through the Warrants tool. With these tools we have the option of choosing to act at a time when we are being financially advantageous. If anyone is afraid that participation will not recover, then the risk is greater if he has bought the company's shares and not warrants, vice versa than some of the opposition support. With regard to the calculations - because I have heard this too - the provision clearly and transparently says what is going on and it is irresponsible to make calculations in this Chamber from now on about the price of the share, which is listed, I remind you, on the stock market. As far as the rapporteur for Officerial Response is concerned, he argued that when the company wants to pay us, wrongly, the public chooses to exercise the right when the price of the share is profitable. I think I have answered all the questions you have raised in this particular case. Eighth, special management procedures are being regulated by Law.4307/2014 and we also made a special legislative provision to help even further this issue. Ninth, the temporary measure of State aid to undertakings is adopted in the form of a subsidy for fixed costs. I heard a speaker from the Officer's Department saying, "What are you bringing us here? You are bringing us a shell." But that's the way it is. First, you bring this piece up so that you can make a communication to DIGICOM, discuss technical issues, so that you can legislate. That's the process. How would we go with a contact if we didn't have the device? In this way, the aim is to support and protect businesses affected by the effects of the health crisis and preventive measures. We have participated and actively participated, with proposals and targeted interventions, in the procedures for the establishment and amendment of the European Union's Temporary Framework for State Aid. Through consultation with the European partners, the building blocks, parameters and limitations of the Temporary Framework have been achieved to adapt to the new needs and specific conditions created in the Greek society and economy because of the pandemic. In the context of this Union procedure, the relevant consultation and the European Commission adopted the fifth amendment to the Temporary Framework was completed as soon as the day before yesterday. You will allow me to say the main points, because we must all agree in this Chamber on what is decided at European level. These changes respond to the positions of the Greek Government, strengthen the flexibility provided by the Temporary Framework, increase the limits of State aid, extend the time limits of these aids. Many of you have reservations and concerns about the previous period, because you know, in your constituencies, companies that have reached the ceiling, the ceiling for aid. What do we have here now? Extension of the provisional framework until the end of 2021. Very important, because it ended in July 2021. We also have provision for the possibility of converting back-up measures into other forms of aid, under conditions such as grants. Double the aid limits, on the basis of which the repayable advance is granted, as it increases from 800,000 per undertaking to 1,6 000 per undertaking active in primary production to 225,000 agricultural products and 120,000 per undertaking active in fisheries and aquaculture to 270,000. If we add the option granted to an undertaking to make use of the EUR 200 000 limit from de minimis, then the maximum total amount per undertaking can be set at EUR 2 million. At the same time, the aid ceiling is increased, on the basis of which it is foreseen that the State may contribute to covering part of the fixed costs of companies not covered by their revenues. Last week, we talked about 3 million. That's now $10 million. With the proposed provision, which we are debating today, the Government intends to make use of this provision of a provisional framework and to further extend the security network which it has already set up for households and businesses to date. A aid scheme is set up for enterprises which are economically affected by the emergence and dispersal of the krone by means of State support at their non-existing fixed costs. Beneficiaries will be mainly, but not only, enterprises belonging to the directly affected sectors of the economy, showing a reduction in turnover of at least 30% in 2020 compared to 2019, as at least until now is recorded in all European texts. I am opening a parentheses: The repayable advance paid had 20% reduction in turnover and two hundred and seventy thousand companies reported an increase in turnover in the last four months of 2020 compared with 2019. I'm closing the parentheses. The figures of the companies themselves were these. They should also record significant losses in the previous year, taking into account the support they have received, and employing workers. At the same time, taking advantage of the possibility offered by other aid schemes, the possibility of more targeted combinations of these parameters is considered, so that - compare the scope of the aid to include cases specific to the duplication of the problem in their turnover or profit and loss. Next week, we will consult the institutions to hear their proposals on them. The measure will be implemented through the AIA's ‘my BusinessSupport’ electronic platform. And obviously for this reason, we need a recommendation from the ADP. The decision, however, is a joint decision by the Ministers for Economic and Social Affairs. The platform, however, which very quickly can disburse and secure resources to the real economy is the ADP platform. And because I heard something about a manabic by the President of Merabic for the AIA, I would remind you that AIA was introduced by the regime today with L.4389/2016, not by the present government, from the previous one. It is planned within February that the relevant institutional framework, in cooperation with the European Commission, should be completed - and I therefore give you a timetable - so that companies can then be invited to register the relevant data and the information necessary to calculate the amount of fixed costs, as determined by the Ministry of Finance. The maximum aid ceiling and the other aid received by the undertakings will be taken into account but will not be cumulated. This allows undertakings that had reached the thresholds set by the Temporary Framework to receive aid in the context of the pandemic beyond that. And in the last question raised, this aid will be targeted for recovery and will be sought not to be repayable. At this stage we have technical discussions with the European Commission. We will finalise the parameters in the next period, we have notified the regime and very soon, I think, we will be ready to implement. I am not going to say a lot of words with regard to HRAKLES. The rapporteur said that. Provided properties at the Association "New Gymnastics Association of Thessaloniki "HRAKLIS 1908" in order to exercise sports and social activities in the area. The aim is to directly serve sports needs of the members of the Association and to fulfil sports purposes at the time of the use of the real estate. Eleventh, the procedures are speeding up in order to start the projects to be financed by the European Union's Recovery and Resilience Fund. Provision of this draft law provides that, until the adoption of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, projects may be integrated which are planned to be financed from a Fund in the national part of the Public Investment Programme. Twelfth - and finally - the time-consuming problem of public-private disputes is resolved, regarding the property status of thousands of acres, which are within the administrative limits of the Municipalities of Laureate and Saronic and are claimed by the public as a former forest, incorporated within a plan of city, by submitting objections to the Register. At the same time, at the request of the local bodies and colleagues of the parliamentary majority - Mr Vlachos mentioned this - it was decided to extend the examination of public oppositions to property falling within the administrative limits of the Municipalities of Laurent and Saronic, which are not covered by the regulatory scope of this provision, in order to examine the issue of claims in additional areas, with cooperation and with the bodies that exercise rights in them, in order to deal with the issue holisticly. This is why a committee is set up with the participation of representatives of the Municipality of Laureate and Saronic. You will allow me to tell you, however, because I have easily listened to the debate we had with the mayors and here in the Chamber by a few, a few speakers, that this issue is easily resolved. ‘A proposal to enter and solve it’. I wonder, forty years, why wasn't it solved? Forty years why didn't anyone put this very easy proposal? Obviously, the subject has many dimensions. We and I personally committed ourselves to this: we have taken a first substantial step. In one area, the evidence says that we are helping more than seven thousand families. We will take other steps, in a fair way, but - I will say a word - safely. We'll legislate when we feel safe. These issues, if they were easy, would have solved many other governments in the past. But they didn't solve them. They hid them under the carpet. Let's take them seriously, with social sensitivity, but also safely. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, it turns out in practice that the government, once again, has shown vigilance and determination in addressing the challenges that the ongoing coronary pandemic is giving rise to. With a plan, with actions consistent and targeted, we adapt and enrich our policies, ensuring maximum support for society and the economy. We are correcting distortions of the past, solving problems of the present and standing ready to seize the opportunities of the future, so that 2021 is the year of relaunching for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u214	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u215	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u216	I would ask you to allow me to make a statement, in less than a minute, to inform the House of what is happening outside this House at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u217	You only have a minute, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to inform you, Madam President, as well as the other Members and the ministers who are here, that the pandemic organized by our student organizations has expired just now against the bill that the Minister of Education is going to bring to Parliament next week for a vote. The rally was organized by the student organizations almost perfect. It was done without any unforeseen treatment and without any unforeseen treatment. It ended about a quarter ago outside the Greek Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u219	We read them on the websites.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u220	Please, I'll finish. And then, when the gatherings left, once again the Greek Police completely attacked them, in the tail of the concentration that had not thrown a single bottle of water, using a shine of chemical and tear gas. We want to denounce the fascist behaviour of the Ministry of Civil Protection in this House. Furthermore, if I may, Madam President, just say to Mr Stakoura, who mentioned the following namely to me: dear, Minister, when I said it all, we put it all in the economy and do our cross, I meant a very simple thing that you will understand - I am sure - why you are an economist. Very simple and I shall end immediately, Madam President. I meant that in capitalist structures, in capitalist economies, when the economy, like the ones we are living with the pandemic, there is geometrical progress in the collapse if it is not addressed on the first day. What do I mean by that? That if you don't give -- symbolically, the numbers -- 1,000 euros in the first month, it won't be 10,000 euros in the second month. It won't be enough. Ten billion after a year. What we are proposing as a party has never been tested and we do not know whether it would be functional, that is to say, to give it all from the first day on the market. But what you have decided to do as a cure at the place is to fail every day, Minister. And we will be here in a few months, which will be the reason why we have the fifth memorandum. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u221	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, the following parliamentary representatives have asked for the floor: SYRIZA, Mr Tsakalotos, who has asked for the floor first. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Hetas will take the floor, whoever has half the time, because his chief has spoken. And then right after that, Mr. Katrinis. Come on, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u222	Madam President, just a minute, just to put forward some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u223	All right, Minister. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u224	I am presenting for the Minutes of the House the latest legislative improvements. It's just a number of funds. There's nothing wrong with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u225	Thank you very much, Minister. The Rules of Procedure say that parliamentary representatives can speak immediately after the Minister. That is why I give the floor to Mr Chakaloto. Otherwise, you know that we are following the procedure by two Members to put a parliamentary representative. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Madam President. It has become almost commonplace that we are living cosmogenic moments, that everything changes in health, economy, society, that we all need to change how we think. You said it yourself yesterday, Mr Karaoglu, and you did so. We see Merkel and McCron reports, we see Draghy, we see Byden. Except from you, the Members of the New Democracy and the Ministers, I don't see it. It's like you don't have that. It's like you don't mind, like it doesn't affect you probably. It reminds me of Alephant's old joke about a player who didn't very much appreciate him by the government as a whole, which says: "The child doesn't have it. You send it to the booth for chips and it comes back with shrimps." Don't you understand how important the difference is? And what you are left with is another joke that Antonis Pantsos, who, as you know, is conservative to his political beliefs, who has humor, does himself self-criticism and says about himself: "I am one of the people I prefer the most vulgar flattery than the most constructive criticism." Where are these different ideas that you say we need to change, see the world differently after the climate crisis, the health crisis, the economy crisis? Where are those different? Alexis Tsipras speaks of the patent - Mr Varoufakis has another approach, but the goal is the same - and the Prime Minister is ironing him that he wants to nationalize "PFIZER". Instead of having a big conversation about the involvement of pharmaceutical companies and the need for people right now, remember what happened in South Africa and India with the medicine on AIDS and how they broke the patent there, because they said that our people in India and South Africa cannot die, they are not children of lower God, you are ironing Alexis Tsipras that he doesn't know what he's saying. You cannot even get into this debate, as you cannot even say in the debate what we are doing as the European Union for this pandemic. You remember Andrew the Blonde who made the Valletta deal to be seven - eight European countries negotiating for the medicine, so that there would be a balance of power and not every country alone. That goes too. We forgot. You do the same in economics. You're saying that you're changing, that you're thinking again and Mr. Skulakakis says that what we're spending, whatever deficit there is is is borrowing from the future. Is it true, Mr Stavoura, that you have so many heterogenesis and you are so good in the economy, can you explain to Mr. Pyliakakis why this is wrong, that when you have a deficit, it is true that you are being borrowed from the future, although only if we are in full employment? What if we have clear resources if we have unemployment? You said we're going well to unemployment because it's like 2019. You didn't tell us all about how many people are in poverty. Do you understand? Can you explain that to Mr. Dogfish that this is not the case? It is very worrying that the Minister of Finance says exactly the same, what you said to neoliberalism, that what we spend, if there is a deficit, is a loan from the future. It's not true. It is not the case when we are unemployed, because state expenditure in this case brings workers to work, work, and create more wealth. In the second year in all the books of macro-economics, at any university in Europe and America, and if you do economic lessons, you'll learn that thing. And you continue to have the same ideological approach. Where are you in the big debates on Europe? In fact, I do not know what Mr Stagioras or the Prime Minister thinks of the big issue and the Stability Pact. Is he just supposed to go back? Does it have to be abolished to have something new, as we say? I don't know what you're talking about, nor do I know what you're doing about it. I have no idea what you're suggesting, if this thing can go on. This is where an entire debate is taking place. It has intervened, except for the left-wing people, Lagard, Draghi. Yesterday we had the joint text Merkel - McCrone - Michel and three others - Guterres seems to me - and you have a provincialism and you say that these are not for us, we are here in Greece, we are already politicians since 1950, we will do the same thing, we do not change any idea and we go on. For the Recovery Fund, too, there is an entire debate. Should there be restrictive conditions for what interventions you have to take? Are these in a neoliberal direction? Are you interfering with this? Our rapporteur, Katerina Papanatsiou, tells you what will happen with this PPC, which we are about to spend now and see if the costs will be approved afterwards. And Mr. Skolakis says we'll take the risk. Is that really a strategy? Do you know what the world is afraid of and what the financial newspapers are saying that are not smuggling? They say, precisely because you're afraid you won't make enough investments fast enough - I don't know if Mr. Varoufakis' ruthless predictions are right for what you can do within a year - because you won't make it backwards: We find the entrepreneurs, they tell us what projects they will do, so we solve the technocratic, we give them a package, we approve this and then, to think about Mr. Gregoriadis, you do the same thing and say: 'Let God help them.' That's what I understand if you want to be ironic with my good colleague. That's what the street says you're doing. And you also criticise us that we have said nothing about the census and how important this is about economic and social policy. Of course, it is important, but you have to have an economic policy to be important, you need to have a development strategy, you need to know where you want the priorities to be, where you want the economy to go, how to solve all these problems that went bankrupt in 2009. It was obvious, despite all that growth we had, that growth was not sustainable in the years before 2009. Where is this priority development plan? The first indication is to invest some businessman whatever it is to show some numbers and prove how unfair the opposition is. Now let's go to 'Aegean'. You really don't understand how the world changes into it? So, what did you tell us? There are two aspects to what you're doing. The first was that you placed great emphasis on whether the public is better guaranteed with warrants than if we had taken stock. First of all, since we give 120 million - and you explained this to me in a private debate that we had - and if I did not understand it, you will fix me, I am sure, because, at least perhaps my law is not well, it is not clear to me that we will buy the shares at a price at a price that will be at the end of the share capital increase process and hopefully it will go better - which we all hope - the company will then sell them at a higher price. And why shouldn't we have these? Why should we pay them? Are we going to give 120 million and then pay the prices again? So the dominance is that. And the dominance is what they told you both KINAL and Mera25: Why shouldn't we have shares so that we can have a say in the company that we're giving 120 million? Why can't we have someone on the board? I know what the answer is: If you don't have a development strategy and if you don't know what you want for tourism and development, what can you do with man? Consider that it may be some other government after having some strategy, which it would like, not to control the company, but to have information, to know what is going on, to advise on how the government itself sees it in general. But that's not even it. The main point is the other aspect. What are the restrictions? I do not know what AEGEAN will do, but I know what Trump did, which the great criticism was for much more than what you and Europe have given. The business took them, they gave them as bonuses to managers, they gave them to dividends, they gave them to make takeovers, "business as usual" we say. Isn't that right? This isn't how capitalism worked for too many years before the crisis, this way? How can it be ensured that AEGEAN does not do so? I'm not saying people intend to do this, but why don't we make some criteria? Why don't we also make a few criteria that show the Greek people that it's going to end what we had until 2010 and the crisis, that profits are private and damage is socialised. It's over! Let's show that something's changed, that we've realised the world wants something else. And what's left, since you can't make these changes? What's left is we're returning to the 1950 NRA. In other words, we have the connection of education between the Minister of Civil Protection and the Minister of Education. Cooperative, they're sitting together! Mr. Friend told you that 0.1% or 0.01%, twice as much is violence in universities than it really is in society. You should have a million cops if it was the same rate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You are returning to authoritarianism - and I will end with this, Madam President - and what concerns the citizens more and more is that you are putting democracy at risk. No one refuses to win the election. No one denies that you have the right to bring parliamentary work and pass bills. But democracy is not the minimalist theory of democracy that believes in some extreme right-wing republicans in America, that democracy is just every four years and we can prosecute the government, but it has substance, it has involvement, it has reactions, it has socialism, it has dialogue and it requires that bills that are not for the pandemic or the economic consequences of the pandemic should not exist. You cannot say that because of pandemic there can be no meetings, there can be no democratic dialogue, but we can govern and that does not affect the quality of democracy. Citizens have the right to question bills on education and employment relations and a number of others and you take this right away. What right are you doing this with? We do not dispute that such a bill should be discussed or on health, but we strongly question that on the one hand you can say that pandemic must restrict the right of society to react, but we will continue to make bills as if there is no pandemic. So - and with this I am really ending, Madam President - we do not have a threefold crisis: economic, health, climate. We have another crisis. It is the crisis of democracy and the government's effort to be with all these forces and beyond Greece, who consider pandemic to be an opportunity to limit democracy. And that I hope you will pay before it is too late, because my fear is that you will not take advantage of such an approach, but other powers that you have nothing to do with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Konstantinos Hetas, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u228	Madam President, thank you very much. One question before I go to the bill. Sorry, don't we have a pandemic and a lockdown and a curfew? How did it go out again? I don't really understand. How are the marches? With the world closed in there are marches? In fact, it happened, I'm just reading - I don't know if it's true - that they threw paints at banks, they were damaged at bus stops, a group got distracted from the course - as usual - and flew stones at the police, that is to say to understand a little, because moments are critical, what we say in here. That's all about the course. Mr Stavoura, we, by the mouth of our rapporteur, have asked you some questions about 'AEGEAN'. I want you to answer some things and not a card. We're not telling why. Questions we put to you. You confirm, yes or no. Question: AEGEAN has received a EUR 150 million loan from the banks with a guarantee from the state, public, 80%, yes or no? Here there is 'yes' or 'no'. Second question: EUR 115 million was granted to airlines and, if so, what did AEGEAN get from them? He's got all 120 million now. Let's go down. Regarding the forty-six aircraft, which its fleet renewed on one hand, while it could do so gradually 'take five', 'other three','see how it goes', 'in two years other four', who will now pay'? What about this story? Another question: With investment in Romania? You have to say that a little bit, answer us. What about the investment in Romania? And that's not where they have a crisis? And that's where they won't have to make money? In Greek another 24 million. On the one hand, we have our poverty - that is, AEGEAN has been afflicted very much - and on the other it is investing and buying aircraft, investing in Greek, investing in Romania. And what does AEGEAN and Greece, Mr Staikoura, have to do with LUFTHANSA and Germany? What does Germany have to do with a bankrupt country, such as Greece, that you compare apples with pears? What does one have to do with the other? We are not negative in supporting AEGEAN as a carrier. She itself denies the term 'national carrier', but she is our only carrier at the moment. And for the warrants we're against the shares too. You did, but take 40 percent, not 11.5%. Take 40, not 11.5! The same as the 'AEGEAN'. I'm coming to the bill. A very serious item, to which we should refer a little further, is the issue of census. I am referring above all to the members of the Government and Members of the New Democracy. You know, you - Mr Karaoglu, you are also the rapporteur - here you legislate, you are the government, you govern this place. You are not commentators or findings you must do from a parliamentary step. The evidence you mentioned a little while ago, when you spoke this morning, I told the first committee - remember - that Greece is sinking, that we will be five hundred thousand less in ten years, that you die a hundred thirty-eight a day, four thousand two hundred a month, that in three decades we will be nine million. We have hit the risk bell for too long, Mr Karaoglu. It's not about making findings. The question is what you do to support the Greeks, so that they can again give birth to Greeks. Can we all agree in here? As an example, so that you do not now tell me that we are politically disagreeing, etc., let it go - Orban. Let's just say he's mean, shiny, whatever you want. Orban, what did he do? Prolongation, Mr Staikora - here it concerns you - repayment of loans from those who have two children. All families, therefore, in Hungary had a loan, made them an extension of the repayment of a loan for two years. Those who had two children! Those women under 40 were getting married, they were given an interest-free loan, Minister, amounting to EUR 31,000! 1/3 of debt will be deleted as soon as these women have a second child. Three kids? Delete the debt of 31,000 euros he gave them. Why don't we do this here, too? Poor Orban, whatever you want to say. Why do we not apply these to support the Greek family, to hit the root of birth? Lifelong tax exemption for those women who have over four children! And his economy went very well, and the births increased, and Hungary did not have the mess in the census and birth rate Greece has! He didn't have it! But that is political, prevention and serious measures. Tell me what measure you're taking. The 2,000 euro birth allowance? Is that it? Here, examples. The best solutions are when copying someone when copying someone's solutions when they're right. The best solutions are when you copy. Show, then, in practice that you support the Greek family, that you are in the mood to fight for birthhood and support the Greek people! That's it! These are measures! Can you? So let's get a census. Tell us a little how you plan to censor all these people ghosts circulating out there. One out of six people - I told the committee as well - will say it from a parliamentary step - is a card migrant. Imagine how many people are without papers. I'm running, Madam President. Let us go further: in the measures that we are taking, Mr Stakoura - because the equation you are calling for is really difficult, really, whoever says the opposite is obsessed - it is not so much in these measures that we have some objections and we have developed them before, but in the fact that you closed the focus as a government and put it into the neck of many thousands of people. With your hands, the government has passed the nipple on the neck of restaurants, you have thrown their workers into tourism, artists, people of sport, amateur sport, retired, along with our fathers, who have worked a life honest and have not seen their money and have now been forced to borrow, while they do not owe one. Three hundred thousand Greek pensioners! And can I tell you something, Mr. Stakoura? Pick up some of your members - not you, the government - because they cannot in their pains above, their poverty and their debts - so I can say it popularly, to fall to the level of what he said it - to sell and madness, 'give me the keys to your shop'. We take the shop keys to the gentleman who asked for it, but the gentleman knows that when he gets the keys to the store, he'll get the gentleman's unpaid bills, he'll also get the fixed costs of water, telephone, electricity, he'll get the insurance contributions, get the traffic charges, get the company cars, get the bills owed to the suppliers, get the uncovered checks. He'll get it all when he gets the keys, because it's not all verbal excesses. Because things are serious and they require seriousness, at least by the politicians of the government. Madam President, I want another and a half minutes. Let's go to the vaccine issue and hang up with that. We are, in fact, vertically opposed to any imposition - directly or indirectly - because there is also the indirect enforcement of the vaccine. So we say not to be forced and we condemn every employer - because that is the case - who blackmails his employees that if they are not vaccinated, they will lose their jobs. Finally, clearly, we have been entitled to vaccines. Acts speak, let go of what we say. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Vaccines: What were we talking about? ‘Be careful, reluctance’. Now you're talking about Sputnik, we've told you. Medications: we've been talking about monoclonals. Right here, too. Economy: Two hundred forty instalments. You're listening, but late. Checks: Same. Listen, we know what we're saying, we've got an experience of life outside. And where else are we entitled? Equipment, that you paid as the Ministry of Finance, which you normally have to leave, Mr. Stakoura. The equipment must go to the Department of Defense and not to you, to the Department of Defense. They have to come back. We are entitled to borders security, a wall in Evros, fences and so on. We are entitled - and we hope that we will not be entitled - to our national issues and the Aegean, where there is an absolute coexistence of New Democracy and SYRIZA. And I close with this - the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative is missing - is unable to compare the press to say - the Parliamentary representative said - that if we go through the agreement, we are opening the aisle with the circumstances, because - he says - if we do the Prespecies Treaty, we will also be harming the Treaty of Lausanne. Well, do you compare the Lausanne Treaty to an agreement? The circumstances are different, the agreements are different! Is that where you arrived? What does the Treaty of Lausanne have to do with an intergovernmental agreement, as we have said many times? And 'policy' means 'I see, I predict, I prepare, I fortify'. I'll see you one more, and I'll close here in thirty seconds. Harop, drones aggressively. Take them, they're perfect for the islands! The President told you a while ago. Harop, get in, watch them, take them! It's the future! And, in the sixth generation of Europe's aircraft, the war aircraft that Europe is currently building with co-production of Germany, Italy and France must also enter into this co-production, so that we can bring all the benefits.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u229	Please complete, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u230	But we have to see the front. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u231	We will now give the floor to the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin. Wait a minute to get the Step ready, Mr. Catherine. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great interest to the Minister of Finance's speech. Of course, the juncture is very critical, it is a time when workers are struggling, businesses are growing, the public sector is cycling, and the government observes and is ideologically ideologically obsessed, embarrassing, but also painful reality. On the one hand, it calls for consensus from the parties and restraint from the citizens and, in practice, for it to be blocked. I have heard from the Minister that he will renounce the triumphs, the dangers and the delusion, and I am really wondering. One viewer in the last ten months who has seen the public debate most of the time being dominated by government ministers will have heard too many triumphant things, especially for the first phase of pandemic, a number of dangers when things are giggling. As far as delusion is concerned, I think that no one really can have any more delusion. And as for fraud, I will withdraw the 2021 budget and the estimate for growth of 4.8%, a budget based on increased tax revenue, revenue from tourism 60% compared with 2019, support measures have been completed by April and, of course, the influx of EUR 5.5 billion from the Recovery Fund. Today the 'WOOD' gave an estimate of 3.6% for growth and tourism in 1/3 of 2019. That's for the delusion. Bank of America gave 2.8% for 2021. Mr. Minister has a figure of 4.8%. In tourism, the President of the SETE says it is very optimistic to estimate 50%. The EuroCONTROL European Agency said the day before yesterday that the reduction of means of transport would be between 55% and 70%. Some say that the most we get to 40% of 2019 tourism. What does the Change Movement suggest? I put it in the Minutes, please. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have proposed a reduction in VAT on accommodation and on focus for 2021, we are waiting. Tax measures: you have not told us - I told the committee the other day - what you will do with the evidence of living. Here the assets remain unchanged, income declined, the fellow citizens who will be taxed on the basis of evidence of living are increased. We have no answer from the government. What does the government say about revenue? It awaits the first two months of EUR 9,35 billion in revenues, EUR 1,35 billion more than in the corresponding two-month period of 2020. In fact, Mr. Skylakakis told us the other day that the traffic charges should be paid until the end of February and said that the financial resources are finite. I wanted to say to Mr. Skolakakis - he is now missing from the Chamber - that the households' resources, each household, are finite, to pay all these obligations, not only the first two months, but all in 2021, a year with the lowest declared income since 2002, with a tax shortfall of EUR 9 billion last year and a total loss of EUR 14 billion and arrears of EUR 6 billion further, because we are talking about fraud in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen. With this information, really, Minister, what budget will you implement? You spoke about the discharge in respect of the payment of the rent, which is a proper measure, as we have said, and we support it, as well as the 80% of the monthly rent paid to the hirers with the sums being tax-free and irreparable. In fact, you said you were the first government to care for property owners. At the same time, however, you do not tell the National Representation that you are moving towards the harmonisation of objective and commercial values with a commitment to complete within 2021 and with over three thousand three thousand regions, mainly populated areas, and with increases that will bring HISYA together and at least seventeen more taxes, fees and fines. We are talking about supplementary tax, property tax, inheritance tax and parental benefit, distribution, usage tax, exchange tax, combined tax, subordination document, contract registration fee. In fact, only VAT and capital duty have been suspended by these nineteen total property taxes, the increase of which will also increase taxation. Really, after all that you insist on saying that citizens will pay EUR 8 million less in real estate taxes in 2021? Let's go back to the deposit. She stayed out over 55%. We so far have not been officially informed how many beneficiaries of the repayable advance are. On the 30th of January there is an announcement for three hundred and six hundred eighty - nine. The government, then, says that over half of the companies are unaffected in the country and the Minister told the committee that the state did not set a strict framework and that 40% of them had an increase in turnover in the last four months. So I, Minister, ask: at least 15% of the companies that had a turnover of up to 19.99% are not affected? Is it or isn't it? Approximately 15% had a turnover drop of up to 19.99%. Are they affected or are they not? Secondly, you are giving money to the repayable advance on the basis of a reduction in turnover and are not beneficiaries of companies with an increase in turnover or with a reduction of up to 20%. Let me remind you, to see the stability of your policy, that in the first three cycles of the repayable advance the criterion was a 10% drop in turnover, when it was 100% loan. When you made it 50% support, because you would have had more rightholders and more money to give, you put 20% to cut it and go on. You are therefore giving the rent and you are giving it to all the SAR, regardless of whether the company has an increase or a reduction in turnover. That's something the U.S. emphasised. What is the government doing, ladies and gentlemen? Puts other criteria on the returnee, 20% tick drop and 10% on the first three phases, and other criteria on the rents, as long as you're in the affected CAR, even if you have an increase in tick. So let's go to the return payment 6. You're going to raise it, it's going to be a total of 1 billion. We, therefore, as a Change Movement, Minister, have proposed that you increase the repayable to 5.5 billion in 2021 to 70% of aid and convert the first three cycles of the repayable advance into 50% subsidy. This is something we have said since 18 November. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because you are accusing us of not costing the measures, these extras we ask are EUR 4.1 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u233	Is that all you're asking? Anything else?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u234	That's right, the returner. So let's go now. A week ago you borrowed 3.5 billion with the ten-year bond at 0.8% interest rate. So while, with these 3.5 billions, you were aiming to repay the IMF loan from December - you had already said so since October, you had received the approval of the ESM and had announced that you would pay the loan in December - that you did not, because you obviously had other priorities, I mean you would pay obligations because of the pandemic. So I ask now: after you have taken the 3.5 billion obligations towards entrepreneurs and workers, because of the consequences of the pandemic, are they not alive? What's the reason you're in a hurry to pay it back? Because it sounds like you're doing it, because you wanted the rest of the loan to fall under 1.7 billion so that it can't be supervised in the country's economic policy. I ask: In the last year, Minister, does the International Monetary Fund participate or does not participate in meetings with the institutions? Soon, does the International Monetary Fund participate or does it not participate? He's been involved in the last year?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u235	Of course, in all evaluations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u236	So he defines politics. So, instead of giving the 3.5 billion employees and entrepreneurship to support them now, you choose to pay back, because you obviously want to save this supervision. It's an answer. We are now going to subsidise the fixed costs. We are talking about a measure that has been advertised by the government. In fact, over the last seven, eight days, I have heard from the Minister more than thirty times. This is a measure, ladies and gentlemen, which will not exceed EUR 400 to EUR 500 million in total, in fact it will replace the repayable advance. The Minister said that Greece has expressed concerns about the existence of companies that have already reached the aid wall. The EUR 800,000 were hitting a roof - that was the word you said - and we could not help them any more. Now, however, after the review of the framework, they can continue to be strengthened. You said a moment ago that from EUR 3 million we will go to EUR 10 million in this measure and to the aid paid from EUR 800,000 to EUR 1,600 000. In fact, you said, Minister, that I copy exactly what you have said in public - that these are substantial interventions for Greece. It is no coincidence that BSE at the hearing called for immediate implementation of the revised limit. I think it's no accident. You understand that, too, don't you? A budget, therefore, which will be a total of EUR 500 million, calls for aid to be allocated to ten million in forty, in fifty, I do not know how many people they will be, beneficiaries. And it is certain that the increase in the aid cap will result in higher amounts sharing in fewer enterprises. We have expressed disagreement on this, Minister, which we are saying directly. Will you establish specific limits and percentages per enterprise category, so as to strengthen the self-employed, micro-enterprises and micro-enterprises and not end up with the 'lion' in micro-enterprises? But has this been done in Greece? Of course it's done. It was in the first phase of "TEPT II" and the Guarantee Fund, when 2.4% of the money was only taken by companies up to 100,000 euros. But that's populism, as Mr. Staruras will say. But Mr. Stakoras himself in the returnable deposit five changed the cap of 350,000 and took it to 100,000 to get more businesses. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So what are we telling you? This money must go to self-employed people, to micro and small enterprises with a specific quota. Moreover, from the sound point of view, you want to exclude from the GEOFIRA 2 loan programme the very large companies, because you say that they have already received enough money from the liquidity instruments. So, what's happened so far? There are enterprises that have received aid from all the liquidity instruments, from the four, five pre-payment cycles from both cycles, the Guarantee Fund and the "TEPT II" and have reached the "standard" of aid, which now enables the government to increase even further, and there are thousands of companies that have taken from the returnees of 2, 4 or 6 grand and have far greater needs. Minister, in an interview you gave Tuesday, if I'm not mistaken, you made a report I'd like to make. In fact, I will also relate to the debate he has asked for the Red Loans Change Movement, Heracles and Bad Bank to take place. We have seen with great pleasure that Mr Tasoula was already announced at the Conference of Presidents that our request is accepted and in consultation with you, this committee that called for the Change Movement will be established to see the question of the private debt of the country, which is currently a time bomb. I repeat, Mr Tasoulas announced it at the Conference of Presidents. So you said in this interview that it is a suspension of instalment payments in four hundred and five thousand four hundred seventy-three loans. That's how you announced. That's great! Now the banks come and ask for 50% of the dose before pandemic, when the professionals have to pay the obligations of the first quarantine, the obligations of the second quarantine, the current obligations and, of course, the debts of the ten-year crisis. So the banks come and ask for 50% of these four hundred five thousand suspensions. You talk about three hundred and sixty-six thousand - you insist, Minister - arrangements for loans from banks and management companies. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how many of these things have been relaunched? I present the Bank of Greece's interim report, which was notified to us a few days ago. Six out of ten short-term arrangements rekindle within three months in the thousands of regulations announced by the government and over eight out of ten, according to the Bank of Greece, within 12 months. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Seventy-four thousand applications have been approved. We ask you, Minister, how many of these grants from the GFCF programme relate to non-performing loans, i.e. a borrower who owed and was ‘red’ and had to regulate the loan to be subsidized by the GFCF programme? How much of the subsidies do they involve such cases? I'll tell you, it's less than 10%. For the remaining 90%, therefore, the only solution is to auctions. Those who have not regulated, so they have not been subsidised, are currently directly faced with the range of auctions. They are asked by the banks and the services. If the courts open tomorrow, twenty-five thousand auctions will be scheduled in 2021, according to valid notarial sources, and a thousand eight hundred auctions, of which 40% are residential. And I ask, Minister, directly: have you agreed with the institutions, yes or no, to start auctioning? For what real estate and to what limit? And because you made a comparison...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Catarini, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u238	I'll take my dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u239	You're already talking about the time of dentistry. I've been telling you that your whole time is nineteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u240	Why is it nineteen? It's 12 and six plus three, a total of twenty one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u241	I'm sorry. Yeah, twenty-one. If you run out of it, I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u242	With all due respect, the Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, Mr Heitas, spoke fifty percent more than his time, from six minutes to nine, when the President spoke to him more than twice a year. And you come and tell me that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u243	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u244	Please calm down. I did not make that intervention so as to increase the situation. I'm just letting you know how much time you have. You know that. Keep going. I'm not taking the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u245	Good. Thank you, Mr President. So the Minister made the comparison the other day at the press conference and said: we with the "GEYRA" arranged seventy thousand and saved our first residence. Of course they had no issue with first home because I told you that 90% of them had information loans, anyway they were not in danger of being seized and auctioned. You know that, Minister. But you rightly said that the law of Mr. Tsakalotou has only become two thousand seven hundred eighty regulations, to Mr.4605. And that's right. SYRIZA insists on this law. We are pleased that the suspension of the Banking Code at the moment brings into force the PASOK Katselis Act, for which we have called for five times in the House to return with updated limits and for which, despite the fact that the government has chosen to send borrowers in the midst of a pandemic to collect paper from banks, taxes, funds with suffocating deadlines, despite the provision of fifteen thousand eight hundred applications, there have been eighteen thousand and fifty-four, that is, more than the ones you have been waiting for. But you're talking about the SYRIZA extrajudicial that failed. I agree, Minister, that SYRIZA's extrajudicial has failed with two thousand two hundred and sixty-eight regulations all in two and a half years. Tell me what the difference between the extrajudicial you brought to the law for the second chance with that of SYRIZA. None! It's just the same law. So you confess that you have brought a law that is not going to bring any substantial change. We have proposed a hundred and twenty instalments for debts in taxi and funds, with 30% 'haircut' when the regulation and, of course, the suspension of first home auctions and the reintroduction of Law 3869/2010 is observed. Suspension of auctions for actual vulnerable borrowers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u246	Say the bill, though. Say what you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u247	And because you like - you did it last time when we asked you the question - to compare your mandate and rule with that of SYRIZA, you know, the Greek people deserve better than you and SYRIZA. So don't stay in this comparison. So you say that the Greek economy is reliable and that is why, you say, we borrow at low interest rates. We did get by 0.8% three and a half billion in ten years. Cyprus was, of course, borrowed at a rate of 0.05% in five years. But you are not saying that the cost of borrowing remains low because the "PEPP" programme has exceeded the publishing activity of DPRK at a rate that does not occur in any other European country, once and for all, and the spreads have noted the greatest decline in the euro area. That's not what we say, it's not what the Change Movement says. It is said by DPRK's Director General, Mr. Chaconas, at the "Kathimerini Sunday", saying that this is entirely due to the European Central Bank and the "PEPP". Do you remember, Minister, why did you swing some paintings next time - what the spreads were after the pandemic started? I table the relevant table of the Bank of Greece in order to remember the change in the performance of the country's government bonds during the pandemic and how they were corrected, not because of your policy, but only after the intervention of the European Central Bank on 20 March. I will also testify to the difference in the performance of ten-year government bonds between Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy against Germany, in order not only to compare with SYRIZA, but also to compare other economies and countries in the euro area. Of course it does not interest you for that you prefer comparison with SYRIZA. That's clear. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Tell me what is the picture of the stock exchange today, Minister, where is the Greek economy going so well? The general indicator was 7.36% lost in January. He's usually upward. I can understand, because of pandemics, but February is a bad month, and I don't know what the evolution will be and what the interventions you're going to make are.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u248	Come on, Mr. Catherine, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u249	We are talking about an economy, Minister, which, before pandemic, was 56% of small businesses' business loans, totalling 100 billion non-performing loans are not only banks but also servicers. At the moment, in suspension of loans, 1/3 is about tourism and hospitality, one out of three has a great potential to blush, and you know that very well. You, instead of all of this, lay out a grid of protection to professionals and households, you really leave all this world north, without first-place protection, without suspension of auctions, at banks and the funds, which in a nice way do, asking for half the dose, as if they could get from the one who has a closed shop not half the dose, but even a tenth of a dose. Now, as far as AEGEAN is concerned, it is my last sentence, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u250	What's the last sentence, Mr. Catarini? You're talking twenty-two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u251	It'll be the last. Now, with regard to 'AEGEAN', our rapporteur, Mr Scandalides, said our reservations. I would also return to plenary the question - and I have said to the committee - whether the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy has understood that from the Development Bank's loans while applying for three airlines operating in Greece, only one was taken, while they met the criteria, all three being direct intervention or inaction in free competition. And I say that because you're theorists of free competition. So you must ensure that all air transport in the country is carried out, because all in some way, of course, they are doing a national duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u252	The next speaker is the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, who has the floor. It is a good request that the next speakers, the main Members of Parliament, are consistent with the time they deserve, because you know very well that they expect another thirty Members to speak. Already on the basis of this development, we will go around 9:00 a.m., if the timetables are not respected. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u253	Mr President, I will try to be consistent with the time that I am given. I want to start by making a statement. In view of the debate by both the committee and today in plenary with two words, I could call the placement of the anti-population parties as a whole: on the one hand, sad and on the other. And I explain: It is impressive in the sense that listening to the rapporteurs and to the parliamentary representatives and to the speakers of the opposition parties, it is like speaking in a neutral time, as if nothing is happening around us. There is criticism at all, with doubtful arguments, which are questioned by the arguments they are saying themselves. For example, I have heard from the SYRIZA's side that it is causing deficits and, at the same time, proposing an expansive fiscal policy. But the worst thing is - specialising in Census, because it has a greater institutional role and a greater responsibility, especially at this time, to put forward proposals - that I heard it simply making a statement. I have heard SYRIZA's rapporteur, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, in an ideological position. For the tampering and the debate we are having today about the bill, not a single word! It's like talking to another environment in which everything is normal, in a normal economy, in a normal labour market! But the other parties also speak out of place and time. In particular, KINAL, trying to show a picture of seriousness, comes and presents a series of proposals. I'll see you about Kinaal. Can he not come here and make a position, supposedly serious, with a storm of proposals and the question of the Minister of Finance "How much does it cost?" Don't say a word! It's all unspeakable! It makes a series of proposals, thousands of proposals for everything, from pensions to workers' subsidies, business subsidies and a repayable advance. How much does it cost? Cuveda! No talk! Nothing! All unspeakable! Somewhere we fly and no numbers, so to show that we say more than what we have to say in the House! In any case, this is a sad picture, because we are not in a normal situation. From the first moment, since March 2020, we have all said that we will be going to a very difficult environment. To use naval terms, cycladic terms, we'd go to unpapered sea. The unpapered sea is a sea that no one has ever passed and no one knows the compass to which it will put neither the target nor what forces it will find to cross the sea. So it was this unprecedented situation in the pandemic environment. But we must admit that the government has found the compass, and today there is a road map, because we have moved quickly, with reflexes, with sensitivity, because we have known the main objectives that we have set ourselves to keep society up and also the workers and the jobs. And today, by making the 2020 report, we see that this intervention is positive at all levels, Mr Scandalidis. I know you're a serious man and I'm watching you and I'm watching your locations. We're talking about all levels. In the health sector, no one said it was perfect or that we made it perfect. But there has been one government priority since the beginning. The Prime Minister, the Government, the MPs, has all set us a compass, and we have as top priority the health care of people, with errors and deficits and with pathogens. Today by making the census, we see that Greece has the best picture at European level. It's a reality. You can't reverse this reality. Yesterday, in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, Mr Chiodras, who made a meticulous presentation with drawings, showed the comparative picture in our country, as well as in the other countries of Europe. We're on a comparatively better level. No one can question it. At the economic level within the framework of our country's financial capabilities - because I also heard Mrs Ahtsioglou say that we repeat the same - yes, in Greece, we set a compass and put tools that were confirmed for their correctness. The repayable advance stimulated all companies and kept them upright. Today, the entire market and the social partners as a whole, including GFCM, GFCM, BSE, HSY, all admit that the repayable advance was the best tool used in the pandemic to support business. Also, with regard to the issue of the labour market and the workers, we were paying the worker with a certain amount of money to keep the jobs. These two central tools - I am not going to add the balances concerning the 'GEYRA' programme, the insurance contribution payment programme for all workers and a number of additional tools that we have used - have been confirmed by the European Commission itself and by all international organisations. They said that there in Greece, with the tools they have used, with the policies they have implemented in this unprecedented, unprecedented environment, they have succeeded. And they confirm it and the figures which are now budgetaryly, financially and on the labour market are coming to measure and show that we have actually been successful. Of course, we are talking about'success' in an environment that is difficult, but we have had positive results and a positive balance. For example, our country's low lending comes to reward our economy as a reliable economy. In other words, in the pandemic, in a generally weak economic country, with its own characteristics, which was hit more by tourism, as tourism participates in the country's GDP and affected much more negatively than the other countries, the financial results of Greece show confidence with the low interest rates of lenders who come to lend and trust Greece. That's right, Mr. Chakalote! That's the reality! The second element concerns the labour market. Didn't we keep the jobs? We did not make a single condition, that in order to get these tools in and to get funding for business, we should definitely keep jobs and give payments through the 'ERGAN' and the suspension of contracts of employment and job maintenance. And here, the results, which - let me say - are not rewarding in the sense that we are happy. But, look, unemployment was 17.3% in 2019 and will close to around 17% - and below 17% - in 2020. The bet, of course, is that the crucial point is when we dismantle the economy, how the labour market works with unemployment and employment issues. But that is where the state is to intervene and support businesses so that we do not lose jobs. So, in both critical areas, support for business and job support, yes, we have taken the right measures. We've been confirmed. And the road map and criticism from the SYRIZA side is not correct. You confirm and follow the same compass and program if your tools are successful. To the question now what we have done in this period, there is no one who has what to say first. In 2019, when this government started - because the agenda here in the debate was opened on all matter - I must tell you that we started with a reformist momentum, with the first force in the tax reform. We have reduced business tax from 28% to 24%, reduced dividend tax, reduced ENPIA, made dozens of tax interventions. Mr. Besiropoulos is here. He said so and he will say again what interventions were made in the tax sector, until the pandemic hit and we were faced with this unprecedented situation. In the other crucial part, the insurance, which had undermined the market itself, the scientists and the entire Greek society, workers and pensioners, brought an insurance reform to Law 4670/2020. We have maintained what was good since 2010 and has been designated and supported here in the House, and today we have an insurance policy that fortunately came just before the pandemic and which is an insurance measure measured by a proportionate study by 2070. Yes, there is indeed a lack of insurance income. It's perfectly normal. However, this exceptional period and 2020 and 2021, insurance contributions are covered by the State budget. So, Mr Alexiadis, we have an insurance policy that finally released one and a half million farmers, free professionals, scientists - it was the so-called'medium-class' that a period before you admitted as a party, that you beat - from this unacceptable income connection and tax them in an insurance way. Today we now have the so-called 'free accusations' that everyone chooses what they want at the beginning of each year and in between every six months. At the same time, in this environment, I will tell you some things that are worthwhile. It's from the previous portfolio I had, but now I'm given the opportunity to report it. I will tell you, for example, that in 2020 we paid a million fifty-one thousand pensioners with EUR 1.4 billion retrospectively, which we owed them and had to give, because it was a decision of the Supreme Court, but the law also dictated it. We paid two hundred and fifty thousand pensioners for their new supplementary pension, under the insurance law, of EUR 300 million. We paid to a hundred and fifteen thousand pensioners the debts of May 2019 that you hadn't paid, as well as eighty thousand widow’s pension cases, from 50% to 70%. We took it on us, and we acted. And within this difficult period we naturally also created the digital pension "ATLAS", which is a reality and is the only one that can answer the question of outstanding pensions. Without the digital pension "ATLAS" any government, whatever its tools, will not be able to solve the problem of outstanding pensions unless you do not address the problem that fills the tank of outstanding pensions. And on this occasion I can tell you that this digital pension 'ATLAS', which already works for widow's pensions and farmers' pensions, in one month from now it will have to be applied for all health workers in the country - in one second the country's health care workers, pharmacists, veterinary surgeons, doctors, pharmacists, will receive their pensions - as well as disability pensions. That is the second step. These steps are completed at the end of 2021. At the same time, we brought more tools that are important to support the labour market. Hundreds of thousands of jobs through the reduction of insurance contributions from a special programme made at the Ministry of Labour. SYRIZA didn't vote for it. The programme concerned the abolition of the ENPIA in the remote islands. SYRIZA didn't vote for it. The programme concerned the reduction of insurance contributions as a whole. Note one of the biggest problems the Greek economy had, which affected both the labour market and the businesses, was the so-called 'wage cost', which was a ganger. This Government and this New Democrat party have all reduced the insurance contributions from 2012 until now ten units, 10 whole units. And the last time we have been a government, namely the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, 3.9 units, which have already worked, and two million workers in their pocket have actually seen the money and two hundred and sixty-five thousand companies have also seen their money grow. That's the reality. And that is not what SYRIZA voted for, namely the increase in the income of workers. That's a reality. Overall, according to the figures from the Ministry of Finance 24 billion euros, 15% of GDP, we gave in 2020 as a government to support the economy, business and the labour market, and we did not reduce - look out! - in the social state, not 1 euro, the benefits. The minimum guaranteed income that supports the social state and comes to give four hundred thousand families the support through the electronic protection net not only did we not reduce it, but in December, under the guidelines of the Prime Minister of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we gave another additional dose of minimum guaranteed income. The A21, i.e. the allowances, EUR 1,980 billion in particular, to support their families and children, has not been reduced by one euro. In other words, we also supported the social state and the labour market and will continue to do so to the end. Today's bill, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, raises some very simple questions. It is another - it is not the only bill from the Ministry of Finance, which comes to add to the support of the economy and the labour market, because if you support entrepreneurship, you also support jobs. The question is very simple and I am addressing SYRIZA in particular, because KINAL has taken its place and in its honor, well done, will the bill be passed: Gentlemen of SYRIZA, will you vote to abolish the rental 100% for the months of January and February? You haven't answered. Soon after the meeting is over and you are still in 'approximate', 'we'll see if we get any answers'. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, will you vote for the grant of 80% of the rent to natural persons, to the so-called "leasers"? Yes or no? Gentlemen of SYRIZA and the other parties, will you vote 60% for the hirer to receive a grant if he is a legal person? Will you vote for the extension and adjustment of the payment of securities, cheques, foreign exchange and collection stamps which is coming to facilitate this difficult period of business? Will you vote for the support of AEGEAN, the air carrier for which I hear a thousand two excuses? These are questions you have not answered. You ought to do so, however, because the meeting is ending and if you are publicly judged by questions of great importance from the world, because of unreliability, it is precisely because you have no positions, you have no proposals. And especially at this critical period of national conflict and you should support the initiatives, but if you object to saying your own proposals costly, unfortunately, for you and fortunately for the Greek people that this government exists, you are not saying anything, but you are making micro-group opposition to the so-called'micropartial interest', which will constantly shrink you further and more. We militant, compassed by the good of Greek society, the good of Greek citizens, workers, the unemployed will continue to fight until we get the country out of the pandemic and we will support every Greek citizen in need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u254	The next speaker is the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos. [[Noise in the Chamber]] And then Mr. Karathanasopoulos, I would like to inform you, because I hear some voices in the Chamber, that we will continue with the list of speakers, because it is very far behind. You know very well that six or seven Members have spoken. As I have said before, thirty Members are missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u256	To answer some issues that have been raised. All right, Minister. [[Noise in the Chamber]] It's all going to happen. Don't shout. You don't have to. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. On the one hand, we have the criminal management of the pandemic by the government. The public health system has remained intact, even at these times. This is because of the logic of health trade, a logic that all governments have served over time. They try to deal with the huge, very large gaps and shortcomings with ball movements. They are trying to close a hole and open others. So primary health care remains virtually nonexistent and public hospitals have become hospitals of a disease. Instead of upgrading them with the recruitment of hospital and medical staff with permanent work, instead of opening up hospital units that closed down in previous years, such as hospitals of infectious diseases or the Thorakos Hospital in Patras, which were closed by the New Democracy and the PASOK and SYRIZA - it is not accidental - they maintain these unacceptable conditions in hospitals. They transformed the protocols, adapted them to the needs of the businesses, so that the large business groups turned themselves into over-transmissions, aggregation in public transport well keeps them in place by turning them into corresponding outbreaks, and the entire effort made by the government is to place its hopes on the vaccine instead of the vaccine to shield the public health system as much as possible. And, of course, the picture that has been formed in our country, but also at a pan-European level, highlights the very great deadlocks. We say clearly that our country must have access to and directly supply all the vaccines that are available internationally. But we don't put the perfect one there. At the same time, we say that the public health system needs to be upgraded and shielded. What we have been seeing lately is precisely the definition of the system rot, the competition between large multinational pharmaceutical companies and the European Union on the other hand about how the profits of the large industrial industries will be even better shielded. And from this point of view, it is clear that whatever measure you take for the patent, whether you buy it or keep it, the substance remains the same. It doesn't really change anything. Because the patent under individual capitalist property conditions is another tool in the hands of the multinationals to convert to goods - it is a commodity, to turn it even more into merchandise - the vaccine, the medicine and, of course, to be used in the interests of strengthening their profitability and to the detriment of the people's needs, by increasing even more the class discrimination of who can access the vaccine and who cannot have access to it. Of course, Greece is not an exception, Minister. Corresponding measures for the management of the pandemic are carried out in the rest of the European Union and we see the results. Thousands of dead, practically collapsed health systems and the more developed capitalist economies. The same logic is used by the government in crisis management issues. After all, this has brought to awkwardness the other parties and SYRIZA and the Change Movement, that the New Democracy Government is doing everything in our country. It is for this very reason that their criticism is either epidermal at best or parade to the government, pushing the government to give even more to the business groups. That is because they start from the same starting point, that it is a crisis of economics, a pandemic, and not a crisis of the capitalist system and that we are all on the same boat. In fact, in the same boat is the unemployed, is this worker who has been suspended from the employment contract with the capitalist? They're on the same boat and both need to be strengthened at the same time? Is the self-employed on the same boat, who sees his debt growing by geometric progress, and the stockholder, who sees his profits to take off? No, of course not. It's not on the same boat. We say clearly that those who claim that we are on the same boat are trying to cover up the class character of their policies. So what do they want on the substance? Strengthen and save business groups, and at the same time, everything that is left behind by this pie, support for business groups, give the people's strata, workers, through a form of subsidy, relief effectively from the rapid deterioration of their position, a redistribution of the essence of poverty and, at the same time, professionals, self-employed, small and medium-sized farms, a suspension of their debts. All this will then come as an avalanche in the day, season and season, as they call it, of returning to normality and we will have hundreds of thousands of padlocks. The padlocks have already begun and appear in the catering industry, despite all the assurances the Minister has made and from the Step, that they are from the industries that have been supported. If you turn a walk in the center of Athens, as well as the large urban centers, you will see the new enclosures in the catering area. In this respect, therefore, the proposal for a law tabled by the JRC contradicts this logic. So what do we say? That measures must be taken to improve the position of the professional, the self-employed, the small trader and the craftsman. Because it is of its own importance what he told us yesterday, when we had the conference with the Panhellenic Focus Federation, the president of Corfu's cafeteria. He said: "Before I entered the crisis and shut down the shop, I had 60,000 euros of debts. When I get out of this, how much will my debt have reached? Am I going to stay on the same level? No, I'm not staying on the same level. They will be much more, because they are running debts and now, whether they are suspended or I have to deal with them the next day." From this point of view, it is clear that this support for business groups is also combined with the completion of a number of anti-dumping measures. After all, the European Development and Resilience Fund has specific specifications. Firstly, with regard to the eligibility of projects and financing, secondly, that a series of reforms need to be launched at the same time in the further liberalisation of the labour market, so to cheaper and more consumable workers and thirdly, very strong supervision of disbursement, if anti-Fraudian reforms are not implemented. So it is given the nature of funding and who will benefit from it: the big business groups and, at the end, the one who will be called upon to pay the bill will be the people, through the increase in taxation and the new state debt. Because the deficits in government debt will be converted. Because Mr Tsakalotos may have claimed that the manuals of the political economy say that, when there is great unemployment, deficits are not necessarily converted into debt, but these are the notes to the manuals that are far from reality. The Greek reality before the memorials has confirmed this. So, basically, that was also what he did when he was Minister. What's that? Ensuring the bloody primary surpluses for sixty years, so that the debt can be sustainable. All the rest are summer night dreams! Also the debate that is taking place, for example, in the forms of support for AEGEAN, which is in the debate today, whether it is through the warrants, as the government says, whether through the stock market or through various other forms of participation in the AEGEAN board on the part of the State. Scandalides, the rapporteur of the Change Movement, spoke of a more progressive measure to support "AEGEAN" that ensures the public interest. But all these suggestions that either KINAL or SYRIZA or Mera25 have before them. We have seen everything on the ground. Have you forgotten about the infamous Enterprise Reconstruction Agency? What was the result? He held overcompensated businesses. Some of these illusions and sold them cheaply to individuals and at the same time, all the others - and there are too many of them - from "PIRAIKI PATRAIKI" to anything else you can imagine what happened? The result was to stack the debts that these companies had. That's how the Enterprise Reconstruction Agency worked. A corresponding result was also the recapitalisation of the banks. And this form of state support, wasn't it? What was the result? To nullify, when SYRIZA was in the government, the State's participation in the bank's share capital in the third recapitalisation that it made through the Financial Stability Fund into its holdings. Thus, it is evident that the State is not neutral, that it does not operate to ensure the public interest. The State defends the class interest of business groups in one form or another. It therefore socialises the debts of business groups to ensure the privatisation of their profits. Always in our country, and elsewhere, it worked. So it buys very expensive, highly charged businesses, pays them expensively, and when it purifies them, those that it purifys, it sells them very cheaply. It does so, for example, with contract policy, and does so with procurement policy. Because it technically increases the average profit rate, ensuring increased profitability in the business groups. So any alternative proposals have been heard here by SYRIZA and by Mera25 at best are utopian, not to say that they are proposals which are trying to capture popular discontent in the management of the system. Because Mr Tsakalotos may have said that everything is changing, but I will remind him of one verse from a song: "All around is changing and all the same remains." That's the reality. Because the attitudes of the capitalist system don't change. It does not change, for example, the barbaricity of the capitalist system. The anarchy does not change in the economy and in the production of the capitalist system, which is responsible for the emergence of the capitalist crises. It does not change the concentration of economic activity in less and less hands, it is, on the contrary, being strengthened. It does not change the anisometry, it is even stronger. It does not change the exacerbation of social inequalities by accumulation of wealth in less and less hands and poverty in more and more. These are the iron economic laws of the capitalist system, which operate independently of the will of man and goodwill, because on the basis of these economic laws it is the individual property, the individual capitalist ownership of the means of production. So capitalism can only become human when the sun comes out of the West. There's no other way. How many thinkers and scholars have tried to make capitalism human? What's the result? What we're experiencing today. From this point of view we say that capitalist relations with the means of production must be broken in order to combat the economic laws of the capitalist system, in order to break the urban state, which is a tool for enforcing the power of the few to the detriment of the many, the bourgeoisie to the detriment of workers and the rest of the populace. Because the answer to today is socialism and cannot be any other proposal to manage the capitalist system, which leads to ever greater deadlocks, to exacerbate the problems of the wide folk and youth. So who will determine the next day is a matter of correlation of powers. Because if the connection remains as it is, it is evident that the next day will find the wide-popular strata with a deepening of the problems of the people's family even more, focusing on economic activity in increasingly fewer hands and a growth of anemic character, which will prepare for the emergence of the new capitalist crisis. This is the economic cycle of the capitalist system and he doesn't change. The crises, that is, are and will remain a child of this system. So the organization of the popular struggle, the establishment of a social alliance of the working class and the rest of the people's strata, self-employed professionals and poor medium-sized farms must be organized with even greater determination against their common enemy. The common objective is to dismantle monopolies, that is the common enemy of the people. Against it they must turn their arrows and, of course, on the policies of the European Union and the government in order to prevent their position being worsened, to recover some partial losses which they have had in this period, but at the same time to shape the conditions for the radical overthrow of the particular system that gives rise to poverty, unemployment, impoverishment and war. Thank you very much, Mr President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u259	Mr President, can I have the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u260	Before moving on to the list of speakers, the Minister has the floor for a number of points on what has been said. But, Minister, please keep the two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u261	Thank you very much, Mr President. I need two minutes, I'll call it codified. Societies require actions, they require realism, they require responsibility, they require respect and moderation. You will allow me to tell you from the positions of the parliamentary representatives that have proved to be the deadlocks of the opposition and not of the government. When no one has any arguments, he generalizes and theorizes. Without suggesting something specific, he speaks for twenty minutes in general and indefinitely with flammable and ideological nebulas, with a wholehearted lack of thought on education, health, foreign policy, defence, international relations, vaccines, but not on the subject. As to whether there is a clear position on the position of the Greek Government and the Ministry of Finance in the institutions abroad, you will allow me to tell you that I am a fomenter of those who claim to be worthy of what others say about you and not what you say about yourself. I therefore invite you to refer to the Eurogroup leader's interview last Saturday that says what the Greek Government and the Ministry of Finance have done at Eurogroup, contrary to periods of creative ambiguity in the past. With regard to the reference to the IMF Parliamentary Representative, I would ask that he be very careful and very precise about what we have said. What does the statement say? "The Ministry of Finance under the loan and management programme has begun the process of a new early repayment." Mr President, it is understandable that you do not know this, but this is a time-consuming process. The ESS must make a request, it must go to the EWG, it must go to the Eurogroup. There's a time-consuming process. These cover the period 2021 and 2022, the early repayment, which we will anyway pay for in 2021. The reasons we do so are purely to improve the sustainability of public debt. And the communication then concludes that "we continue to gradually return to normality with policies that will help society, demonstrating social solidarity and leading the country to a continuous upgrading of its prestige". That's for one thing. You've taken many measures here, something billions. Whenever I call you to say a number, you avoid him. What do you think? I know what you're doing. You will allow me to tell you that I am more than you have been. You drop all the measures, you put them in the Minutes, and you say that at some point the government will do them in the future, so you will say: 'If I had said so in time'. And when I tell you to say a number, you don't tell him. What do you think? You're saying the measures are four billion dollars for the returnee. Is it 4 billion? Didn't you suggest an extension of VAT?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u262	That's what we're suggesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u263	In addition to what?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u264	From what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u265	I would ask that there be no dialogue. Please shorten up, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u266	At the VAT, didn't you say an extension here in your speech? Didn't you say the last time about farmers? You said more about rents, didn't you? For debt haircuts, didn't you say? And I heard your President when he answered a question. For farmers, didn't you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u267	Did I say that? Today I didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u268	Oh, you didn't say today. You said last week, okay. Avoid all opposition parties to say a number, all of the measures. You're amplifying all the measures. The government will come because it has a plan, some of them to implement it, because it is its choice, it has it in the budget planning of 7.5 billion, and you will come here to the House to say "I had told you", but with foreign libraries. So know and be very careful. You spoke about 'GREAT I', 'GREAT II', which did not exist in the public debate. Government choices are to help the citizens. We are helping households and we are going to help businesses that we have not discussed at all in the past and we will be able to do so as much as possible. Last point is the cost of borrowing. You were invited to an interview with Mr Chacona in Kathimerini. No interviews by Mr Chacona at 'Kathimerini'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u269	A statement Sunday is on Sunday.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u270	Look out, I was very clear. You said: 'An interview'. He doesn't have a statement, I got it here. As he recently pointed out at a conference, Greece, apart from introductorys, adds a point that is a passage from his speech. So it was neither a statement why it was from a conference nor an interview, as you falsely said from the Step of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u271	It was a reversal of speech!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u272	And because I know Mr Chacona very well, I also know his views because every day we are together to try to create a cash room to carry out expansive budgetary policies. But you, who read it all, did not read the next paragraph in the article. Will you read it or will I? "According to analysts economists, the role of the ECB is indeed catalytic in this crisis, but a significant part of the success of maintaining high cash reserves is due to the management of the crisis by the Greek Government." Why did you hide it? It's the next sentence. So be precise. Here's the painting. I've given him to you several times. He doesn't have the last paragraph. On SYRIZA we borrowed 3.9% of the ten-year bond in March 2019. In October 2019, we borrowed ten years with 1.5. There was no coronary. I do not think you can tell us that this is due to the European Central Bank. 3.9% did it in six months, this government. The European Central Bank does come in and helps all countries and Greece significantly. In September we borrowed 1.19%. We are now continuing to have the European Central Bank and we have borrowed 0.8%. And in June and September and now the European Central Bank is here. Why is the cost of borrowing reduced? Because the government implements and implements a serious, coherent, expansionary fiscal policy in the context of the country's capabilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u273	We continue the list of speakers with Mr Bukkoro from New Democracy. It is a good request, I say it now because the list has been reintroduced, to keep the seven-minute strict.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u274	Yes, of course, Mr President. It may not need the seven-minute one. Because I have heard a number of arguments quite rightly, particularly from Mr Karathanasopoulos earlier, that the management of the case reminds us of some historical examples that it is important to avoid, such as the Agency for the Reconstruction of Enterprises, such as the third and inappropriate recapitalisation of the Greek banks, we are indeed in agreement. We stress, however, that these were not choices or designs of our own party. Indeed, at this point in time, there is no Statement of Debt and Privatization of Profits, because it is another perception of this fact, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, of the leadership of the Ministry of Finance at this time. We support the economy to stand on its feet and to go to development right after the pandemic. It's no different. If "health" this party is with some successful demilitarizations, which have worked prosthetics in the economy. Of course, the third recapitalisation of the banks cost the Greek people some billions and the Enterprise Reconstruction Agency did not leave a positive mark. These are historically proven. But since we do not rewrite the story in this place, let us see what is happening now, because in Parliament, the government that has the initiative to legislate and your opposition must criticise, if possible fertile and, of course, certainly with arguments, so that we can be productive and benefit the Greek people in this Chamber. And this bill, in my view, proves that the government, forced by realities and the consequences of the pandemic, is in constant vigilance. She's always taking the initiative. On the other hand, the Civic Opposition is in a partial embarrassment, let me say. As far as pandemic is concerned, the Government takes stricter measures to limit the spread of the virus, gray and critical of the Opposition. It relaxes the measures, gray and critical again. A position clearly expressed and containing a proposal to tackle this unprecedented crisis has not been heard. The same goes for financial measures. The government promotes the loans, 'they are taken by those who do not need'. It promotes the repayable advance which is mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises and has been classified as a very successful tool, 'it is not enough'. It protects jobs. The former Minister of Labour has told you, Mr. Brutsi. These are the numbers from ELSTAT. These are the numbers, at 2019 levels and a little below it moved in 2020, which means that the work protection measures worked. These measures cannot continue. Did the government say there are money trees? Did you hear Mr. Stavoura say there are money trees? The country is being loaned to implement these intervention policies that this time requires and is doing so wisely and consistently. It is lending at low interest rates, in particular - in my view - because it has built this necessary capital of the economy called'reliability'. He's built credibility. It is borrowed at low interest rates and at the same time improves the public debt profile with repayments to the International Monetary Fund. And with all this restructuring, it succeeds at the same time - these are very difficult things, ladies and gentlemen - to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. It is not as simple as it seems, perhaps with some exchange of arguments and anti-business in this Chamber. It is complex and multifactorial and constantly changing the problem. That is why the Ministry of Finance has reached the sixth advance from the start. No one wins from this pandemic. Neither the public funds win, neither the businesses nor the workers. The goal is one and only: We must quickly leave the pandemic, limit damage and move to a development field as soon as possible. Has anyone told you that low-priced loans will not be repaid? However, it is another thing to return to the burdensome interest rates of other times and to the interest rates currently achieved by the government and the improvement of the public debt profile. It's different anyway. It is not good to increase the debt, but then you yourself will say 'you did not give the workers, you did not give the small and medium-sized enterprises, you did not give the public health system anything'. Moderate uncertainty and the other constant vigilance. These are the descriptions in my humble view that belong to the government and to the opposition. I will say about 'AEGEAN'. Why these reactions? "AEGEAN" is an airline which highly and relatively replaced our national air carrier, the one that some policies led him to the rocks and the Greek people came to pay 1 million euros a day for the debts of the "Olympic". A New Democracy government then came back to take this noose out of the Greek people. What we fund and support today, regardless of whether it will be done with shares and bonuses, etc.Huh? An accidental gasoline company or a company that just before the pandemic announced an investment plan to modernise and increase the fleet of EUR 5 billion, in a time dead, indifferent to the pandemic? How do you present it like that, that we are strengthening an accidental operation? Don't we want to have a national air carrier? Does this not favour Greek tourism, development, the economy? Should we leave him in his luck? Do we have many national air carriers? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I could say a lot about the census which, Mr Minister, you are doing very well with these measures. But I need two more minutes, Mr President. The property owners, the leasers are asking for a timeline for when these benefits - which is rightly included in your bill - will be paid, so that they will not be in the uncertainty. You're doing very well for the rents of February and January. The measure is beneficial. For the record bearers, perhaps we should have a few more measures. You are suspending the tax obligations, but some people, particularly in areas affected by Janus, also need the capital corresponding to the debt instruments that are cut and we should perhaps find a way to get the capital, because one who rents his field every year, on the one hand, cuts up a reliable debt document, because this check is paid every year if it is from renting a property, on the other hand it cannot be the only source of his income. The census will be the most useful. The only thing I wish, Mr President, is to prove to be a useful tool for the 2021 census for the preparation of the relevant policies and, above all, for addressing the demographic which is the number one problem in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u275	Although you said you wouldn't exhaust the seven-minute, you exceeded it. The next speaker is Mr Stamenitis Dionysius from New Democracy. I propose to the House this: After Mr Stamenitis, Mr Arahovitis and Mr Logiadis, from Mr Papadimitriou, that we should reduce the time to six minutes and with a tolerance of seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u276	No, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u277	Listen to me. By strictly following the seven minute without counting the waiting time until the Step is ready...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u278	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u279	I have to give a thought to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u280	But, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u281	Sit down, you don't have the floor. Let me finish. You don't have the floor. Please, Mr. Apostle, sit down. I therefore propose this reduction with the aim at least of speakers speaking for seven minutes to reach 21.00, but without counting secondary or interventions by parliamentarians, special speakers, rapporteurs and also the Minister. There's gonna be an objective problem. How can we say it? One of the many will be the Bureau, or the President-in-Office. There will be no Bureau. This isn't the first time that this is happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u282	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u283	Please. Please. Our aim is to catch your time. So, you don't understand that? I'm not in dialogue. If you accept it, fine. If you don't accept it, we'll continue to see. What else can I tell you? It is obviously not accepted by unanimity. Mr. Stamenitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u284	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the emergence of the unprecedented health crisis which has left no country in the world unaffected, the Greek Government has chosen organised, prudent, targeted and effective support for society. We have said that our main concern was and remains to guarantee public health. In view of this basic choice from the start, difficult decisions were taken which had a direct negative impact on the country's economic activity. To resolve this difficult equation that is the result of the need to ensure public health on the one hand and to contain the financial consequences of the measures necessary to deal with pandemic on the other hand, it has been studied, designed, organised, implemented and implemented an integrated two-way plan: health safety, financial assistance and social support. The draft law currently being voted on by the Ministry of Finance is another addition to all the measures to support society, workers, businesses, households and every Greek citizen affected by the consequences of the pandemic. Before I go to the important and substantial, in my view, interventions which the Treasury institutionalised by this draft law will soon enter into the first part of the draft law on what it lays down for the 2021 census by ELSTAT. The fact is that the demographic problem is one of the greatest challenges not only for our country but for the whole of Europe. Since Greece has been starting to see its population falling for years, population recording, quality characteristics, as well as the recording of our economic wealth is an opportunity with new and up-to-date data to develop policies in at least a decade so that we can have substantial results in the treatment of demographics. We must say that the current government is constantly applying a set of family support measures and a reduction in burdens. At the same time it adopts policies for the repatriation of Greeks who are in their productive age and who have left our country in order to seek a better tomorrow. At the same time, the new data to be produced are a useful guide and necessary tools to design policies aimed at highlighting the primary agricultural and livestock sectors and decisions to take measures to protect the environment and economic development of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the second part of the draft law under discussion which introduces provisions that will serve as additional support for existing support and support measures for the business world and for the people of the primary sector. Arrangements with a positive figure, with tangible and measurable results, implementing the announcements for the continued effort to counteract the adverse effects of the health crisis. These are measures, as the New Democracy rapporteur has rightly pointed out at committee meetings, which are coming to alleviate the economic consequences of the country's businesses in recent months. I think there is no doubt that the 100% exemption measure of the obligation to pay the rent for firms affected for the months of January and February is a measure that offers real breath to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I believe that it will be difficult to disagree with the extension of protection to renters through the arrangements for the payment by the state of 80% of the agreed monthly lease for natural persons and 60% for legal persons, as compensation for these months. Compensation that is not retained or taxed and thus restores the loss to 100%. In addition, the Ministry of Finance regulates an issue that employs thousands of our fellow citizens active in the market, and that is the provision of facilities for the payment of securities. In this draft law, we also have important regulations relating to agricultural incomes. Here too, Minister, I would like to say that as a Member of Parliament from a basically rural point of view, I can assure you that the arrangements for the time for obtaining income from agricultural enterprises and subsidies and their exemption from a special solidarity levy for the tax year 2021, which go back to tax year 2020, but also the arrangements for making statements of change to the transfer from the special scheme to the normal scheme are measures that really facilitate producers and move in the right direction. I conclude by making my position on the contents of the bill with the regulation of Article 29 on the coverage of fixed business expenses. As mentioned in this article, the terms, conditions and criteria will be seen in a Ministerial Decision. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth saying that the Ministry of Finance and the Greek Government do not stop adding measures to keep the companies up to date from these unprecedented situations that we have been experiencing in recent months. Here, Minister, let me point out that it is necessary to see perhaps some companies that have received a smaller share of the aid so far and obviously to restore any failures. Hotel businesses of thermal and winter tourism in Loutraki Almopia or Agios Athanasios, Pellas, are such an example. I think you will consider this matter. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it turns out that the Government and the Ministry of Finance have been working in recent months with a major concern to meet the changing needs of the health crisis. At the same time, we remain committed to the implementation of the reform plan until the end of the pandemic so that this will be the beginning of the rapid and dynamic recovery of the economy that will allow us to design Greece of the future. The vote in favour of the draft law we are debating today is a part of the great effort that has been taking place in recent months, but also a weapon to address tomorrow's challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr. Stamenitis, and the economy in time. The next speaker is Stavros Arachovitis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the measures taken so far by the pandemic government are contradictory. Shops such as computer shops and telecommunications are open for service and for payment of bills but closed for sale. Open up the supermarkets and banks, but not the shops. The focus, the tourism, the culture that is the major victims, are also facing the ministers of your government who are ironing them these hours and asking for the keys to their stores. In unemployment by thousands, workers from various specialties and related professions and activities, including guides, sounders, carers, who are invisible. The Minister said about new businesses that opened in 2020. But the reality is falsifying you. In 2020, eight hundred forty-four thousand fewer recruitments were made than in 2019, while five hundred and seventy-three thousand unemployed were added to the OAED register. Your primary deficit has escaped over 18 billion euros. Public debt reaches 370 billion euros, 228% of GDP, at levels of the first memoranda. In health the situation is tragic along with human losses. One after the other regions becomes'red'. Sparta, my area, from covid to free until first, has been in hard lockdown regime for a month. And that's why? For with double books, which have proved to be yours, the real situation has not been present, so that the population has not been prepared and the warnings have not been taken into account in good time. The consequences for the local economy, for all regions, are devastating. And you're telling us about proposals? About whether we made proposals as Opposition? We put forward proposals and refuse. We have proposed and denied Alexis Tsipras' proposal to buy the vaccine patent from the European Union. It was a proposal that you refused, but the Council adopted. We have also proposed that you have refused to prescribe the tests at small cost for the insurance funds so that you can have a picture of what is happening with the dissemination of the pandemic and you have preferred to lose more than doubled revenue and resources for the funds due to the additional measures, packages and unemployment. We have proposed and denied our proposal for regulation by deleting part of the private debt created in the health crisis and leading the market to the death of the merchant. We also propose that you refuse our proposals, as they were tabled in an integrated programme already since the first wave of the pandemic in "We are standing", which was costly and described measures and actions. Make a transfer of obligations to the future, put the market in debt and believe that if there is one, in 2021 everything will be solved by magic. But you are not actually making politics, you are communicating in the belief that you are covering up your tragic flaws and mistakes. It was only last week that the last communal account of the compensations of farmers affected in Thessaly by Janos came to light. For farmers, fishermen, farmers, farmers, measures are below the real losses, and we have made it quite clear to you. You lowered the controls on the market, and the rumours for uncontrolled Greekizations and imports, which push the producer's prices down. You will have heard the complaints, and we have raised them several times with questions about parliamentary control for both honey and fruit and vegetables. The closure of the focus, Minister, the collapse of tourism, but also the difficulties in exporting, have led to most agricultural products in a crisis of both disposal and price. Even oranges, which in the first wave seemed to be holding, have now collapsed. The price of cotton, another characteristic, is almost half of the stock market. We in 2018 and 2019 provided exceptional financial aid in sums of more than 90 million in the form of de minimis without pandemic conditions, but targeted at products and producers that were really problematic. You now, with the measures you have taken, have left one out of two of the oilseed producers, in measure 21, one out of ten farmers, and nine out of ten fishermen have left the set-aside programme. In the case of the aid for olive oil, in measure 21 of the Rural Development Programme, Article 146 of the Recent Law No 4764/2000 has not even been applied, which provides that the aid is inextricable and incompatible with the hands of the public and third parties. We have asked you here, but have you not answered, why should producers themselves initiate the process of releasing their accounts? With regard to the restructuring of vineyards, I would like to say that this is not a subsidy, it is an investment, so it cannot be counted at 5,000 for the change from the special VAT system to the normal VAT system. But you have also created a second problem with the strengthening of olive cultivation, which here shows the inconsistency between the ministries and the Government of the State of Staff, which is the delay. The invitation, the filing of applications, the evaluation and the disbursement were all made in 2020. However, OPEKEPE charges it in 2019 and you ask farmers to make an amendment to the previous financial year, with what that means. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With regard to the provision you have brought, because my time is coming to an end, I would like to say that the basic problem created by the deferred payments of subsidies from previous years and the obligation to transfer from the specialist to the normal scheme is not solved. Fortunately, by the arrangements you have brought today, you do not charge fines. For what? For the supremacy of the administration rather than the commander.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u287	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u288	I shall conclude, Mr President. The government is working on pandemic to hide and bring anything undemocratic, hideous and anti-linguistic. But then, if you think the bans, authoritarianism, police rule and yellowism will save you from the anger of the people. All of this is more annoying to the thinking democratic citizens and you will soon be surprised by society's response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u289	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Georgios Logiadis from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, because today there has been a lot of hearing here about Yiannis Varoufakis and in 2015, I would like to see him as Mera25 and as a new MEP, as the Prime Minister had announced, to come to Parliament's file of bankruptcy. Also, because the low interest rates have been mentioned, I would like to say that entrepreneurs are currently, at all events, paying 5.5% - 6% interest rate, which is too heavy. On this subject, therefore, the current draft law of the Ministry of Finance. The first part, in Articles 1 to 25, concerns the census of buildings, populations, housing and farming. Of course, we do not question the importance and necessity of the general censuses. But we have serious doubts about the correctness and integrity of data collection through the inventory method. It is no coincidence that many countries, because of the coronary, suspended the censuses, such as Romania, while Germany announced that they may not complete the process. I should also like to mention the issue of software and platforms. Who controls the software in today's digital age? Who do the platforms belong to? It is a matter of key importance, as Yanis Varoufakis pointed out. Unfortunately, the President of ELSTAT has said - and I am sorry to say this - that, unlike other countries which have long traditions in quality administrative registers, particularly in interlinked registers - and I will then speak about the interconnected registers - our country is not yet ready to meet its statistical information needs of this size and in this way. And he continues: "The census will cost 63m euros and the Rules will say that the results will be announced after twenty-seven months, i.e. two and a half years. We see that there are great discrepancies between ELSTAT and OAED, as Yanis Varoufakis pointed out, in the area of unemployment, as well as there are great differences in tourism, which is the country's heavy industry, between the data provided by ELSTAT and the Bank of Greece and find a way out! On the issue of the inventory of livestock and agriculture, data on fraud in the aid system has recently been published under the responsibility of the IACS, the integrated administration and control system for the allocation of subsidies in the agricultural sector, namely how many pastures we have declared, how many olive trees, how many lambs we have. We all know about the frescoes. Former OPEKEPE President, Professor Gregory Varras, sent the matter to the prosecutor and you sent the governor to his house. Let us also mention the falsified figures of the 'Greek Statistics' on the basis of the relevant ministers over the period and recall that the country's GDP has been reduced by about 5 billion. I wonder: Is this a Statistical Service, or is it an elevator? For Article 26, entitled "Extension of the reduction of the rent for professional leases", we agree, but the government is doing very little and too late, as Lagard had said. Article 28 entitled ‘Suspended payment of securities’. This is a distorted, ill, immoral system, that of post-modernised cheques. It's got to end sometime. It is linked to the proposals made by Mera25 for the creation of a permanent capital support mechanism. Prolonged suspension of payment of securities creates market distortions and the State should ensure that the aid given is targeted and paid directly. This article is of a positive nature, but in practice it simply passes a problem to the other accumulated obligations and will become unresolved. "The subject has taken explosive proportions," says "NAYTTERIC". Article 29 entitled ‘Standard expenditure’. We don't disagree. It mentions the Chamber of Economics of Greece that it should not be delayed. The EESC also emphasises that this should include businesses that have reduced their turnover to 15% to 20%. They were also affected by increased costs due to the application of protection measures to treat the coronary. Article 30 entitled ‘Financial aid to AEGEAN’. Of course we must support AEGEAN, but not in this way. To mention here, because I am from Heraklion and I know a lot of people, that personnel who worked in 2019 in "Aegean" the company did not suspend it and so many employees were not supported by the government's measures. This article includes fine terms, with no commitments from the company, such as the maintenance of jobs, the prolongation of the tourist season, the maximum rehabilitation by foreign tour operators and foreign low-cost airlines. Last year, we know that the number two tour operator 'THOMAS COOK' was collapsed and this year, number one, which if it collapsed, would collapse too many hotels and banks. Never do that, but we must be ready as Greece. And finally, its transition to the use of so-called sustainable fuels, known as SAF, Sustainable Aviation Fuels, which, beyond 80% of the fewer carbon dioxide emissions than compatible fuels, are tested and certified for safe use, contributing to the management of the environmental crisis, which is at the core of the Mer25 programme since its establishment. You know what has happened recently with the young lady from Sweden on this issue of the environmental crisis and carbon dioxide emissions. This aid in the form of a direct grant will also be a prerequisite for other fewer people, such as the 'FRAPORT', who have suffered damage. On the contrary, many small and medium-sized enterprises are in a state of intubation and you are opening up oxygen. It is certain that when we open the oxygen in an intubated, this is equivalent to death. Inequality is growing, rich are becoming richer and poorer. Mera25, from the beginning of the pandemic, underlines the urgent need for a 'haircut' of debts due to a pandemic. Article 36 entitled 'Reduction of VAT on tickets to zoos'. No objections, but why this selective approach? I wonder how many zoos Greece has, as Yanis Varoufakis asked. I would answer: Have you made all Greece a zoo, or have you made it a jungle? You have turned a country of heroes - and I refer to the two hundred years since the Greek Revolution - into a sheep country and we remember what had been said before. When the sheep comes out of the mantle, the wolf eats it. Article 38 on the further staffing of the AACC due to Brexit, we recognise the need, but we want public revenues to come to the control of the State rather than the AACC. And finally Article 41. We are voting in favour of the need for the concession, but as Mer25 we recognize that there are thousands of other sports clubs in this regard, particularly amateurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u291	The next speaker is Mr Papadimitriou Charalambos from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u292	Mr President, we are debating once again additional exceptional measures to strengthen society and the economy to tackle the multiple threats posed by pandemic. It is confirmed almost twelve months later that the policy of continuous, careful, time-driven and fair support from the state was the right choice. This policy, combined with the overindulgence of the health system, although it encountered the strong reaction on the part of Officer Response, remains our shield, as shown by the country's comparatively good position in the global dimensions of battle with calamity. Moreover, it is rewarded by the capital markets that supported and supported Greece. It was also confirmed by the European institutions which decided to support Greece with EUR 32 billion, with EUR 6 out of which EUR 10 is a non-refundable loan transfer, which is done in the name of the Union. Let us give Parliament some time to think about what would happen if this pandemic had come out in the autumn of 2015. It would be the complete catastrophe. I think no one disagrees with the experience gained and the colleagues of the SYRIZA wing would be...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u293	With the reserves we have certainly found!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u294	The reserves you had eaten, everything that the Greek people had put aside at the time, and any hope and trust had disappeared. Because you react to me say that, in 2018, we should have borrowed in the same way to deal with the pandemic, namely 17 billion in tents, 14.5 billion in bonds - that is what we have done since the beginning - we should have paid interest, if we found it, four times more money. I think that's why you at least owe a thank you to the Prime Minister. When you see him, tell him. Why is that? Because trust has been restored. I hear often and I read that everything is due to the fact that the European Central Bank has been in the middle of it. Wrong. There is no worse mistake than getting a proper finding and not reaching the right conclusion. About a year ago, there was a telephone conversation between the Prime Minister and the President of the European Central Bank, Mrs Lagard, who said to him and confirmed that - and so it did - Greece could raise capital from monetary funding, the famous QE, and even without any other condition. We had lost until that day four years. Mr. Tsipras was March 2016 - if Mr. Tsakalotos were here, he could finally confirm it, without fear of some kind of strange punishment - he had instructed his Minister, Mr. Tsakalotos, to leave Brussels, and at that time we could take the QE. So he came back undisturbed in Athens, while since then we could have achieved this reduction, entered the obedient money, succeeded growth much sooner than wait. So as in 2015 and 2016, you are still unrepentantly insisting on policies, which are indeed mocking ears, but destroying the state if the defences of the social body are finally applied. The fact that Greece was not in investment in 2016, neither in 2018, nor in 2019, nor in 2020 when Lagard calls Mitsotakis, nor even today, although our ranking has improved, but we are being easily borrowed, is due to this absolute truth, that they have confidence in what we are doing, how we are doing it, and especially in what we are preparing to do in the coming years. The secret lies in insistence on reformism. The assurance that Greece now has a government prudent, which houses the things, which governs without ideological bumpers, which does not conflict with logic or with the - unfortunately for everyone - stubborn reality, which puts the interests of many above that of the few. All this is what has allowed the government to take the necessary measures, to support households. With four hundred and fifty thousand, we started seven hundred thousand self-employed and a million employees. And all this, so we can achieve what? I can assure you, in passing, that there is a reassurance to all those who are closely following this issue that in 2022 we will remain with a budgetary exception. So there won't be any Shoeble's discipline or anything like that. So we have opportunities. Therefore, we need to go forward very quickly for the next day. There is the key. That's where we need to be careful what we're going to do. It must be ready for entrepreneurship to move quickly, i.e. to get back to work, not to be where we were, but in a new very important direction that will go everywhere. Today, FITCH, which is one of the bodies they judge us, said that they are manageable and the red funds that will be created in the banks by the pandemic. This also runs counter to the bad bank forecasts at the time. So we have the possibility, ladies and gentlemen, to take this big step. Personally, I think that this is where the Minister of Finance must bear all his weight, to find ourselves on the next day of the pandemic, in other words, when we are ready, to have the same credibility, the same confidence in the markets, and that is where entrepreneurship wins. In this way, Greece will remain in the victor's camp. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr Papadimitriou, and the consistency in time. The next speaker is Mr Evangelos Apostleou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak about the census. The previous one had as reference time in 2010, when our country entered memos. The current one has in 2020, which has experienced the consequences of a pandemic that you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, could not manage. We're living a tragedy. Our fellow citizens are lost every day, they are immersed in mourning, despair and insecurity. 2020 has left another tough reality, the unpleasant effects on the economic situation of households, professionals, businesses and workers, and of course the rural area has not been affected either. This has not even been understood by the Prime Minister himself, because his recent visit to the Ministry of Rural Development, where he said the site had a lot of support, is characteristic. However, this support was only EUR 150 million. This is respect for a place where, not only is struggling to stand up, but also to meet the country's nutritional needs! When we, ladies and gentlemen, received the government, the rural area was downstream. However, despite the generalised requirements of correcting everything, we have already given a clear sample of intentions and actions since the first day. I am very pleased to say that, from government responsibility to the end of the crisis, the agricultural sector's share of GDP has reached 3.9%, employment from 11% to 12% and the deficit - please note, ladies and gentlemen - from 2 billion euros. When we met in January 2015 at the Ministry, there was no pandemic, there was the memorandum. What's more, what was there? An envelope that we found before us, which had 1.3 billion fines imposed on our country because of the poor management of Community funds in the 2007-2013 programming period, which you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, ruled, and a set of farm-based recoveries of about 1.5 billion for aid granted by your own governments without the approval of the European Commission. We have been able to repay EUR 450 million from the fines, which must, Minister, be directly granted to farmers, because it is farmers' money. We also managed to withdraw 375 million of the impounds. In other words, we had a total benefit of EUR 825 million as a country. The key to the first decision was the law on grazing land - you voted against it in the House - and for the second right cooperation with the cooperatives. We'll have other refunds from our government's management. At the same time, of course, with regard to these problems, we have put order on the payments of aid. The farmer is now aware at the beginning of the programming period how much money he will get and at what time to plan the course of his activity as well. We have managed to make payments with a clear timetable known to the beneficiaries, without imposing any fines on our country. Of course, you did not manage to serve it in recent payments. You made them "sea"! The present inventory should not, ladies and gentlemen, be a simple display, as the previous ones have said, for many reasons. The main thing is that the rural area is now the only tool for the country's productive reconstruction. It's a lot of questions. Did the Ministry of Rural Development participate in the drafting of the bill? What is going to happen with the abundance that has been taking place for decades in public agricultural land? We set up an agency, the DDIAGE, the Property Management Agency, to manage, among other things, thousands of unpaid agricultural properties in areas that are extremely critical, even for our national interest. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Rural Development has abolished him. Many questions will arise during the census procedure. How will you deal with the cases of the Greek state being violated by the Greek Government, Mr Minister? Will you apply the identification of the property number in the single payment, which has been made compulsory, or will you refer it to the 'goods', as is the case with all the problems in the rural area? How will you deal with the problem of hundreds of thousands of objections and objections to the areas declared to the IACC? If you accept them without examination, you'll have a problem with the CPD. How will thousands of co-operatives and private individuals who are currently being sold out by the special clearer and foreign funds? And what about their debts? Will you let us know someday, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Apostle, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u298	Will the Ministry of Rural Development be watching all this, or will it look like he wants to send it to individuals from a long time?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Apostle, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u300	So the problem of signature is a great one, Minister. You didn't hear it. I particularly want you to see all the procedures that the rural area needs to defend a public rural property that it really needs. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u301	The next speaker is Mr Spanakis Vassilis - Peter from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u302	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words because in the last few days there has been a grievance from colleagues in the Opposition about the quantity and frequency of bills and regulations, especially on the arrangements for dealing with pandemic, because in this bill we have new measures and updates and extensions of existing measures. I believe that we are basically in agreement with all the wings with the support measures brought by the Government of New Democracy. I would like to say this, and I ask you: should we discuss any objections and objections that exist, even on a point of order, but do you have any specific suggestions? Because we have not yet heard proposals from the Opposition. We have not heard specific proposals, targeted proposals. Even with measures that are publicly agreed, in here, on the channels, you find something and there is a whim to disagree about minor details. That's the truth. On the contrary, our government has shown throughout this time that it is listening not only to the majority MPs, but also to the MPs of the opposition. This has recently been shown by the repayable advance of five, where due to some problems or omissions, many companies have been threatened to stay out of business. And quite rightly and in good time, the Ministries of Economic and Development gave a second opportunity and an extension until 8 February for those companies which had not submitted an expression of interest, as well as for some firms that had remained outside the regulation. So, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see in practice too, we are listening and waiting for your essential proposals. The draft law we are debating today includes a number of arrangements for the consequences of the health crisis, also includes some urgent financial arrangements and, of course, most of all, it concerns the implementation of the general inventory by ELSTAT for the year 2021. The general censuses are being carried out, as we all know, consistently every decade and this year is one of the most critical, because of our country's serious demographic problem, and it is under the most peculiar and difficult conditions. Note that the data will be collected mainly online through the 'Gov.gr' digital platform and where this cannot be done, it will be done by a personal interview, of course respecting all security measures. We therefore have a census of buildings, populations, housing, and at the same time we also have the census of agriculture, livestock, which also produces very important elements. Inventories for all countries in the world are very important. They illustrate the reality and, if you like, translate into a justice. Because we know very well that a proper census brings justice for both self-government and for what to be given to the 1st and 2nd degrees of Local Government. The results of the censuses create planning for politics, for society, for the economy, for work, for the environment. Above all, the census, as I have said before, brings social justice. It also brings jobs for young people mainly, but also for skilled professionals and scientists employed in collecting and processing data. I now come to the COVID arrangements. Allow me again to address my colleagues in the Confederal Group who are critical not of the measures, but of the way they are taken, that they are supposedly fragmented, that every time we bring new extensions of measures, new measures on occasion, etc. But both COVID - and we must not forget that - is dynamic and mutant. How could it be done differently, ladies and gentlemen, of counter-population? What's the alternative? Shall we legislate once? And then what? The crisis continues and the more the health crisis persists, as will the economic crisis. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the relevant ministries will continue to legislate with appropriate support measures for all citizens. So we have in today's bill an extension of the rent reduction for professionals who are exempted from the obligation to pay rent for the months January and February. The regulation includes all retailers. At the same time, we also support renters who lose income from these rents with 60% to 80% of the rent, which is incomprehensible and tax-free. We've got a set of maps. Also, in Article 29, we have a new support and assistance measure for enterprises by which the New Democracy Government, by recognising the liquidity problem they face, covers in the form of state subsidies, tax-free and incomprehensible, their fixed costs. The last article in the second part provides financial support of EUR 120 million to our main air carrier. I would like to say here that we need to support particularly - look at the big picture, see the forest - the tourism sector, because even in the most optimistic scenario the damage it has recorded is great and will take a long time to restore and overcome. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, one minute's tolerance. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Finally, in the third and final part of the bill, we have a number of tax, financial and other arrangements of the Ministry of Finance. I will start backwards and talk about Article 42, which talks about the process of integration and funding of projects financed by the Recovery and Resilience Fund. The provisions of this Article enable them to be financed by the Public Investment Programme and, in fact, to speed up procedures to start projects to be financed by the Recovery Fund. This bill includes exemptions from the special solidarity levy for 2021. Very important is Article 35, where we have deadlines for excise duty and for VAT. We have a VAT reduction of 13% for specific services, and we are also talking about the ADP staffing that should be directed because of Brexit.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u303	Mr. Spankee, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing down here, Mr President, and thank you very much - dream as much as you wish. Risk as much as you want. But you should know one thing. This government opens doors! It opens doors to professionals because we know how to keep the market upright, keep the economy machine open and open the door to the economy. We have a health crisis that we will overcome. We open a door to the employees, the pensioners, the property owners. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance spoke at the POMIDA conference and had respect for and recognition of all the owners of real estate for the effort being made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u305	Close, Mr. Spankee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u306	So, to this government that takes yes, but that is a good measure, you see that we continue to legislate because we have to deal with this health crisis and its serious economic consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u307	Mr. George Arvanitides has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u308	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, may my dear colleague, Mr Spanakis, see open doors in the future, but open doors to the stores will probably be late to see. I start with the first part of the bill, where arrangements are in place to carry out the General Census of 2021, an extremely important process to design any policy in our country. I hope that the development of the pandemic will enable it to be done smoothly, and as all these census procedures must be carried out, so that the Hellenic Statistical Authority can carry out this extremely difficult and important work in the particular circumstances that we have all been experiencing for a year. The messages on the course of the coronary and pandemic in our country are not very optimistic - both health and economic - as is, of course, not optimistic and the elements we already know and expect to be recorded on the reduction of our population, which, unfortunately, will also officially seal the inventory. Today is an opportunity to recall that the Intergroup on Demographic Demographics, set up by a unanimous decision of the House in May 2017, on a proposal from the Chairman of our Group, Mrs Fofi Gennimata, had come to a conclusion in March 2019 with proposals and conclusions. The previous government ignored them and the New Democracy Government has confined itself to establishing a birth allowance, considering that it has done its duty. We in the Change Movement have submitted a proposal since December 2018 for a national demographic policy to support the family with concrete proposals. Census and, above all, its results are sure to put the issue of demographic problems back on the agenda. Finally, we have to make brave decisions and measures. I now come to the other provisions of the bill on dealing with the impact of the coronary pandemic on economic life. At first glance, at first glance and given the continued prolongation, in fact, of Lockdown on the market, one could say that the arrangements you bring, Minister, are reasonable. Unfortunately, however, I predict that you will bring in several - and many times - new regulations. However, if the government had adopted a serious liquidity programme through bank lending and a repayable advance payment system for all companies, it would not be necessary, for example, for these suspensions in securities that distort the market. I wonder why, in fact, you do not adopt our proposal from April on an intermediate bank tool with some public guarantee, which would address the problem of cheques? This tool would actually be a public guarantee. So the checks would be paid, without constantly shifting the problem with a risk of creating a real domino on the market. It is also a wonder why you expect EUR 12.5 billion from the liquidity provided by the European Central Bank as deposits by the Greek banks to the Bank of Greece and why you do not lead them to the market. And, of course, with regard to the strengthening of 'AEGEAN', it can also be done in other countries of Europe, with Germany giving the first signal in support of 'LUFTHANSA', but, Minister, much attention and wisdom is needed. As both our rapporteur, Costas Scandalidis, in committee and in plenary, has rightly pointed out, you should better ensure the interests of the Greek public. There are ways to do that. For example, with increased clauses, you can ensure that the sums to be paid by the Greek State are repaid and assessed if this aid is excessively burdened by the Greek taxpayer. I also want to stand by four more articles in the bill. Article 39 aims to solve a chronic problem for property located in the Municipality of Laureate and Saronicos. Mr Minister, these issues must be resolved in a uniform way throughout the country rather than by ad hoc provisions. Article 40 provides for the payment of workers who continue to work in enterprises under a special management procedure. The proposed regulation, Minister, is, of course, welcome, but it introduces obvious discrimination in favour of a single category of workers, those employed by companies under special management, unlike the large majority of workers, who are due to huge amounts of redundancies and redundancies, and who will continue to be subject to a more unfavourable regime. The proposed regulation, for reasons of equality, equality, equal treatment and legal certainty, as stated in the explanatory statement accompanying it, must therefore be extended to all workers involved in bankruptcy or enforcement. That is why - because we consider it to be a question of democracy, of equivalence, this arrangement that we are asking to extend to everyone - we have tabled an amendment which we call on you to accept. In Article 41, the use of three real estates to cover their sports purposes is granted to the amateur HRAKLE. Obviously, we agree. The facilities granted, such as Hortajides in the center of Thessaloniki and the field of Micra, are something that will help the sports departments of HRAKLI, a sports club with huge history and a contribution to sports and not just events in Thessaloniki. Finally, I close with a label on Article 42 and the pre-accession and financing process from the Public Investment Programme to the European Union Relief and Resilience Fund. I fear that, once again, we are only building on the absorption of funds and speeding up the procedures to immediately start the projects to be financed by the Recovery Fund. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need a little time, Mr. President. We do not emphasise the measurable effectiveness of these projects and the added value they bring to the country. I understand the government's stress in view of the new recession and the difficulties in the economy, but haste, Minister, is not always a good consultant. I hope that the opportunity of the Recovery Fund will not be wasted on a balance in the government, that is, between the Minister of Finance, the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Minister of Development, because otherwise on what projects, we will see that the start of their financing, so many professionals and businesses will see the keys to their businesses hand over to Mr Georgiadis. So conspiracy and attention and not toys of balance and communication. We're in communication! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u309	The next speaker is Mr Voloudakis Manos from New Democracy. Here, Mr Manosso, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first part of today's bill has been debated much less than he deserves. The 2021 Census is of special importance. It is natural that we have not discussed much, because they are technical regulations and, obviously, most of us agree. However, the debate on the process and the way in which the census is conducted brings us to the biggest problem of our country, the problem of our national survival, the demographic problem. There's been a lot of noise. I want, however, - because it is recently the data - to bring to the attention of all of us the 2019 birth and death statistics announced by ELSTAT. In 2019, we had eighty-three thousand seven hundred sixty-three births - a 3.1% reduction compared to 2018 - while we had a hundred and twenty-four thousand ninety-five deaths. And that's the picture in recent years in general. I mean, last year, we had forty thousand more deaths of birth. This shows that our country is being marred, and we have to deal with this with policies like those that started. We already have a first policy from the government with an allowance. This is not enough, however, especially with regard to the flooding of migrants, which creates conditions which cannot be sustainable in our homeland as we know it, when its population is falling as it is. I would like to refer to only one article on census, in Article 10(3), where it stipulates that the census will take place mainly on the Internet, and that is where we should be going today. Of course, we must determine what this'mainly' is, which begins and ends. And I'm saying it with a certain concern. In our homeland the countryside is devastated. Small villages are generally waiting for most of us to have smaller inventories available online. So, Minister, ELSTAT must receive the necessary provisions and this must be regulated and institutionalised so that it does not appear even less than the real population of the small villages. I now come to the measures adopted by this bill, because we have some additional economic aid measures that are very important, such as the discharge of the tenants of companies closing down by administrative or legislative means in January or February, and they no longer pay anything, no rent, and at the same time the owners are compensated with 80% of the rent, and even tax-free, i.e. they have nothing to do with any damage. This is a very critical arrangement that strengthens the arsenal to address the economic impact of the pandemic which has so far allowed the economy and society, first of all, to stand up. There is still a very positive regulation that is being voted on today and it is the new measure to cover fixed costs of businesses from the state budget, a cover for which we will see in ministerial decisions afterwards. The Minister already mentioned it. It is, however, a European regulation which now allows for this possibility, namely that companies affected by the COVID pandemic can also be strengthened for fixed costs such as their wages and other operating costs. Speaking for the measures, Minister, I would like to say that the procedure for the clearance of tax rebates by leasers should be speeded up, as should the payments of the December rent. I would like to mention very briefly a particular category of professionals who are currently facing a very great problem in managing their jobs. They are the accountants, Minister, and you know that very well. This whole framework of institutional arrangements results in an accounting office. Accountants just don't get there anymore. I would like to refer specifically to the'my data' - very correct - which should start using from 1 April. However, Minister, it appears that it is not possible to operate from 1 April, especially as regards the registration and accounting of costs. I do not want to go into more detail because now that we are approaching a year from the beginning of the pandemic, it is an opportunity to make a few general thoughts. Here I will agree with many of our colleagues in the Opposition and Mr Tsakaloto, who says it is time to see what we are doing in general, how we go, what we think. It is obvious that we were elected on a liberal agenda, which we adapted to the data, precisely because we do not function dogmatically. We have come with a liberal agenda, and today we have aid for aid and benefits for society to be able to operate, and we even have a planning tomorrow through the Recovery Fund, which is again State intervention in the economy, as the logic says today. But what do you do, gentlemen of the Officer's Response? You have chosen a rough way of opposition, where if the government saves someplace to give ten, you say "give fifteen". But that's not opposition. This is not a creative approach to things. You should also see reality and understand that returning to the past cannot be a proposal for the future. Mr Tsakalotos told us that it is not true that if you increase expenditure too much, you are being borrowed from the future, because if the economy is not in full employment, it has room for additional wealth, etc. Yes, that's true. One difference. One detail Mr. Chakalotos forgot, the public debt. In a country where public debt has exceeded 200%, how will you finance these extra costs?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u311	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u312	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. We are in a fragile, fragile balance, and we must not hide it from the world. We must proceed wisely, because we are not in the position of Germany or France. If, in two, three, five, ten years, the conditions of the world economy are different, our debt refinancing potential will not be the ones we have today. So we can't always depend on borrowers. That is why we must be careful. The patent that Mr. Tsipras had found before the patents of biotechnology, which said that 'we will say something and beg to lend us', that patent, unfortunately, is not there. So we must be more serious in the face of the serious challenges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u313	Next speaker, Mr. Syriza, Syriza.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u314	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am not going to talk about the first twenty-fifth articles on the census. Census is obviously a very serious process, which is repeated every ten years. However, I would like to say something that I noted this morning that the rapporteur of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalidis, said: 'Do not think of implicating the census in political games', political developments, registrations, limitations and I do not know in which areas, to get out of these seats or add them, etc. I shall therefore refer to the other issues which the bill puts, which I would call them economic aid measures. It's a few measures to strengthen the economy. After all, several articles of this are to be voted on and that is why almost all the institutions have seen them, of course, highlighting the problems of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the focus, the free professionals and these layers which have actually been affected by the government's inadequate and very delayed measures. Minister, it is clear that we are facing a budget review. As in October with the draft you presented, you fell out of October to December when we voted for the normal budget of 2021, so now, 4 February that we have today, you have found yourself out of the estimates you have made. And, of course, all of these elements are, unfortunately, predestined for our country, that in the first half of 2021 at least things are not going well. This means that the growth you had calculated, 4.8%, of course cannot be caught. It's an inappropriate target. I fear very much that we do not get to the percentages given by the OECD. In any case, today our country is going through the biggest recession from all the countries of the European Union and so it ended in 2020 - we will see the final figures - with more than 10%. But unfortunately, as I told you, the first months, of course, because of pandemic, but also because of delayed and incomplete measures that you are taking, have led us to this great recession. You said, Minister, and to the committees that you made seven billion repayable advance. But, as we all know, these are loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u315	No, it's not all loans. Four and five aren't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u316	I don't know if it's 75% or 80%. However, it's loans. The fourth and fifth, you started. We have told you from the outset to implement this policy. And because the European Union is now reviewing some frameworks, it is imposing it. But at the same time with the information you say, we must say that there is 6 billion damage - that shows all the evidence - in December 2020 to February 2021, when the commercial world in December lost 2.5 billion, while GATT says that six out of ten companies will put a lock on it. A few months ago she was telling us about three out of ten. Now we've been to six out of ten. We had tabled timely measures and realistic and costly. And these measures were tabled because we knew exactly that we had left a substantial amount of money of 37 billion, without which we would now have again bankruptcy in the country, as we had in 2010. Let us not overlook that. You have admitted slowly that there are these 37 billion and thankfully. So we are telling you that, apart from the measures that are being taken, we in Thessaloniki have proposed a number of other measures. For the focus VAT should go from 13% to 6% for as long as the crisis, a refund to farmers of excise duty on oil, a permanent abolition of the solidarity levy for all without exception, for all incomes and for pensioners and for civil servants up to EUR 40,000, and after a reduction in rates of 40 000 to 65 000, a permanent abolition of the trade fee, a permanent reduction in the advance tax to 50%. I, too, put to the committees a matter. It is time to look again at the reduction in VAT rates in the island regions. It's called the other parties. They have also tabled amendments. It's called. And I'm not saying we should go back to what it was like. And I would remind you that this debate has been opened - and it has also been opened to the institutions - because of the e-mail Hardouvelis. And I had said it many times, but it certainly seems to me that the e-mail Hardouvelis opened the appetite for increasing VAT rates on the islands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will not be late. Anyway, it is time to have a single reduced VAT rate in all the countries of the European Union, since we no longer have these commitments we had from the Financial Stability Pact and from the surpluses. And I would say one last, and I am also addressing the staff of the Ministry of Health. The small islands - let us start from a thousand inhabitants below - cannot level up the health care measures as in the larger parts. These small islands have not been humane for months, they are healthly safe and the people who want to go and have coffee in the cafeteria or in a man-made restaurant cannot go and this creates huge problems both in the small market movement there and in the psychology of people themselves. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u317	Thank you. The reason for this is Mr. Prussakis Anastasios from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my condolences to the family and the Fire Corps for the loss of Giannis Zafiropoulou, who fell on duty. I am pleased to say that the state will stand by the family of the deceased, as the Prime Minister and the Chief of the Fire Corps in Alexandroupolis have said. I am pleased to accept the decision just now by the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament which adopts the three minor children of unfortunate Firemen from the Duma of Evros. Evros and his residents, ladies and gentlemen, count their wounds. The two extreme weather events within twenty days, Minister, have caused damage and there has been the tragedy with the loss of human existence. They also highlighted the need for even sanctuary, and why not famine, because the county has been in a state of emergency for eleven months and peculiar turbulence. Dear Minister, we want you on our side and I invite you to visit us. Evros is not an accidental county. He has sensations and needs special affection. It is a triple prefecture with national peculiarities, with many and many problems, with arrhythmias and uncertainties. The construction of the dams in the Great Dereio Soufli area, the Manthia Alexandroupolis and the Aspronei Dimotio is considered vital. Armoring the north, central and southern Evros from floods, we contribute to the management of the water tumors. At the same time we guarantee water supply, irrigation and electricity production. In addition, the re-engineering study of Alexandroupolis airport, and in particular from the Apalos region to the Loutras, is necessary. It's where our man was lost. It is important to ensure financial conditions in order to provide a long-term solution for future generations as well. The draft law under discussion establishes a roadmap for the integration of projects into the Public Investment Programme to be financed by the European Union Recovery Fund. Minister, the finances following my written and oral proposals to the co-legislative ministers, I ask for the projects that I intended to carry out under fast track procedures through the Recovery Fund. Evros is the most beautiful memory of the great empire. Take Evros to your back to become a model of the prefecture of Greece and the European Union. Maybe. And now on our point. This draft law constitutes the bridge between the darkness of the pandemic and the clearing of social and economic development. It provides security and certainty to the affected citizens. Emphasizing the productive and developmental process with fiscal and tax arrangements, the state is stacking the financial damage suffered by companies, such as the discharge of companies from the rental payment for January and February 2021, the payment of 80% of the monthly rent by the State to the lessor, the facilities with the payment of securities and the payment of cheques, public money cover the fixed costs of the affected enterprises, support to the air transport sector by keeping existing jobs alive. Ladies and gentlemen, the main economic development lever of the Evros is agriculture, livestock and fishing in open waters and at sea. This draft law provides for a set of primary support measures, and I am pleased to see that. It's changing the way the statements are submitted. Agricultural aid and subsidies can now be declared in the year of their collection, a favourable regulation facilitating the switchover process of farmers from the special scheme to the normal scheme. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] The special solidarity levy exempts agricultural subsidies and aids collected in the tax year 2021, but shall be included in the 2020 tax year. I note that the forecast general inventory of 2021 is a useful tool. We are called on to count demographically, not only for statistical reasons but also for national purposes. In the villages and settlements of the acronym Evros, the demographic issue is a bomb, the fuse of which is lit, while Athens does not see and listen to our disappointment. We expect national and European initiatives from the government with the support of the whole opposition. We ask that the villages and settlements of the county remain alive, as they are active camps, not only of Greece but of the European Union. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis once again demonstrates vigilance and determination, but also affectionately, with coherent plan, as well as actions, resolves problems of the past, drawing up a future in solid bases, so that at the end of this long-term health challenge we can be on the winners' side and even stronger. That is why I am voting in favour of this law. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u319	We also thank you for the time-consuming economy in the Bureau. Mr Melas will now be given the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, dealing with the pandemic and its consequences is a multifactorial exercise, as it has so far proved to be a great challenge, not only for the political and economic system in our country, but for the whole world. Every day that passes through the unprecedented health crisis that we are experiencing, until the necessary vaccination is completed, the pressure on the many Greek economy is increasing. We never hid, and we never made things look good. We admitted that mistakes have also been made in this process. We have not hesitated to make difficult decisions to protect public health, and if conditions demand it, we will do so again. However, we have a basic rule in all of this, a rule that has so far not been disputed by anyone: we follow the scientists' instructions faithfully. There is no manual for managing this crisis, neither in health nor in economic terms. Our country has received positive comments from the world community on the management of this pandemic. Proof of this is that large colossians such as "MICROSOT", such as "SUNNLIGHT", such as "AMAZON", such as "VOLKSWAGEN" and in the whole crisis, have been trusted by the markets. A few days ago Greece borrowed an amount of 3.5 billion in ten-year bonds at a rate of 0.8%, while in 2020 we raised some 12 billion from loans at very low interest rates. But we don't celebrate and continue to do whatever it takes. From the very beginning of this adventure, we have supported the Greek society, entrepreneurs, workers, the unemployed and our most vulnerable citizens, making use of all available resources. The Government constantly assesses the situation and forms the support measures as required. In 2020 we supported the economy with measures of 24 billion, while in 2021 budgetary support measures of 7.5 billion have been provided for in the budget to be made available where necessary until we finally return to normality. As the Minister of Finance said, last week the Greek economy received 1 billion euros. In three hundred and a half thousand six hundred eighty-nine companies were granted EUR 907 million by means of the fifth repayable advance. The advance payment is a measure that we made, and that is why we extended it to 2021. In particular, for the most tested food business, a special support package is being prepared, as the Minister for Development announced. To date, as Mr Stakoras said before, the operations of the focus of 1,93 billion have been given to cover workers' insurance contributions and financial support. Also, the contract suspensions for employees, the suspensions of credit, insurance and tax obligations, the reduction or even the zeroing of the advance payment of corporate tax, the payment of the insurance contributions of employees by the State is a breath for the Greek economy in this difficult period. Ladies and gentlemen, are these measures enough until this whole story ends? No, the duration of our pandemic will be affected, and this is why new support measures are provided for, namely, the suspension of the rental payment for closed businesses for January and February, the payment by the State of compensation to natural and legal persons who do not receive rents for the same months. Compensation will be inappropriate and tax-free. There is also provision for suspending the payment of cheques. Facilitating the repayment of cheques and exchanges which have expired or expired up to 28-2-2021. In addition, there is provision for a subsidy to undertakings affected by the pandemic to cover their fixed costs, a measure which has even retroactive effect since March 2020. There is also the strategic regulation for us, the strengthening of the only air carrier in our country, AEGEAN, with EUR 120 million, and the approval of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, you will also allow me to refer to the procedure for the census of the population provided for in the bill. This year's census is of particular value, as it is the first, after ten years of economic crisis that our country had, and its results will give us useful conclusions. How old is our country's population, how many young people have left abroad, how many new couples have given birth to children in the years of the economic crisis? Demographic is one of the most important problems in the country, which concerns the future of this place. We must also give solutions to this, and thankfully we all agree. It is also noteworthy that this year's census will take place through the Gov.gr platform, a platform that started almost a year ago by the Ministry of Digital Governance, an important reform that took place in the pandemic and has a strong social sign. In this time, through Gov.gr, a thousand ninety-five services are offered, making the daily lives of the citizens simpler and easier. Ladies and gentlemen, the management of the pandemic is a difficult equation. We must balance between the protection of public health and the functioning of our economy. So the measures we take are dynamically, evolve and adapt in line with the course of the pandemic. So they could not be forward, as the opposition tells us, because if we had followed this policy proposed by SYRIZA today, almost a year later, we would not have euros to support the Greek market. We therefore know and understand the problems and concerns of workers and businesses for the next day. We, the Members of this House, are getting the messages of society and transferring them to the government to manage the situation in the best possible way. As long as the crisis persists, we will continue and take steps to support the Greek economy. Our aim is to keep jobs and to support businesses. We are fighting to get out of this unprecedented crisis, with society upright and the economy alive. So in this effort there are no populisms, micro-political purposes and ambiguities. We have chosen the difficult road from the outset, the path of responsibility, the road of responsibility. We have chosen to walk the truth, truthfulness, along with the citizens, and so we will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, too. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Vorides, has the floor in order to put him in the amendment under a general number 736 and a special 110. Then Mr. Red will take the floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u322	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor very briefly in support of the amendment tabled by the Ministry of the Interior. It is 736/110, as the President said. I should like to explain what this amendment regulates and to say why it has been tabled today and is late, that is to say, what the urgency consists of. This amendment concerns the placement of administrations of legal persons supervised by the relevant ministries and ministries. As you may recall, a selection procedure was established under Law 4735/20. The selection procedure for these administrations goes through the establishment of a body in which the initiative to initiate this procedure is mainly the AACC because a member of the AACC participates and participates a representative of the Legal Board of State. In some bodies their term of office has expired, and today there is a matter of legal form and legal decision, because this procedure which needs to be initiated by the AACC has not been completed. So what this amendment does is as follows: Since the selection procedure has not been completed, then it is possible for this administration to remain and to have effective legality in deciding whether there is no gap in the administration of the legal person until the selection procedure of the new management board has been completed. It also establishes here an obligation for supervised legal persons to initiate the selection procedure within 20 days of the end of the term of office or otherwise of this decision, as from the adoption of the law. What do we cover with this? We ensure that there is no loopholes in the administration on the one hand and therefore legality in the formation and decision-making of supervised persons and, on the other hand, that the procedure is progressed more quickly, as this deadline is set. You understand that this has been submitted late, especially because there is an urgent need not to have any legal gaps in decision-making, so it has to be tabled. There is an urgent reason why it is justified that the House should accept its late statement and vote as a time-limit for tabling it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor to place her on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u324	First of all, Minister, I would like you to tell us why you do not extend the time. So for the three months, you could make them six, a longer period. In the way the amendment comes, we do not know when the administration will now change. Should you see it? Because as the provision is, at least we do not commit to voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mrs. Papanatsiou. Mr. Scandalidis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we're old caravans here than you know. This type of provision can also be seen behind their letters. So what's going on so far? Within three months the story should have been solved. Some people are not solved and you are now asking vaguely - you are not putting any end to this - that the transitionees should be appointed, that the molecules should be taken and that the administrative process should be overturned. In other words, here, even saying about secretaries who will make choices on the basis of certain criteria, do not joke, we know very well how secretaries are made and how they work in the Ministries. This is a clear provision which frees the government from being able to choose in the administrative body for a very long time and indefinitely appoint them. After all, you brought a law on ASPD a while ago, Law 4765 to decongest the ASPD, and now you're saying the ASP is not making it. Strengthen the ASA to do the job or say for three months, six months. Why isn't there a backward limit? As you can see, we cannot vote for such an amendment which is essentially anti-Serbia and is simply making it easier for the government to put its own people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u327	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u328	Thank you very much, Mr President. Look, we've been concerned about this. I say this to both colleagues who have - if you like - a similar critical position. The application of the law, what does it actually say? From the expiration of the term of office of the administration of the legal person within three months, this procedure shall have been completed. That's what the original layout says. We were concerned that we should simply extend - since there is this problem - over time and do so, for example, six months. What would that mean? This would in fact mean that there is no undertaking to initiate the procedure. Here, in fact, we could have gone to a suspension procedure, that is, not to start the selection process. That is what you suggest now, that I suspend the selection procedure. What am I telling you? I'm telling you that the selection process, if it hasn't already begun, starts within twenty days. What are you telling me? "Send the end date," that's what you tell me. To have the end date of this procedure in an institution that is an independent authority - to put a final date for it! - to meet us in six months to discuss re-expansion. So what we do is stick to the law. We insist on the application of the provision. The layout says the selection process begins. Therefore, we are not simply inhibiting, as you say to me, but, on the contrary, we insist and go ahead with this process in order to bring it to an end. To put an end to the AACC is something I cannot do because it is an independent authority and it will move with its own data. That thought you made has concerned us and rejected us, precisely because we would be exposed to exactly the opposite criticism from the one you are now doing to us. I think the order is correct and correct. I shall therefore call on the House to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kokalis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are discussing a draft law with rules, most of which are self-evidently an obligation of the state. That is why we are saying 'yes' to most of the reforms. Minister, to disagree about what measures are to be taken, to understand it. To disagree with when these measures will be taken for the entrepreneurship that is affected, to understand it. But to disagree about the reality, that is really worrying. From this point of view, you mentioned the Step and even showed the study by GSEE that there is no risk of locking. Let me show you and the newspaper "KATHMERINI", which is certainly not with Anti-Policy. What does it say on Sunday? "They're coming back to bed and layoffs. 4 billion were lost in nine months in the retail trade and then thereafter." Minister, the answer will be given. I will no longer insist on the interpretation of reality, whether aggregation of redundancies or padlocks is imminent. I will not insist, because it is like insulting the intelligence of this professional, the trader who is affected. The answer to give it to those who today in Larissa have handed over the keys to their business for your colleague, Mr. Georgiadis, to those who in Thessaloniki did the same thing to those who will do the same thing next week, I think, to the Maximos Concert Hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try in a few minutes to refer to the basic financial instruments announced by the government, but at the same time to specific proposals. Firstly, a repayable advance, perhaps the only measure that was in the first place in the right direction. Of course, we have had many injustices lately. Secondly, loans guaranteed by the Greek State. I would remind the public of how much it was advertised by the media, by recent ministers, the renowned liquidity of companies with loans guaranteed by the Greek State. To ask a simple question. These loans, how many small and medium-sized enterprises have they been received? Too few. Because banks apply the classic, well-known banking criteria for lending small and medium-sized enterprises. The guarantee, Minister, is only 32% for these loans from the public sector. And because you are not listening to proposals, opinions and positions from other European countries, I should like to tell you that in Germany it is 72%. Granted, it guarantees 80% of the amount of the loan portfolio to 40%. So the guarantee is about 32%. The fixed assets are a set-up that has been slowed down. No one can be placed across the street. ‘CHAPTER II’. Will it start in three months? Four? Two? The most basic condition is what? To have the borrower set up his loan. To do that, what is required? I'm being irresponsible. I now come to the second chapter of my speech, on proposals, Minister. You said we're deadlocked, we don't have any arguments. I come to proposals targeted, concrete and substantial, I believe essential, but legitimate. First, checks. It's a rough set-up. And tell you what? We're moving one step further. It's not socially fair. Firstly, we welcome it. Who has a bigger problem, Minister? The issueer of the check or the bearers? Don't forget that the check changes many hands. Let me remind you that we're not in 1990. Any person issuing checks shall have the corresponding funds available. Proposal. I've also reported to you. Reimbursement of the cheques with the guarantee of the Greek State. It will be said that it takes time to do so. Reply, Minister: In November 2019, the Ministry of Development approved the proctoring programme in advance with the guarantee of the Greek State. It is a programme that the previous government and the Development Bank had worked on. Now where is he? Will you disagree that this is a concrete and effective proposal? There's this program. The programme has been approved in November 2019. Second, rent. You said before that the needs can't be met. You have said that this is a difficult situation. But the most basic need? Do you know what the most basic need is? The need for the company to be viable after the pandemic. Today we are voting to pay the rents, the rents of January and February. Can I tell you something? It is a self-evident obligation of the state. Proposal for rents, but not handy: to be removed as a reason for termination of the contract, with criteria. It must not be at the expense of the owners. I've asked a question. Until the end of 2021, the pandemic should not be a reason for denouncing the lease agreement, just to say that it is not possible to carry out an eviction until the end of 2021, but on criteria in particular, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u331	But finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u332	I'll be done. Thirdly, the insurance contributions of self-employed and freelance professionals. In summary: The contribution you know very well that it is linked to work. If anyone has a job, he has to pay contributions. Right this far? That's right. I don't think we're gonna argue. Is this work connected to income?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u333	Close, though, because you've exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u334	It's connected. So, how does someone pay their contributions when they don't have income? That is why I am going to use the word that I have to use, Minister. Not the 'cut', not the deletion, but the adjustment of insurance contributions according to the turnover of undertakings. This is the third proposal and targeted. I'm finishing up with two conversations about the census. It's really gonna be a tool, as long as it's used properly. Demographically speaking, there is a problem in the number for our country. To tell the farmers that farms will also be invented.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u335	Mr. Red, you've gone far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u336	Ten seconds, Mr President, for thinking. Farms will be recorded. The sure thing is that not even half of those who will be recorded as farms will not be active and real farmers. That is why our country must finally draw up the register of active professional and real producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, too. With the approval of this House, for a personal reason that has been explained to me, I will now give the floor to Mrs Anna Happily. I invite her to come to Stepma. Then we will follow Mr Simopoulos first, then Mr Gilolas, Mr Leonardis and others. Webex system. Mrs Evriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u338	Ladies and gentlemen, because it is a matter of intense vigilance - and I am talking about complaints of sexual harassment and abuse - and because I have been dealing with social and employment issues and on this subject over time, and I have also tabled proposals for parliamentary action, I would like to make a little special reference from the Stephen of this House. I shall refer specifically to the intimidation of working people, known internationally as'mobbing'. I will give you three figures: Firstly, women by 77% are more inclined to make attacks targets. Secondly, in 58% of cases, the person is being taken into temporary or permanent incapacity to work again. And thirdly, Greece holds the third highest position in Europe at a rate of 13% in mobbing, according to a survey that I read in the newspaper "TO VIMA". In Greece they recently started to open mouths for both sexual attacks and intimidation and violence at workplaces. Women broke their silence and boldly denounced him, opening up a huge dialogue for the reasons that kept their silence until then and choosing the time to reveal such an event. The revelation of such an event wants much courage and strength. Work intimidation is not a fashion or a trend that occurs over the years and then disappears, nor stops if the mouth shut. The state must ensure all guarantees to encourage its revelation, but also all guarantees for the punishment of the perpetrator in a reasonable period of time, protecting the victim. With regard to the draft legislation under discussion, the Minister, our rapporteur, Mr Karaoglu, and my colleagues have mentioned very extensively in all the provisions. I shall refer to the chapter on aid to enterprises which are indeed very positive provisions. In particular, companies are exempted by 100% from the obligation to pay a rent for January and February, respectively, the lessor receives as a subsidy 80% of the rent, facilities are granted for the payment of securities, and there is even retroactiveness in the arrangements and - very importantly - the measure of State aid for enterprises is introduced in the form of a subsidy for fixed costs. This is a constant request from the producers who are now coming and are being implemented and, indeed, is a new financial instrument. Because I have listened very carefully to Mr Kokkalis's speech on the adjustment of the insurance contributions to the professions, I will say that this is not possible because it is confronted with the decision of the Council of State that had to change the entire insurance system and go not on the basis of income but on the basis of specific classes. So that's something he can't find application. So all these arrangements give a real breath in this difficult period. In this difficult phase we are experiencing, I feel the need to reiterate once again the support of small and medium-sized enterprises, which the government is right to do for three reasons. Because, first, they are enterprises which yield directly, they are undertakings of direct return. Secondly, because it ensures eight out of ten jobs. Thirdly, because of course they act as a balancing counterweight to the monoculture of the tourist product, which we have seen the grim consequences of this summer. Support for small and medium-sized enterprises goes through two stages. Firstly, what we are doing now during the pandemic and until the health end of it. Secondly, what happens next day, i.e. how small and medium-sized enterprises will be supported by the 'telecommunication' of the economy. The additional measures we are voting on today in this bill meet the needs of the first stage. It's a very difficult equation, and we all know it here. The first parameter of this equation is cash. The second component is that there is no possibility of assessing the duration of the pandemic. The third element is that there is no possibility of assessing the possibility of a new lockdown and its duration. Ladies and gentlemen, none of us last March imagined that, in about a year or so from now on, we would be discussing third incarceration. So imagine what would happen if we pushed all the financial tools ahead in May that SYRIZA said. Today it would be much more difficult to deal with this situation. The Government of New Democracy makes a rationalised management and increasingly throws more and more financial tools as far as possible. In this context, therefore, I should like to make a serious point of order. All financial instruments are intended to meet the needs of enterprises. But behind the companies - and this is also part of a large number of family businesses - there is also the family business manager, who must also meet the living conditions of his family. However, he has not at present received any subsidy, as the worker or the student received the rental subsidy and has to find a way to meet the needs of his family. I am saying this because I am aware of this problem, as I have been in constant contact and dialogue with the producer bodies in general, such as the President of the GSE, as well as at local level with the President of the Trade Association and chamber chairmen. I am therefore transferring the real situation, having a full perception that it is a very difficult equation. But in this equation it would be beneficial to take this into account too. Now in the second stage, the government really prioritises the companies after the "transit" of the economy. I have heard Mr Stavoura say the day before yesterday that if necessary, we will give more than EUR 7.5 billion. In order to become more specific, it is in the right direction to verticalise aid to enterprises, because any undertaking that really hurts will receive the greatest aid, such as foodism that is very painful at this time. Of course, in the debate on the next day, I think it is my duty to pass on the request by small and medium-sized enterprises for the non-refundable advance, which would be beneficial to look at by exhausting all the limits of the economy for the extent to which this can be met. Closed, regardless of personal fanatic preferences, it is reasonable as a Greek MP to be very active in all sports clubs in Thessaloniki. I would like to emphasise the benefit that will arise for the HRAKLIS Association with the granting of real estate to him for the immediate service of his sports needs and purposes. This is a historical union that has played an important role in sports and social events and in our city and in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. Before giving the floor to the Members who will be posted with Webex, I would like to say to everyone and beg them, because they do not listen to the clock and the sound that hits and warns, take out the clock and put it forward. The time given is six minutes and with the tolerance goes to seven. So I would ask you, so that we don't have a vacation, all those who will talk to have a watch in front of them, so that in six minutes they can go to the last page, so in one minute they can close their position. We are starting with the Member of the New Democracy Mr. Efstratios Simopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u340	Thank you. Mr President, let's say good - bad 1 of Thessaloniki. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to read the bill - I am addressing the Minister - first of all I have seen that it includes a regulation on the Laureate, on the property regime. But I was very sorry to notice that nothing similar is included for the exchange of property, plots and dwellings in Kalamaria. It is a matter that has been raised for a year. For over a year hundreds of families with thousands of members in Kalamaria have been hostage to this situation. We expect - I know the sensitivity of both the government and the Minister - to resolve the matter immediately, as has been resolved with the Laurent. I fully understand that today the Ministry is running the issues of pandemic. I understand that no mistake should be made, as he said. But here, for over a year, people have been constantly telling people that the exchange bill is imminent and at a later stage probably for the confiscations. A second topic, which I would like with its sensitivity to get out and handle, is the issue of doses for the inheritance tax of those who lost either from the pandemic or without the pandemic in 2020, because in the economic crisis some people are called upon to pay a legacy tax, which goes beyond their capabilities. We have to find a way of getting this legacy tax paid in instalments. Thirdly, with regard to some interventions, I believe that this will be done. As has been done for other Greek public subsidies, small professionals who have been subsidised by the regions because of the pandemic should also be given subsidies. It is a programme which has been 'run', which is a programme that already can and is being disbursed and must be seen within the framework of the COVID measures. I now come to the issue of the bill. The pandemic is obviously not a phenomenon of Greek and also the economic crisis is a phenomenon of Greek. It is essentially a global phenomenon that has been introduced into Greece. I understand the need for opposition, or for it to lift the bar, but it comes to calling for the government's circle to be squared. He's constantly asking for more resources. He's constantly asking for more economic measures. At the same time, he strikes the danger that we should not enter memorials, and he also does not want to run government work in the midst of a pandemic. The government is bringing reform bills and opposition is not voting for them. We have also heard that it will review the budget. Obviously the crisis is a dynamic one, so it's also handled. I'd say to colleagues in the Officer's office that this road can be a long one. At the end of it they can claim that the pandemic was some conspiracy of Mr.Mitsotakis with "COSCO", so that the virus in Wahan can also be discovered. There's no end to this story. I think it is the wrong way and the Greek people are observing them. The government is handling the pandemic measures correctly. Depending on the development of the economic crisis, it takes the measures as well, and this is demonstrated by this bill, as by its latest acts. The returnee became non-refundable by 50%, and it appears that even 50% of the first doses are open. Leases are no longer compensated for by tax exemptions, but by financial intervention, with cash in their accounts. Also, for the first time for January and February, and companies and legal persons, which are leasers, can use this benefit with 60%. I now come to the question of cheques. It's a step forward for the bearers. Let's not forget that. Any bearers in their hands more than 50% of the average of their monthly turnover in 2020, too, can enter the issue of suspension. I also think it is extremely important that we should grant the global loans. Along with the arrangements for the repayable advance, the main market support measures will be the provision. I also see, with a positive view, that we are not talking much about extending the guarantee programmes. Guarantee programmes, because they actually went through banks, did not reach those who were really in great need. Therefore, the burden must be borne, as is said, in subsidising expenditure and also in repayable advance. I want to say a few words about Hercules. Without HRAKI in the First National, it is much poorer not only football in Thessaloniki, but also throughout Greece, and all the moves must be made by the fans, by the administration and, of course, by the state - when it can - so that we can rediscover HRAKLIs in the First National. Finally, with regard to census, I consider it an extremely important measure, an intervention that will be used mainly to reduce fertility too much. However, at this point I would like to note something. Despite what I hear - and it must be done - that infertileness will be reduced if unemployment is actually reduced and if women, our mothers and girls are able to have easier access to the labour market, this must also be combined with subsidised support for many families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, too. Mr President, you have the floor to put yourself on Mr Vorides' amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u342	The amendment that Mr Vorides supported a moment ago is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Minister. Mr Leonardis, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is tragic that while our people in high-risk emergencies, such as the pandemic problem, the instincts of collective survival are being activated because they are faced with an existential threat and are united, the opposition, unlike what is happening, is trying to take advantage of the health crisis and to divide the citizens with bad and bad arguments that do not stand. When, in the midst of a pandemic, SYRIZA invites to gather, when it draws responsibility to the Government on the issue of vaccines, devalues the intelligence of the citizens who see this as a global problem with pharmaceuticals, when acting in terms and clichés of the past, it means that it is unable to study reality. The tools he uses have now rustled. On the contrary, the government daily gives a titanic struggle with the first care of humans and public health and at the same time with the support of workers, businesses, financial weaknesses with a glance at all times in the next day. Financial measures have prevented uncontrolled evacuation of unemployment. They must, however, be stimulated by the proper management and use of the Recovery Fund. The first part of the bill refers to an inventory of the year 2021 by the Hellenic Statistical Authority. The aim of the census by the Hellenic Statistical Authority is to inventories of buildings, population, housing, agriculture and livestock, to compile statistics in the context of the country's national, European and international obligations, and to develop and plan development. I am saddened, however, because in the census of population and housing in the region, that is to say in our villages, we will find ourselves before a sad surprise: the cramping of the population and homes uninhabited, the reduction of farmers and farmers and the ageing of the rural population, with what this means. The forecasts for the population of Greece after 20 years are bleak. We will be fewer by one million, in the pessimistic scenario, and by half a million less, in the optimistic, and in any case, with an ever-increasing average age. Only in 2019 we had forty thousand deaths more than births. We must lay down, even now, a new foundation for a modern demographic policy in the country, because the demographic problem is the biggest threat to the nation, it is a 'time bomb' and a major national problem. It is very important that the Prime Minister has decided to create and operate a State Secretary for Demographic Policy and Family dealing with these issues. The bill also provides for significant support and protection for businesses affected by the health crisis: exemption from the payment of rents, facilities for the payment of cheques and the grant of fixed costs, which give "refresh" to businesses on a marathon road, to stay on the next day of the pandemic. In particular, they are fully exempted from the obligation to pay a rental for January and February 2021. Included are all retailers, whether they operate by electronic or telephone commerce or by home delivery, catering enterprises, whether they operate by distribution of products or by supplying products in a package from the store, hairdressing and aesthetics centres, businesses in the cultural and sport sectors, gyms and other enterprises that remain closed by a government mandate. In addition, tourism enterprises, such as hotels, accommodation, tourist agencies and transport undertakings, are included, as they are particularly affected by the ban on movements from a county. Another important measure is to facilitate professionals and businesses in the suspension of payment of securities, cheques and exchanges. The solidarity levy also exempts agricultural subsidies and aid, which are collected in the tax year 2021, but which go back to tax year 2020. At the same time, the Government is moving towards an important measure to support companies affected by pandemic in the form of the grant of fixed costs, which is irresponsible, tax-free and not offset by any debt. Fixed costs include indicative salaries of officials and specific operating expenses. Minister, the fact is that the focus has been irreparably affected by the consequences of the pandemic. Given that there is also the threat of a third "wave" in relation to the pandemic and that the working time of these enterprises is removed, in order to keep the focus businesses alive the next day and to survive, targeted measures are needed in addition to those adopted, such as: Expansion of VAT on the focus, priority given to the long-term closure of these enterprises in subsidising their fixed costs, i.e. employees' wages, water, electricity and municipal charges, so as to maintain their staff and to avoid an explosion in unemployment. Also, financial instruments after the relaunch, which we can discuss in the next period. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, another colleague has referred to the issue that solves the exchange of land. And in Serres Prefecture, there has been a huge issue and loose ends, where they have been unresolved for years. In any case, we have to solve them in total. Same in other prefectures. Ladies and gentlemen, in exceptional and difficult circumstances, the value of solidarity characterises the quality and culture of our Hellenic Republic and on this basis the New Democracy Government has the first role to play in the fight united in the frontline with the officials of public health.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u345	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u346	I shall conclude, Mr President. The general positive management of the pandemic, the digital leaps of last year, support for staff, intensive and structures in the health system will be the legacy of the crisis, with any mistakes that have made us wiser. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, too. As I said, everyone have the clock next to you, because you don't hear the warning bell. Mr. Beagis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since the title of the bill, one could easily conclude that in this plenary we are discussing a bill of purely technical nature, specifying the terms and conditions for the smooth conduct of the census of 2021. However, it is not only technical and procedural. This draft law needs immediate and urgent political attention. Minister, behind the census of citizens, we should first consider the census of your own policies. Unfortunately, the figures are extremely disappointing and completely revealing. ELSTAT data shows a negative birth and death balance. In 2019 we lost a Kozani, in 2018 a Rethymnon, in 2017 a Carditsa, a total reduction of twenty-two thousand seven hundred sixty-three souls. Against all of this, the government fails to put forward a comprehensive programme with concrete proposals and substantial policies to address the demographic problem. In the previous parliamentary term, the relevant intergroup committee set up at the initiative of the Change Movement reached a conclusion in March 2019, with concrete proposals and conclusions, which could well, Minister, use as a guide today. Instead, you are ignoring it as if you were not concerned with this negative population development that is taking place in our country and, indeed, at a time of pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that the census will record a decrease in population. We have knowledge and knowledge of the tragic day-to-day development of the pandemic in our country. However, do not try to hide the major demographic problem for our country, which was before, you and anyone behind the pandemic cloak. If you really cared about this population shrinking that takes giant proportions these days, you would have taken other political initiatives before pandemic. You would have taken care of this pandemic nightmare with viruses and mutations to reduce subgenicity significantly, and you would have arranged to eliminate the huge migration wave of our new scientists from abroad. You would have supported the islanders, our islands and their economy. You would have created a radically different environment in more favourable conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, if we make a friendly visit, for example, to the adjacent islands in my area, in Irekousa, in the Ottomans, in Mathraki, we will all understand that from a population point of view we are living in war situations. The crisis of the coronary pandemic came and hit mainly the populations and regions of the country with greater sensitivity and less protection and they are not the islands and islands. They are areas that are directly dependent on tourism and in which the pandemic has given the final blow. Instead of beating themselves with interest and substance above the problem, you are operating through horizontal joint decisions, without understanding the reality that is clear. No, Minister, today you cannot equate the gas seller, the taxi driver, the restaurant in Corfu with that of Kozani or the shoe dealer in Rhodes with the shoe dealer in Florinna or in Trikala. All the economic activities of the islands were affected unevenly compared with those of the similar companies in the mainland, as tourism suffered the greatest blow from the pandemic. Instead of taking advantage of the insularity of our country, instead of shielding our islands from the pandemic, instead of putting the burden of protection against the thorough control of their populations due to the moderate entrance gates due to the islandity, we also dropped them - the islands - and all the other regions in the same bag. Horizontal measures for all. You closed your eyes to the advantages that our islands have and which we could use in the pandemic that we are experiencing. Small-scale societies, measured entrance gates and therefore, far easier to control. I fear that with the dimensions that the pandemic receives every day that if you do not take immediate measures now, the situation in island Greece will deteriorate and the population figures will not simply be concentrated or minimised. It'll be almost nonexistent. Ladies and gentlemen, on the Greek islands it is urgent and necessary to take specific measures to ensure cohesion with mainland Greece. These measures should be weighted by taking, inter alia, criteria relating to demographic, social, economic, geostrategic and may relate, inter alia, to rationalisation of the islands' transport links, reduced rates of taxation, the availability of resources for strengthening health and education infrastructures, strengthening labour, entrepreneurship. For our islands, we need targeted sectoral measures, but also regional programmes to strengthen employment and entrepreneurship, modernise and upgrade businesses, not shaped in logic and indicators that are tailored to the mainland's data, but with specially formulated criteria. We have seen the failure of the programme of support for small and very small enterprises affected by the pandemic, where many businesses in tourism, services and commerce have not finally been able to join the funds although they have been more affected by other manufacturing firms. Because the specific resources of the aid programmes were not distributed as they should. The programme did not have the characteristics of an island region but had the characteristics of the region of Central Macedonia. Ladies and gentlemen, the economy of the islands is fragile, let alone a pandemic, when tourism, which is the main biopolitic activity of the islands, has now plunged. It is therefore necessary to adopt a comprehensive plan that will support their islands and people with specific political and targeted measures. We must and must make a point of reference for our policy and a clear message, if you wish, to the local communities of our islands from the remote, I would say that I, as an Athenian state, have a direct reduction in the VAT rate throughout the island, but also the reduced rates of taxation for the small islands, taking account of their specificities. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the focus sector is threatened with extinction. Unemployment is escalating and gaining long-term characteristics now. Thousands of fellow citizens who are active in professions related to tourism, thousands of businesses around tourism and foodstuff suddenly see their property lost from the disastrous consequences of the pandemic. There is now a change in policy. We need clear solutions and clear answers. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, before it's too late, put people over the economy and not the economy over the people. Implement another human-centered policy that will start and end up in man. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u349	Thank you too, Mr. Biagi, because you were consistent in time. Mr Ioannis Pashalidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is part of the enormous effort made by the government to normalise the effects of the health crisis which has hit almost all sectors of the economy. And it may indeed be an unresolved puzzle, but it turns out that in this great trial the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and the staff of the Ministry of Finance, which are due a lot of congratulations on the inconvenience they have given for many months, have responded well. The first part of this draft law contains 25 articles concerning the performance of the General Censuses of the year 2021 by the Hellenic Statistical Authority, since 2021 is a year of population census. The population, housing and buildings censuses are conducted every decade to collect data on the country's building wealth, as well as demographic, economic and social characteristics of the population, as part of the country's national, European and international obligations. In fact, inventories will be carried out in all the Member States of the European Union. This year's census may be the most interesting, as it will take place in the shadow of the coronary pandemic, but after a decade of economic recession that led to a massive migration, especially young people. At the same time, the decade since the previous census was a period that markedly increased migration and refugee flows towards our country. After all, 2021 will be a key year for the Hellenic Statistical Authority in the field of censuses, as it will largely become digital. This is because although the carrying out of the residential census was designed to be carried out by the traditional method, i.e. by collecting data with questionnaire forms, the exceptional conditions created by the pandemic imposed the adjustment of the original design and the electronic self-regulatory of households and where this is not possible, the collection of data will be conducted by an interview by telephone or by a physical presence in compliance with public health protection measures. The second part of the draft law contains provisions aimed at normalising the effects of the economic crisis. In particular, Articles 26 and 27 provide that the employee of a professional roof is to be exempted entirely from the payment of a lease in January and February 2021. The lessor will receive from the state budget, as tax-free, 80% of the rent if he is a natural person and 60% if he is a legal person. In addition, Article 28 provides facilitations for the payment of several securities, i.e. cheques, exchanges and stamps on an order. This arrangement includes enterprises that have been closed in a state order because of their pandemic and whose activity falls within the relevant CARs. The reference value and Article 29 of this article, given that for the first time the State will cover fixed costs of the affected enterprises, i.e. fixed current costs, as detailed in the relevant circular of the Ministry of Finance. The next article includes financial support arrangements for our national air carrier, AEGEAN, who suffered a very significant loss of revenue due to the huge reduction in passenger traffic. With regard to the third part of the draft law, which contains thirteen articles, I would like to mention the provision in Article 33, on the basis of which amounts relating to agricultural aid and subsidies may now be declared in the year of their recovery in order to avoid the submission of large volumes of amending declarations and to facilitate farmers, and the relative provision of incomes obtained from agricultural aid and subsidies for the tax year 2021, which are, however, the year 2020, exempted from the special solidarity contribution provided for in Article 43A of the Code of Income Tax. The next article deals with problems encountered by retrospectively substituting the normal VAT scheme for farmers under the special scheme under Article 41 of the VAT Code in 2018, 2019 and 2020 due to the collection of subsidies exceeding EUR 5,000. An additional measure is being taken by Article 35 to support companies affected by the pandemic, which concerns the two-month extension of the excise duty, VAT and other charges relating to alcoholic beverages, but also alcoholic products. This provision is proposed in order to address the financial problems arising from the suspension of operation of catering shops. To sum up, I would like to stress that this bill is another step towards strengthening businesses, professionals and people in the primary sector, who have basically been affected by the pandemic. We hope that, with such bills, which include a large number of relief measures, we will be able to overcome this great test with as few social and economic implications as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, too. Mr Ioannis Giolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the General Census Bill, in which provisions and regulations have been added to address the impact of the Coronary Pandemic. It is undeniable that the inadmissibility, the inappropriate and consistent application of the necessary preventive measures, the retreats and ambiguities of the government have contributed to the occasional exacerbation of the pandemic. Some, however, and abstract arrangements to deal with the consequences of the economy, are lacking in a consistent and well-designed implementation of the measures necessary to strengthen the affected layers of society, particularly of workers, small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed persons, as well as of poor people's classes. For big businessmen and capital, however, the crisis that followed with the adoption of the measures you have taken has been a great opportunity to strengthen them, namely to increase their profitability while reducing the fundamental rights of workers in a climate of health insecurity and fear, which, at the same time, boasted under constant measures of authoritarianism, police sovereignty and circumvention of basic freedoms, individual and social rights of the people and young people. The inconsistencies, oligories and shortcomings to ensure the health of society bear the signature of your Government. Let me read to you on this point what the President of the Hospital Doctors said the other day, Mrs Pagoy. "In pandemics there is always a third wave. The aim is to pass it as painlessly as possible, to evaluate the data every day, to take care of public transport - there is a great risk - and to carry out a lot of tests." He mentioned exactly what the New Democracy Government did not do. Firstly, the third wave did not exist in your predictions, nor as a rapprochement. Hence the need to amend the budget. Secondly, your only intervention to ensure more, necessary means of public transport where, as has been said, there is a great risk of transmission of the virus, which was three hundred private used buses from Leipzig - the ones that did not have a standard of urbanization, thus increasing, rather than solving, problems. Thirdly, as far as the tests are concerned, you have not covered them either as an absolute number, nor have they been targeted at closed structures, factories, schools, prisons, etc. You were only confined to random measurements, that is, methodology, which concealed the true picture of dispersal in society, a supply and a weapon for infectious people. As a whole, you have not sanitaryly shielded the country, you have shown provocative negligence and amnesty in dealing with the second wave with your unwisely tactics of opening borders, resulting from an example of a safe country coming to Europe's'red zone' with the minimum health protection. It wasn't the citizens' fault. The mistakes were yours and, unfortunately, they are repeated. The result of all this has been the imposition of multiple lockdown - physarmony - with disastrous consequences for many productive units and businesses, and certainly for the world of work and culture. The public debt is close to 210% of GDP, unemployment reaches 18.9% - apart from the secret - the highest in the European Union and the primary deficit is 7.2%. As an antidote you are presenting the crowd of our affected fellow citizens to the suffering of the drop, as well as the budgetary and tax arrangements of this bill. What does it mean to the businessman and the self-employed to suspend his obligation to pay his checks? That is to say, in April, when other tax and insurance obligations have increased, and thus accumulate old and new debts. Only by reducing private debt, which came from the time of the pandemic and provided for the gradual return, may they be able to take some breath. The proposed measures are incomplete, temporary and are not provided on an equal basis. The pessimism for micro-enterprises, as the President of GSEI, Mr Kavathas, carried it to the committee, is indicative. According to the information from the Institute of GSE - as he told us - eight out of ten companies recorded a significant reduction in their turnover in 2020. One out of two small and medium-sized enterprises has some kind of overdue public debt, insurance funds, suppliers, banks, half of them have cash in cash for no more than a month, and one out of four has no cash in cash, six out of ten fear that they will close the next period and four out of ten that they will close the next month as it goes. "The situation in special sectors like focus is tragic. More than half of the companies have public debts, insurance funds, banks and suppliers. Most of the companies are in a state of intubation and what we are observing is that we are opening up oxygen." And Mr Kavathas concludes, saying that 'There is a possibility of suspending and cutting the debts arising from the pandemic'. However, this is not the case, Minister. Small and medium-sized farmers see half the crops destroyed by hails, frosts, floods, and the rest undisclosed due to subtraction of trade. They waited for a decent way of financial support, in vain. The people of culture have become fierce and tourism has been declining, with no real positive prospects for the next summer. These categories of our fellow citizens in particular need immediate financial support, otherwise economic tolerance and their poorness will be hampered. Gentlemen of the government, take the essential and socially just measures to save workers and small and mediumsized groups. If you can't or don't want to, think of how to escape. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u353	We are also grateful for Mr Giola's time management. I give the floor now to the SYRIZA Member - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Christos Giannoulis. With the clock next door!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u354	And electronic watch, Mr. President. I put it next to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u355	Even better the e-mail! Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u356	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members very much before they go on and those who are missing in designations, crises and criticisms of opposition as the sole argument, let them look at what is happening around the government, the Mitsotakis and the ministers. I believe that today's conclusion is a phrase: 'A little more serious and more respect for those facing enormous problems would not be harmed', Apostle Djijkostas, candidate President of the New Democracy, the Region of Central Macedonia, in response to the Vice-President of the New Democracy and the Minister of Development - many parentheses, we now say - Adoi Georgiadis. I repeat: 'A little more seriousness and a little more respect for those facing enormous problems would not be harmed', addressing the same Minister, who has been given an arrogant and merciless requesting the keys of the affected businessmen and employees of the focus, the same person who, just before a teleconferencing with the representatives of the people's markets, confirmed yet another disgraceful economic decision on the people's markets, where the producer's right is lost and assigned to any mediator, supermarket, great store to secure a bench on the popular markets. Whether it's about "Aegean" with the 120 million or about the benches of the people's markets, one single doctrine: What can we assemble, tooling the pandemic, to private, friends, sponsors and friendly objectors who represent certain interests. I would like to make three remarks, Mr President, with full respect. You have at the same time - I am addressing the government - a large number of police forces to deal with students for a bill in which people have again reacted from the inflatables of the New Democracy, perhaps of the healthy, centralised, truly centre-right party, in the education bill. Buffalo, Fortsakis and others. Well, for Papa, I'm not talking about, you won't find him. You're not looking for him or you won't find him. At the same time, what happened with the Rabbit, where while you show a huge amount of study to deal with students, who are rightly complaining and falsely accusing us of calling for gatherings, what happened to the Rabbi who still enjoys immunity in the European Parliament, why did two thousand unambiguous pages actually come to Brussels saying 'You have more time to waste it'? I will close the three remarks, and with a praise to my colleague, Mrs Euphriou, who is perhaps the only member of the New Democracy who felt the need to speak self-critically to the government and critically on the issue of focusing on businessmen, who are one of the cases of hundreds of thousands of people left alone. I would like to turn, Mr President, to the parliamentary representative, Mr Brutsi, who has sprayed us, has fought with us in a strong sense that we are putting arguments in our speeches as well. Immediately afterwards he proceeded with an account, which was obviously failed, because he was expelled from his ministry as the Minister of Labour. It was reconstructed, excuse me, so it wouldn't be considered insulting. It proceeded with a statement by the Ministry of Labour in a bill which I do not imagine contains topics and, indeed, a statement confirming the reasons why it was removed from this ministry. But he fought us and even moved our fingers, what are we going to vote, with an interrogator's or judge's style: "What are you going to do about it? What will you do for him?’ Can he answer what finally happened with the retired ECA retireds who would return to help the thousands of pensions that increased over his term of office to be awarded to the retired? Can he comment on whether he agrees with the new policy of the Minister who succeeded him, Mr Hatzidakis, the mediator of the New Democracy in the major companies? Remember the "Olympian" and the others. What about hiring a private manager and why don't you just award the right to four hundred graduates who could well as soon as tomorrow morning get pensions to the ECA? Of course, for 'AEGEAN', which you are subsidizing with 120 million, I would like to remind you that Mr Chatzidakis, when he was self-sufficient in saying that he relieved Greeks from her rocks 'Olympic', to remind him that he contributed to the creation of a monopoly, oligopoly - a monopoly which only... (It doesn't sound because of a bad connection)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u357	You don't sound, Mr. Giannoulis. Did you press the microphone and shut it down? You don't sound. You did something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u358	Now can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u359	Yeah, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u360	Well, I want to close, saying that some time ago New Democracy MPs, Mr. Markopoulos, who constantly has the fantasy that SYRIZA only deals with the case of Kufontina, accused me of saying that your criminal inaction in the eight months that have taken place has resulted in many of our lives being lost. Now I will add that your criminal cowardice and ambiguity kills the economy, not only because of "AEGEAN" and all that I mentioned, because they have already entered the catering area of Thessaloniki. The same goes for tourism. The same is true of workers in culture. The same is true of freelance professionals. You are criminalizing and murdering the middle class, which, with a load of lies you misled to come to the polls and choose you, considering SYRIZA was the cause and reason for all the suffering. Let me give you another example and close with that, Mr President. "I save by house", a program that opened and closed in fifteen minutes, a program to stimulate the economy and there is no shame. You are accusing us of tabling many proposals, but we are not costing them. Decide what you want. We put forward proposals costly, "the arrogance and poetry overshadow them all." You do not want to accept that you are forced to implement what has been said four and five months earlier, so that both health and the economy have the results we have experienced. And unfortunately, I want to conclude with an appeal. Stop investing in ambiguity, fear and ambiguous assessments. You panic, you terrorize people, and they're in despair and they don't know what to do. When one disagrees with the schools, when the other disagrees with the focus or with the market, and the world is hovering in a void that you create. And finally, rule. It is not your fault that the Opposition on the bad results you achieve is not your fault. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr. Giannoulis. As Mr Kotsos does not listen to us, we move to SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Malama Sunday. Mrs Malama, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, Mr President, I will be brief. We are now being called upon to discuss a bill, which is supposed to relieve the market, the professionals, the taxpayers. A bill that one would expect to conform to the size of the problems faced by the Greek economy because of the pandemic, but also because of the government's management. Sadly, however, this bill comes to institutionalize very little and too late for professionals. It could be said that more the government seems to want to take away the keys, as the Minister of Development said, and less to help them stay up in the future. We have heard in committee the Members and majority ministers triumph about the measures they are supposed to offer on the market. Unfortunately, the truth is far from being presented to us. Small and medium-sized enterprises, individual businesses, self-employed people are on the verge of collapse and are literally outraged by these triumphs of the government. For one year you have been telling you that on the one hand you are shutting down and on the other hand the fixed shops are running, currents, bills, bank charges, surcharges and so much more, and you have been doing so for so long that you do not listen to them. Today you are telling us that you will cover some of these fixed costs, but you are referring to a future joint ministerial decision on this, as we say. And we ask you in particular: What will this measure cover? Since when are you going to join this? How much money will you make available for this heading and what form will this grant have? Is it going to be a loan like a repayable deposit? Will you rule out the little ones again? Will those who are in'red' areas receive more than 6 o'clock in the afternoon? No answer from this particular bill. We heard the Minister of Development a few days ago swinging the finger on professionals and telling them that they are badly speaking because he has given them repayable advances. I would like to mention the following example. Individual business in Halkidiki with an employee from the focus sector was excluded from the first three repayable advances, received 3,500 thousand euros from the fourth and now in the fifth cycle it received 1,000 euros. And I ask you: what will this man first pay for a thousand euros for two months and, above all, what will he eat? So all you do and dare and triumph is to charge the microprofessional loans to eat, loans to survive, for months, literally for months, without income. And as if not all of this is enough, you are now putting 3,000 fines on the professional and 300 euros fines on any customer in order to pick up the package outside the store. So, to figure out where he had to wait? Opposite? On the sidewalk? The State Secretary for Civil Protection is not at all ashamed to say roamingly in an interview with him that his wife still loves him, even though he closed her gym. But, well, doesn't anyone feel a little shy? Are you being held by Maria Antoinette's syndrome? You are hostile, gentlemen, and aggressive towards the citizen who is literally struggling to live and do what goes through your hand to make the life of society difficult. Let me also put forward some thoughts on how you manage the pandemic. You've fallen into a trap of confusion. On the day you open schools, the same day you put the whole prefecture in'red'. Close the retail trade, open it by click away, then close it again to open it with the timer, and at the end of the day close it again and don't think, for example, what happens to those who have put in a vulnerable commodity? Don't you think of the florist, say, who was forced to throw away his florist products from his refrigerator three times this month? To this professional, you will charge him a trade charge and tax advance, without worrying about it, even making fun of him in shredded, stylized interviews in the media. I would also like to raise this issue, which concerns too many professionals in particular of the focus and not only in Halkidiki, but also in Central Macedonia as a whole. You have made a 150 million allocation available from the Region of Central Macedonia for the INTERXIS programme, a programme of non-repayable support to professionals. For some reason, two out of three professionals were literally thrown out and, in particular, catering businesses. What about these people? What are you telling them? Should they be completely shut down? Give you their keys, too? He said the Minister of Development would not give anything and that they have already taken too much. Is that the government's overall position? You will have to answer us, say it now for people to know, because in a short time when the elections are coming, you will start running from a café to a café, which will be open - a few - and you will also be asking for votes. In conclusion, I would also like to refer to a regulation that you are making on property in land in Laureate, which is characterised as public land, but there are owners within those who have, in all respects, legitimate titles for their real estate. You are trying to find a solution to this issue, but you have not dealt with the region of Sykia Halkidiki, which, for historical reasons, is facing the same problem. We have dealt with you through parliamentary control too many times with this issue a year and a half now, and we do not see a solution on the horizon. We ask you: When will you resolve the issue of ownership titles in Sykia Halkidiki? The problem continues to keep the local society and the local economy hostage to bureaucracy and hundreds of owners await your answers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, too. The New Democracy MP, George Kotsos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u364	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to point out that by listening to SYRIZA Members, they would say that they are literally living in a parallel universe. It is no accident that their society has turned their backs, which are popularly enslaved, because, from what is evident, a lack of political perception and action, they are trying to catch the coroner from the hair in order to formulate an opposition speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u365	Do you say that to Gigicosta, Mr. Comrade? Is Djijkosta a poll too?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u366	It's for you, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u367	Mr. Giannoulis, turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u368	Because I know that Djijkostas was a candidate for the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u369	Mr. Giannoulis, excuse me, but that's not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u370	In order to make a opposition speech, they do not understand that society trusts fully both the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, ranking him as the most appropriate Prime Minister and even the second one. Shouldn't that have troubled him? Shouldn't you have been worried about the tactic you're following? Or does anyone forget the tactic you had in May, when you said all the money that the government would give to deal with the financial consequences of the pandemic as if it hadn't existed tomorrow? So imagine, if our Government had followed these practices, outdated, spent tactics, where would the country have been today? However, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, despite the fact that you want to present a 'black' environment, in 2021 it will be a milestone for our country. First, we are two hundred years from the Greek Revolution, the national regeneration and the creation of the new Greek state, but at the same time our country now comes out with dignity in the markets, faces international society and I am sure that at the end of 2021 we will have won the battle of pandemic. We are therefore called upon, in a very difficult environment, which has been created because of the international spread of the pandemic, to measure the data, to assess the situations and, above all, to draw up a strategic plan by tomorrow and not by the krone of opposition or by the coronary. Politics, in order to be truly beneficial to the citizen, should respond to the changes in society and be adapted to the data that are made every time, with quick reflexes, as does the Government of the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis. And so the government reacts to both the health crisis and the natural phenomena, which have occasionally affected various regions of our country. I tell you this on account of the fact that in Carditsa, my home country, which suffered enormous damage from 'January', the government machine, the government mechanism, worked perfectly, quickly, directly and effectively, in compensation for the maximum speed of farmers, professionals and residents. Of course, the memories of both Mandra and Eye are very close to remembering how quickly the citizens who have suffered great damage or how quickly the government mechanism has reacted. Whether they like it or do not want the SYRIZA Members, the New Democracy is next to the citizen, it is next to the people in need of the government, with key interventions, with strategic planning, restructuring and whatever is needed to keep society up. The government's main concern is first of all to ensure...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u371	Well, not having elections then, having a survey.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u372	This is the first time, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u373	Mr. Giannoulis, excuse me, but what you're doing is unacceptable. It's been the first time, and I'm very sorry! Not leaving the speaker is unacceptable! Please, because I can expel you from the circuit. What you're doing has never happened before! Mr. Coché, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u374	It is their concern, Mr President, that you do not mislead them. That is why we are coming today, with this bill, which shows how we, the New Democracy, the Government of New Democracy, are practically supporting businesses, the labour force and the Greek society. You will certainly remember what some of the antipopulation said a few months ago. They were predetermined or, if you want, they would pay off new memos, new surveillance. Did that happen? They've been misled. The modern Cassandras, who are trying to discover delays and delays, will now be disproved. The Government of New Democracy reacts quickly, is alert and has, in particular, a plan to deal with even the most difficult situations. Included in this plan is the general inventory of 2021 ELSTAT, which is an important tool, which will provide us with useful data and information, economic data, social data, demographic data, in order to evaluate and formulate the respective policies for Greece tomorrow. So our decisions will be global and we will be able to strengthen all the sectors of the economy and, above all, those of particular need, such as agriculture and livestock, which are the main pillars of our country's development. Our government attempts and succeeds in alleviating the economic consequences of the coronary pandemic and incarceration experienced by businesses. We are helping practically businesses, workers and exempting businesses from the rents of January-February, for their benefit and above all, in our efforts to keep them upright, we provide facilities for the payment of the cheques of the firms affected. Innovation, too, is the direct coverage of the fixed current costs of the affected enterprises, and indeed from March 2020. So we've been breathing back to business since the moment the pandemic started. An important point of the bill is the discharge of the special solidarity levy on incomes obtained from agricultural aid and subsidies for the tax year 2021. At the same time, we facilitate the transfer of farmers from the special VAT arrangements. With all this, is it not understandable, ladies and gentlemen, that we are stressing entrepreneurship, supporting businesses and trying to keep the economy up and, of course, we are not hiding, as others have once done, the problem under the carpet? Ladies and gentlemen, what our society sees above all - because SYRIZA colleagues do not want to see reality in the face, although the reality is ruthless to them - our government is responding to the problems with real and substantial solutions and, above all, does not invest in communication tricks. We're leaving this for others. The repayable advance is granted to enterprises and is a significant aid, as is the case with the millions of euros for the heating allowance, and not an oil premium as previously given, supporting households and businesses again. Our government's manipulations are also positively reflected in international markets. It is not a random example of the recent exit made by the Greek State with the ten-year bond, where registrations exceed EUR 25 billion. If nothing else, is this not a sign of trust and faith to the Greek Government?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u375	Please close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u376	I would like to assure all my fellow Members, but especially the Greeks and Greeks, that the New Democracy will continue to work with a plan, with efficiency, with a view to creating Greece tomorrow, to overcoming the best possible omens in this difficult period that we are running and standing up and looking at the future with optimism. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, too. Mr. Constantine Boubas has the floor now. All that's going to be open is Mr. Booba's microphone. They create a problem with the acoustics of open microphones. The microphone will be opened when you're given the word. Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u378	Thank you very much, Mr President, from the burning Serres Prefecture - because tomorrow we are preparing a great agricultural mobilisation - twenty-two cotton-producing farms are on the ravages. And I'm saying that why? Speaking of numbers, we have two million seven hundred sixty thousand acres of cotton in Greece. There are forty - five thousand nine hundred twenty - eight cotton producers in despair. The new Republic is giving a message that the institutions have started. Instruments in the primary sector, in the plain and in the mountains, were started, because farmers are really desperate, as pandemic has increased their production costs, has reduced their production and prices. They've suffered 25% damage. Despite promises, therefore, they are forced to go on the road, because they need to overcome bureaucratic issues with the OPECE. As a Greek Solution, we have raised the question and are waiting for an answer from the relevant ministries. They are troubled by many for things that are not essential and with many fines. I now come to this register we are talking about today and through ELSTAT, the notorious register of farmers to see the pure-bred farmers. Near dry land is being burned and green at the moment, gentlemen, as far as a register of farmers is concerned, we expect it to be seen who clean farmers are, who are the real beneficiaries and who they are unfair. Also, agricultural oil, as we speak numbers, did not even put it in the budget. And we're going to the big subsidisation issue. Question of the Greek Solution and Kyriakos Velopoulos about the 735 million euros that are now being cut each year by farmers' subsidies. Now you'll tell me that we could go to new crops, myrtillas, armies, horsebacks, Darwin's flower, collicine crocodile spoken by the President of Greek Solution. And we are talking about these herbs that can really give breath to the agricultural sector and innovative agricultural crops and get away from the subsidies and the GMDT Treaty which we have to tell farmers about sustainable imports from third countries. Where's the farm oil? Farmers need it. They are coming down tomorrow to indulge in a resolution of protests, in what you mentioned before, in a painful story, such as the agricultural production that is shrinking and should have the future in general with statistics, which should not be skinal, but which should be qualitative. I'm trying to see how many irrigated areas in Greece are. I can't find the exact numbers. Let's see how many areas have been cultivated at the moment by new crops, so that we know the supply and demand for new crops that can thrive, produce wealth in Greece. I can't find it. As far as livestock is concerned, we now have a country that is rural. 85.7% - statistics are - agricultural enterprises are family-friendly. 41% are rural women waiting for retirement. Yeah, but the numbers keep giving birth. The question is, however, if we want to have real quality characteristics on the ground, let us see, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what policy we will be drawing up for the next few years, to keep the farmer on the field, to keep the fisherman on his island, but also to declare the fishing zone which this deadline will be in one and a half months, so that he can move and develop his future. It is a lot of farmers' issues, but at the moment we are showing levels of unemployment skinally through ELSTAT. And I say this because there is the flexible work that the other man works three and four hours a week - not the day - and is considered a worker. Can we also have real evidence of the real unemployment that is plagued by the country? We can't have all this. As far as the legumes are concerned, that's all I'm gonna tell you, so I don't tire you with the numbers. We produce twenty - nine thousand tons and consume seventy thousand. The remaining tons come from Turkey. Now let's go talk about lignite, because today the numbers and ELSTAT are playing. The lignite in Greece can give 6.7 billion tons. The 3,3 could go for electricity production. Why am I saying that? Because we closed the "LARCO" and showed up yesterday six suitors. The Greek Solution is confirmed, gentlemen, because within them Mr. Daskalakis in "TERNA", here is the "TRAFIGURA" company, here is the other company that is based in Switzerland, to the ones that operate in Skopje and want to get the Medals in the Serbs of Kozani for the nickel and cobalt that are essential components needed for the batteries of the future. We've been talking to the House. The Greek Solution revealed that the "LARCO" and the champari will go to Skopje and we will not get it, to tell the catapult. This was shown yesterday by the invitation of interest to all six suitors. Let's see what happens with LARCO, Mr. Daskalakis and FENIS, in the town of Kavartsi, Skopje, because that's where the mines will be taken. [[Interconnection)...requests more electricity in honor, but its property in cobalt is $20 billion.]] (connection interrupt)...requests more electricity in honor, but its property in cobalt is $20 billion. And don't Mr. Hatzidakis tell us that we illegally gave the 130 million. No, ladies and gentlemen, there is the Vienna declaration from the eighteen countries of Europe's industry that produce raw materials that are useful for the old, so that it is not dependent on Asia, Russia and other continents that could be financed. Therefore, there is no penalty, in accordance with the 2015 Vienna Declaration. Let's go a little fast to 'Aegean'. I'm not going with numbers. I'll tell you two indicative numbers. The company had considerable profits, the landmark date. Who was that? In 2014 and 2013: EUR 66.3 million, 80.2 million. The purpose of the Aegean company ‘AEGEAN’, which accepts health certificates on the proposal of Mr Mitsotakis belonging to the International Air carrier, is until 2025 to serve 15 million passengers from the six million. Let me remind you that in 2013, Joaquin Almunia had said that this air carrier's monopoly would create a ticket cartel for Greek and foreign. What is a monopoly is damaging, gentlemen, and unfortunately since the merger and the 'Olympic' which entered a group, small airlines have disappeared somewhat. And this monopoly, whoever has it, does not cease to be a monopoly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u379	To conclude, Mr Buba, with one final sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u380	I shall conclude, Mr President. We want ELSTAT's data to be on the substance so that these numbers can be a driver, a pilot for how we plan. But unfortunately, we're talking about ELSTAT, and these elements are skinny. It's not about the substance. My example is in the primary sector that we as Greek Solution have presented to you a plan for how to develop the agri-food sector that is the future. The cotton producers are fighting tomorrow in Serres for their demands. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, too. Ms. Mera25, Ms. Constantina Adamou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. It is important before any debate on specific legislative interventions in the economy, to look at the situation in which it is found, as well as the history of the recent actions by the government that have led us to the current juncture. As the Greek economy has seen since the 2021 budget is characterised by great uncertainty which, as the government claims, is the result of the health crisis. It is good to recall that even long before the pandemic appeared, the country's economy had started to slow down. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2019, the economy was shrinking by 0.9% of the country's GDP, while in the first quarter of 2020 the decline rate was about 0.7% of GDP. Therefore, the uncertainty surrounding the course of our economy is not only the health crisis, but also the government's policies, which are deeply classic. A characteristic example of the class policy pursued in 2020 by the government is the provocatively unequal support for businesses. In other words, on the one hand, we have those that employ 90% of private workers, namely farmers, free traders, individual and medium-sized enterprises, which have been strengthened with around EUR 1.4 billion, and on the other hand we have the big companies, which only employ 10% of the workers. These companies were aided with EUR 3.7 billion. So we understand the classic difference in the aid granted by the government. It is therefore absolutely obvious that the Government should make available to finance large enterprises, while the small and medium-sized ones and households are in modulated between inadequate micro-subsidies, suspensions of labour contracts and temporary deferral of their obligations for the future. The management of the pandemic crisis in the spring of 2020 did not have a great deal of difficulty for the government, since our country is not a significant transit hub to and from European countries or third countries during this period. So, given the limitation of incoming potential vectors of the virus, the government simply by applying the World Health Organisation's instructions for using masks and imposing quarantines managed to keep at low levels - indeed - the patient's curve compared to the overall tests carried out. The anarchy, however, of opening the borders to facilitate the tourism sector and of relaxing the protection measures combined with avoiding mass tests and free of charge during the summer, as expected, have been the occasion of the outbreak of the second wave of the pandemic, which we have been experiencing so far. The Government, despite the recommendations of its own sanitary staff, the bodies and the cluster of counterpopulation since spring, has not shielded the National Health System with new officials. It did not provide for strengthening the adequacy of intensive care units in absolute numbers and logistical equipment and obviously did not invest in creating and establishing a well-structured primary care system. On the contrary, by applying the core of its policy, the government is strengthening the repression of social rights and investing in the communication management of the current political agenda with a view to limiting reactions due to the threatened economic and social desertification of our country. Once again, the support measures promoted by the government are inadequate for the small, medium-sized and workers, while, on the contrary, large companies will benefit from the beneficial arrangements with a more specific example, without conditions and criteria, the State aid of ‘AEGEAN’ with the sum of EUR 120 million. Given the delay in the influx of funds from the Recovery Fund, the way in which it is distributed to date is unclear, small and medium-sized enterprises are at a dead end due to the overcompensation of the debts created in the midst of the pandemic. Therefore, it is certain that the number of padlocks will be launched over the next period. As long as support measures for small and medium-sized enterprises are based on simple facilitations in moving the time for payment of debts and temporary suspensions of their obligations, the economy is in no way going backwards. If we want to see these businesses reopen and really rescue the range of bankruptcy, then it is a one-way road to deleting the debts of these enterprises that have accumulated during the pandemic crisis involving insurance funds, banks or municipalities. It is absolutely necessary to convert the repayable advance into a support grant, in line with European standards, so that small shops and small and medium-sized enterprises can survive. In particular, the focus sector which has been critically affected, but I want to believe, at the moment, reversible. In particular, this sector, the focus sector, apart from the workers subsidised with a modest allowance of EUR 534, has not been supported to any extent except in certain cases by entrepreneurs who have received repayable advances which, let us not forget, form a form of loans rather than subsidies. These enterprises shall not be saved with suspensions of payments and new loans but with actual support measures such as the non-refundable advance. In conclusion, I would like to dwell on Article 41 of this bill, which relates to the unpaid concession of the assets of the amateur HRAKLIs, to the Association of "New Gymnastics Association of Thessaloniki HRAKLIS 1908" and to the suspension of enforcement measures arising from looselines of the past administrations. I therefore welcome this decision because it justifies the long-term effort of the people of the club to ensure the survival of HRAKLES and is an example to be imitated of the power of vindication and of the fight for our values and ideals. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when public debt...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u383	Shut up. You said you were closing. You're over time. The clock doesn't look at it, it seems. I think you're closed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u384	What do you say, Mr. President? Do you close me while I'm not finished my proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u385	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u386	Nine minutes were spoken by the previous colleagues. You interrupted me in seven minutes and twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u387	Here you go. Finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u388	At a time when public debt has already spread to 220% of the country's GDP and the corresponding private debt is rapidly accumulated due to the limited and unequally distributed support for society and entrepreneurship by the government, the issue of the effects of pandemic on our economy must at last be tackled in a serious and responsible manner. Of course, our country's economic situation in recent years has affected our society in various ways. However, the mismanagement of our national economy over recent years has led to great insecurity for young people in future living conditions, has led to Brain drain and has therefore led to the ageing of the population, since our young people either emigrate or feel insecurity to create a family. These results translated into a significant exacerbation of fertility are expected to be clearly reflected in the population census of 2021. The government day after day has shown that it does not have a proper and fair strategic plan to stimulate our national economy. It moves on the basis of the facilities on a case-by-case basis, ignoring the big picture. Let the government be sure that society and democracy always find ways and tools to defend themselves against arrogance and political extinction. Thank you very much for your courtesy and attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u389	But you got away from time too much. I'll beg the others. The time given early is six minutes. I remind you. Put your watch next to you. Tolerance will go to seven minutes. I'll beg warmly. There's all the fatigue. The rapporteurs have been waiting here since the morning and they want the process to be completed. Now Mrs Chabika Iatridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u390	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the pandemic, the New Democracy Government, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Minister of Finance have quickly demonstrated reflexively with a sole commitment: no one will be left alone in this pandemic. And when the pandemic ends, we'll be ready with the least possible losses to start our economy and return to growth. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the government has taken important support measures since the beginning of the crisis for workers, entrepreneurs and those affected by this lot. This bill is another bill, and certainly not the last one, which comes to give solutions, strengthen our fellow citizens who need it. The solutions are the full discharge of the rental payment for the months of January and February for companies with a government mandate. At the same time, however, property owners are also supported, since, for the same months, 80% of the monthly rent for natural persons will be paid directly to their bank account and 60% for legal persons. Furthermore, the Government also proceeds to a substantial measure to support companies affected by the pandemic with the grant of fixed costs, which is irresponsible, tax-free and not offset by any debt. Furthermore, under Article 28 of the draft law, the extensions granted for the repayment of securities up to 30 April 2021 continue. These extensions concern tourist enterprises, something very important for the area I come from, the Dodecanese. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out the following. Tourism has kept our economy up in the conditions of the memoranda. Now tourism and seasonal enterprises accompanying it need further support. Therefore, in the expected joint ministerial decision to be adopted in application of Article 29 on the grant of fixed costs, account should be taken of the following: the definition of undertakings should not only be carried out through the CFP but, because of the seasonality of our companies in the Dodecanese, of the inclusion of businesses on the basis of their turnover. Include companies which have 50% of their turnover in the third quarter of the year - July, August - September - reduced. This regulation, after all, already existed in Law 4701. Mr Stagioras spoke just before his speech on special cases, and perhaps we should also look at this. I would also like to mention the focus on the Dodecanese, which is also of a major seasonal nature. Further ways of strengthening it should be considered by using specific financial instruments, where appropriate through NSRF or other means, with criteria that could be geographically and populationally. This also applies to our smaller islands with a population of a thousand permanent inhabitants. Ladies and gentlemen, before I close my speech I would like to refer to another issue on the Dodecanese which concerns the borrowers of the Dodecanese Cooperative Bank. Union of Dodecanese Partnership Lending Bank is already expected to be set up. The problem is well known. I have personally put it to both the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Bank of Greece. In the middle of a pandemic, we also need to find a solution for borrowers who trusted their place and to deal with the regulation and repayment of their loans, as is the case with systemic banks. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government and the Ministry of Finance have done a titular task to support people affected by the pandemic. We are next to society, next to the citizens. This is also demonstrated by this bill. Of course, the situation remains dynamic and many times unforeseen. But with planning, rational choices and looking into the future, I believe that we will overcome this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Mrs. Iatridis. With the economy in time you have given us the opportunity to follow the remaining Members. Mr. Catherides has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by mentioning the repeated incidents of violence against the New Democracy lately. We had the attack on a House of MPs, the Minister's office and now on a local organisation of the New Democracy here in Athens following previous attacks. It is obvious that some are disturbed by the policy of the New Democracy Government. Let me assure them that we will continue with even greater determination in implementing our election commitments and in dealing effectively with the multiple crises with which we are currently facing. After all, our policy enjoys the confidence of the majority of the Greek people, while all democratic citizens are being expelled and condemned wherever they come from. Ladies and gentlemen, we will shortly conclude the debate and vote on the bill of the Ministry of Finance on additional measures to support the economy. I will not go into this in detail because the previous speakers, and of course the Minister for Finance, have done so. Allow me, however, to make a few points: While we are discussing the possibility of a third wave of the coronary pandemic, Europe is already being scanned by this. The central left government of Portugal makes dramatic calls to its European partners for assistance and transport of COVID patients to hospitals in Europe, as those of Portugal have been forgotten by patients and the situation has escaped from any control. Also, while Greece has submitted a comprehensive and detailed action plan to make use of the resources of the European Reconstruction Fund, the neighbouring Italy that has received the most, close to 30% of all the additional European funds, is once again plagued by a profound government crisis which doubts its participation in disbursing European funding. Both of these examples from southern Europe show that, despite the difficulties, Greece is better facing the pandemic crisis. However, European aid remains critical. And here I want, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to be clear. The prolongation of the pandemic makes the aid of 750 billion completely inadequate. At a time when the United States is discussing a $1.9 trillion budgetary package that will bring total budgetary expansion to 6 trillion dollars, the counter-compensation with Europe is depressing. Europe has paid dearly for the narrow-mindedness and obsessions of some during the euro crisis. The development distance from China and the United States was widened at the expense of Europe as a whole in previous years. And the European south paid for these obsessions even more expensive. Already the forecasts for 2021 and 2022 are extremely sloppy for Europe as a whole in relation to the rapid recovery of the United States and even more of China. It is therefore more than ever imperative that we now demand even more resources and solidarity at European level and, of course, rapid disbursement of the existing and agreed resources. In conclusion, I would like to say that what has been made clear in today's debate, at least until now, is the acute political problem of the country which has to do with the absence of a well-founded opposition to realistic policy proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, neither the screams nor the destruction nor the investment in failure are documented nor a realistic alternative to the budget pluralism according to which the policy is based on a numerical multiplication, that is to say, every one billion that the government gives to propose two and three oppositions. So we're not going anywhere. After ten years of crisis and the painful experience with the delusions of SYRIZA's illusions, no one should believe that he can make fun of citizens with "leaf trees". As long as SYRIZA is caught in its one-digit core, the country will continue to be deprived of a governmental alternative. But, the more necessary, especially in today's age of acute crises, it is an effective New Democracy government, another so useful would be a serious opposition that does not exist today. Having a net budgetary extension, which exceeds 15% of GDP in twelve months, an unprecedented percentage, it is out of place and time to blame us for neoliberalism and social analgesia, as we have easily heard today in this Chamber. We know that money is limited and that today's loans will be called upon to repay it by tomorrow's generations and that no funding can replace the lost turnover and the destruction of Lockdown. However, this time, the priority is to save productive fabric and jobs, but also to move forward with the reforms that will enable us to take advantage of the new opportunities that the post-COVID world will bring with the digitisation of the state, the upgrading of education, the new capital pillar of insurance, major public projects and the creation of an attractive private environmental investment. Our management course so far makes us optimistic on the next day that he will soon be coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mr. Catherides, and the economy of time. Mr. George Mulkiotis of the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin today's speech on the tragic last night's incident with the loss of the sixteen-year-old student in Thebes. We express our grief and condolences to the family and wish her nursing parents quickly to return home. Our area is in Lockdown since 8 January. We find that the viral load is not reduced to Thebe. Something is wrong and we must not put it all over the people and individual responsibility. For example, after yesterday's finding that a student at the 4th Thevas High School found themselves positive to the coronary, direct tracking was requested in the department where the case was found. Also, from today the sixth grade of the 6th grade of Thevas will be closed until February 15th, as there is the student’s brother of the 4th grade who was also found positive. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, the tracking we requested according to the EGE is not provided on the basis of the Autumn 2020 protocols that also apply to cases in schools. It should be noted that these protocols have not been updated to address the current reality data. We believe that the students of a department in which a case is found should undergo a test under the responsibility of the EGE, as well as the teachers who had contact with this department. Once again, Mr President, the government is sloppy to leave the disciples, teachers and their families in God’s mercy. Finally something must do, make a proper design for effective and proper tracking that is the major issue today and which is not done. Another point I wish to raise concerns the hospitals in Boeotia. It is the great shortage of doctors, but also of nurses and paramedical staff, which leads to the non-exploitation of the existing medical equipment, as well as the great fatigue that has occurred to the existing staff from every day's efforts to deal with the growing incidents of the pandemic and we thank them very much. Mr President, on this subject and the bill we want to say that it comes to us directly: at the beginning of the 21st century Greece is a reality which in the coming years will require further investigation and planning with a view to alleviating disparities in death, as well as dealing with the suspensive factors which make it difficult for individuals to grow up. I am saying this because the 2021 census among other important elements will record a population reduction. And we have to know what is due to draw conclusions on what it is that can reflect social and economic reality, the class structure of Greek society and especially those who choose to leave abroad. In other words, we need both qualitative and quantitative characteristics if we really are interested in shaping and implementing a serious demographic policy for our country. In addition to some positive but very fragmentary measures, the government has not so far shown that it has a holistic strategic plan to tackle the demographic problem. After nineteen months in power, while ignoring the proposals of the Change Movement for Demographic Policy, did it very simply do what? He managed to transfer the General Secretariat of Family Policy and Gender Equality from the Ministry of Home Affairs to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by updating the Secretary-General to the State Secretary-General's level without however entrusting it with legislative initiative. Indeed, the Deputy Minister itself yesterday admitted that the government's family policies until now were limited to a fragmentary measure of aesthetic nature - I repeat fragmentary measures of aesthetic nature - and did not deliver the expected results. This is what the Undersecretary says, as well as that the government in nineteen months has done nothing and that it will soon bring the first steps to address the demographic problem. In other words, one year after the birth allowance, which we voted on, the New Democracy Government is again saying 'will' again. If now, ladies and gentlemen of the House, the 2021 census does not give us specific quantitative and qualitative criteria for the Brain phenomenon, for how many people have left, how many have returned and what are their characteristics, it will unfortunately be another opportunity to design our productive and scientific potential. If also the 2021 census does not give us specific quantitative and qualitative criteria for the standard of living and the real situation of buildings, another opportunity will be lost to design a serious housing policy, but also to prevent poverty. I shall conclude, Mr President, by referring to the interpretative provision in accordance with the special management procedure referred to in Article 77 of the draft law. I would like to say that the proposed regulation in so far as it upgrades the privileges of labour requirements in derogation from those in force in Articles 156 of the Banking Code and 977 of the Code of Civil Procedure is obviously positive and welcome. However, I would like to say that it introduces an obvious discrimination in favour of only one category of workers, namely those employed by companies under special management, as opposed to a large majority of workers who are subject to huge amounts of paid and due compensation and who continue to be subject to the unfavourable regime of drawbacks of the Banking Code and the Code of Civil Procedure referred to above. In other words, according to the legislation and regulation in force both in the Banking Code and in the Code of Civil Procedure when claims are in place - that is, rights guaranteed - such as the annexation to labour requirements, then these first claims with the privileges are met by up to 65% and the labour requirements come to 25% together with the EBRD and VAT. This is an unfavourable treatment and an unfavourable discrimination. In other words, workers are classified for a minimum of money, as they have left it, Mr President, we all understand it - 25% - must be satisfied both by the ECA and the Greek public. The proposed regulation for reasons of equality and equal treatment and legal certainty during the Change Movement must therefore be extended to all workers involved in bankruptcy or enforcement proceedings against the employer at least as regards compensation for dismissal. Since it was not impossible for us today to legislate in today's process to favour a single portion of workers, this cannot be done by the House when the majority of them are actually waiting for crustaceans if they ever become the distribution tables. And after that, and thanks to the equitableness and justice that I have said, Mr President, we are calling for the amendment tabled by the Change Movement to be accepted, with a general number of 737 and a special 111, so that the provisions of Article 40 of the draft law which is voted on are also applicable to the pending and new bankruptcy procedures with regard to workers' claims for compensation as a result of a termination of the contract of employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Mr Mulkiotis. From what we see in the system, Mr. Kurublis is not connected. His computer's not connected to the microphone. His microphone's in trouble. If any of his partners hear us, let's try to fix it, and we'll come back. Now the New Democracy MP, Mr. Xenophobiakos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u396	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the health crisis, the Government of New Democracy and the leadership of the Ministry of Finance have committed itself to the Greeks that the state will stand by and support the affected households and businesses for as long as necessary. The Greek economy in a period of strong shocks on a global scale where insecurity and uncertainty dominate shows endurance and durability. Every month that economic activity is postponed we experience a high-voltage loss of national capital, every month Lockdown deprives more than three billion euros of revenue from the state. Nevertheless, we can look to the future with optimism and above all we are optimistic without delusion. This is because we have stayed in a wise design of financial aid with prudence and fair distribution of resources to those who have suffered the greatest consequences. Therefore, instead of giving in to dangerous populism sirens that have been reluctant to cry for everything since the first month, we now have the confidence and by the mouth of the Minister of Finance to be ready and equipped to bear as long as the pandemic lasts. And today, ladies and gentlemen, we come to reassure our compatriots that the state is the front in this critical battle. We have been voting for many months on economic aid, tax relief, funding and subsidies. In the same context, we are looking at the appropriate methodology and the request of entrepreneurs for the 50% non-refundable advance of one, two and three, so that we can give all the impetus they will need to regain rolls. On the front of our policy the most effective management of the economic crisis, we do not ignore the needs of entrepreneurs, the struggles of neighborhood shops, the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed. Human life is our unnecessarily high priority. Work, employment and entrepreneurship are our lasting concern. On Tuesday, we have just disbursed our second instalment of EUR 728 million from the 'SURE' European programme to support work, completing the EUR 2.7 billion package that we have received in recent years. Already, we have made a request to the European Commission for additional funds to be made available. For every job that can be saved, we will make a hard effort not to lose one's job. The lending of 3.5 billion euros last week with the issue of ten-year bonds, with the historically low interest rate of 0.8%, is a strong and reliable vote of market confidence in the Greek economy. Under the tax and budgetary provisions of this draft law, the Government is applying the pandemic's impact net more effectively and socially reciprocatingly. In particular, we are introducing for the months of January and February a lease exemption for those who are affected or are still closed, while, at the same time, we support leasers from the non-recovery of their rents. In fact, after February, we will be reviewing the extension of this measure accordingly. For seventy-five days the closing, appearance and payment deadlines for securities are suspended, thus providing the necessary flexibility on the market. A temporary measure of State aid to undertakings in the form of a subsidy for fixed costs, which will be irreversible, duty-free and without any netting. This package, which is constantly enriched and renewed, is not only a way of restoring the consequences of the pandemic, but also a backdrop so that the next day the Greek economy will relaunch a more privileged starting point. We have traveled a rough, painful and tiring route to this day, which has tried us on multiple levels. Nevertheless, against this insidious enemy, we have not been bent. We showed our teeth and continue to raise a shield for our weakest fellow citizens and those who experience the disastrous consequences of the period. We're approaching the clearing of hope. We continue with plan, realism, prudence and methodicity to come out with the least possible losses and claim the future that we deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u397	Thank you, too. Mr. Mandas has the floor. Mr. Mada, you as a Member of the Messinia are next to Laconia. I think you're a smuggler, a concise and substantial one. You have the floor for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u398	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first part of this bill concerns the procedures for updating the demographic, economic and social characteristics of our population. In other words, all the procedures for carrying out the censuses of buildings, dwellings, populations, agriculture and livestock are defined for 2021. These are very important provisions which, unfortunately, have not received the attention that should be given to all the Members who have listened to them all day long. Because it is obvious that the results of this census will be a very important and useful guide to the effective exercise of the economic, social and environmental policy to be pursued in the coming years, in the next decade, at a time when our country has a strong demographic problem, it comes from a ten-year economic crisis and, of course, it is facing this pandemic, which is an unprecedented phenomenon for the whole of the planet, but also for our country. The second part of the bill contains provisions to mitigate the financial consequences of the pandemic by the companies. First of all, all enterprises that have been closed by government order for the months January-February are exempted by 100% of the rents. In addition, 80% of the agreed rents are to be paid to the leasers for the respective months and, indeed, the money to be provided by the Greek State will be tax-free and irreparable. All traders who currently have cheques, notes and exchanges are provided with facilities in order to give them a breath of payment of their obligations for a few months, so as to address the significant liquidity problem that has been created to them because of the inability to sell their products over the last period. There is also a new set-aside programme for all companies, which will just come to cover a major problem for all of them focusing on focusing and commercial matters, because in recent years it is obvious that because of the universal closure it was impossible to cover their fixed costs, which many of these companies have been too high. I have heard a lot all day about a 'haircut' of obligations, about a 'haircut' of returning one, two, three, which has not been announced. I want to say to my fellow Members, for everyone to know, and to our fellow citizens who are following us, that all these loans, grants, subsidies granted by the Greek State, by the Greek State, to businesses will start to repay from 1 to 2022. Until then we have ten months before us to see the government and the financial staff working on the economy, to see how things will turn out, and from there on, to make the final decisions about what of all this money will eventually be returned by business and what is not. Be sure, because everyone has said so publicly and it is clear that some of this money should obviously not be repaid by businesses so that they can stand on their feet and continue their plan on a sustainable and realistic basis for the next day. While everyone recognises that the effects of pandemic on the economy have a dynamic development, we are listening to colleagues in the counter-population all day and, in particular, to the SYRIZA, to be omitted on government support measures. With irresponsible and hypocrisy, they are allegedly cut for the focus sector, the sector that targeted taxly by increasing VAT from 13% to 24%, the sector that drowned insurance by linking insurance contributions to income. They are supposedly cut off on the course of entrepreneurship in our homeland over the last few years. Who? Those people who have for the past five years criminalised entrepreneurship and targeted to destroy it, as cynically confess most of their first-class executives. They are the same ones who meet every day professional and business operators across Greece and are wearing sponsorships and subsidies, but none of them are talking about the account, how much money but, above all, where they will find it. We have never said that the state is in a position to cover all the damage to the economy created by the pandemic. What we have said, however, is that we will make use of all available state resources and European resources to support small and medium-sized enterprises and society. And that's what we do every day. Ladies and gentlemen, business has not been closed by the government. The pandemic's closed. We must all realize that. And within the difficulties experienced by all the small and medium-sized businessmen in our country, we realise that the state, in the context of its capabilities, stands alongside them. But what all those who suffer from pandemic want from us is responsible and serious. Both responsibility and seriousness, ladies and gentlemen, are not counted in euros. Seriousness and responsibility means recognition of the problem, realism, efficiency and a lot of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u399	Thank you very much, Mr. Mada. Mr. Kourublis, unfortunately, has not been able to connect. His speech will be sent and recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u400	We are now going to the last stage in order to come to an end. I will give Mr Alexiadis the floor for a moment because in the prototype of the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Eukleidis Tsakalotos did not take much time. They've all taken a lot of time. The rest of the Parliamentary Representatives have taken a long time. I'll give you three minutes with a little tolerance, because the Minister must also speak at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, Mr President. I am to these Members who consider that there should be no abuse of the rights that the parties' leaders, the former Presidents of Parliament, the parliamentary representatives and all those who speak much more than the Members. Because today we started at 10:00 and arrived at around 17:00 to talk to the first MPs. In this sense, and Euclid Tsakalotus, who has been in charge of Parliament's representatives, and I will not now speak much, despite the fact that the respective parliamentary representatives from many parties have abused this right, in my personal view. I shall refer to telegraphs in three respects, however, because there has been a lot of hearing about SYRIZA: First. The New Democracy Members and MPs who accuse SYRIZA of saying that a year ago he told us to give it all over again, commit a political misery and lie! If they bring me a text of the SYRIZA that said to give it all over again, I will resign the next day by a Member. They simply commit themselves to doing the same if they do not find such a text. Because from the outset we had made proposals calling for a forward programme and were entitled, but in no case did we say that we should give it all over again. That as far as the political lie is concerned, and we put it aside. With regard to SYRIZA's proposals, SYRIZA has costled and documented proposals from the beginning. They're costed within the limits of economic society's strength. But because the government comes and'surrounds' is going to hear it. It comes and says that 'I cannot accept any proposals because they are not costly, I cannot accept any amendments because they are not costly'. How does it then bring us provisions in bills that do not have a cost statement according to the General Accounting Reports? I can speak for hours with examples which do not insult SYRIZA, which insult the parliamentary procedure. How can they bring in provisions that favour specific logistical interests, deletion of fines of millions, without costing? Is that money there? And when we go to talk about small and medium-sized enterprises, we start and say we can't afford to give? On the subject of proposals again, I challenge the ministers to discuss whenever they want. The special uninterrupted professional account that everyone is asking for now, your executives in social productive bodies, does not cost the public EUR 1. Whenever we discuss this, I can prove in a thousand ways that you will increase public revenue. Why don't you bring it in and you don't do it? Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased The question was raised by a New Democracy MP whether we would have a pandemic in September 2015. It would be a disaster. Because SYRIZA a few months ago received a licensed fund and received, if you remember, from members of the Treasury who said then that I wouldn't have to pay wages and pensions. We left 37 billion, well - badly another conversation. Apart from that, though, I would remind you that New Democracy officials said we had to close and break down hospitals, fired nursing staff and doctors while they were in the Ministries and a number of other things. Last point. It was heard by ministerial lips that the statement "Okay, you say what you say, but what strangers say about us." This political complacency you know is dangerous. I will not go into what the Luke Gospel says about this matter. There are more competent Members of Parliament with more experience in theological field to say, although it is very useful. I would remind you, however, with my experience as an employee at the beginning of 1987 and then with other qualities in the Ministry of Finance, that there were many finance ministers who praised them, rehearsed them, etc. foreign houses, foreign committees, foreign institutions and stuff like that. Many of them led their parties to political defeats and many of them did not just go back to parliamentarians, but disappeared from the country's political life. Let go, then, what strangers say about you. See what citizens say. And if you want an essential goal, Saturday morning - open to anyone who wants - we can go together in the neighborhoods of Nice by sharing brochures to the small and medium-sized ones. It's the most good group for what's really the difference. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis. I see the times here, because I was not the President-in-Office, and the rapporteurs know it, that some people have taken a lot of time and a little too little. Mr. Scandalidis took the least time, as I see here. The Minister must speak. However, I have been asked for the floor for two minutes by Mr Karathanasopoulos who, like Mr Alexiades, is an official parliamentary representative, has received a document from SYRIZA - present as rapporteur because of the absence of Mrs Konnakas. A document has been sent. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u403	Thank you very much, Mr President. I asked him this year alone to address the census issues, and that is why a number of very important issues arise which will determine our vote. It's not just a technical matter. The first issue is this. For the first time, under the pretext of pandemic, the census will be done via the Internet, using the Internet. There are many issues raised here. What protection is provided in sensitive personal data, that this procedure cannot be intercepted? This is a very big issue, Minister. Secondly, there is and is related to this. Here they couldn't make an online appointment for the vaccine and go to the pharmacists by paying for the dolphin. Now will this world be able to make a census? Are you preparing a new clientele for various offices to do the census - and I'm talking about accounting offices, lawyers and others - privatising one side? Third matter. Third question. What guarantee of credibility is there the evidence this world gives of itself? How do you verify this if it gives the facts? It's a number of questions. The fourth issue, which we believe is the most important one - it had come to our attention, has also been mentioned by other speakers - is this: you are asking for AMCA and AMD. Why are you asking for AMCA and AMD, and you're not asking, for example, for a police ID? Not that it would change something, but AMCA and AMD means you have the complete file of the census. Therefore, you can settle and see what is settled on the basis of both the statements made in the census and as regards the assets and a number of other issues, which, in essence, in combination with the new Banking Code, for example, can even more easily have its own file completed without companies having to cross-check. And with a crossroads, though, if any of the evidence is not accurate, what happens? Will there be the consequences for those who have corrected the squares of their homes to relate PPC to tax, thus paying a new raisin at municipal fees? These are very serious issues, Minister, for them to pass through. If, therefore, you do not have clarifications on your part, unless we ensure that the Internet is secure, for the purpose of storing these sensitive personal data, because the officials will have access to all of these files - what is happening on the Internet very well - we are telling you clearly that the JRC will vote against all the Census articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes to tell us in letters, because you're at the top. Today you were a time champion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u405	Thank you very much, Mr President. In principle, we fully agree with Mr Karathanasopoulos's comments. Now, I would like to thank the Minister who has accepted our amendment to Article 40, although he has rejected it. It's very impressive. It's never happened before. In the context of the legislative improvements referred to in point 9, it adds to Article 40 under the terms ‘... classification table...’: ‘... set automatically void of non-existent classification tables which conflict with the provisions of this Regulation, without delay by the Special Administrator in a revised table’. Our amendment was: "Summary lists which have been drawn up and published without having become irrevocable shall be automatically void and the Special Administrator shall immediately draw up and publish a new table". It is exactly the same, so thank you very much for accepting the amendment. Do not be ashamed to accept the amendments of the other parties officially. You can do it. You will not enter the process and the trouble of making the legislative improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u406	We thank Mr Arsenis, who has indeed been very populist in his dentistry. Mr. Villard, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u407	Thank you very much, Mr President. What Mr. Karathasopoulos said about both AMKA and the AMG and about the security of evidence, we've told it beforehand. Obviously these are issues which concern us in terms of census. I have taken the floor, firstly because, firstly, the Minister, when I mentioned some of the figures from the excel he gave me, doubted and I would like to say that I will submit them in the Minutes. I got it here. It's the other branches. Seventeen thousand six hundred thirteen - exactly what I said - were not selected and seven thousand five hundred thirteen - were chosen. So, it was right the numbers I said. Secondly, I told him that the focus on the fifth returnee was in the seventy-sixteenth place according to letter and by e-mail I got from the Restaurant Association. I will also submit the e-mail to have it and to obtain better information and, if there is a doubt, to tell us which position, in his view, is. The third reason is this: I have asked him three times in the committees, and today if the'red' private debt has reached EUR 260 billion. He told me he'd answer. He didn't answer at all. He also did not answer specific questions both mine and our parliamentary representative, concerning 'Aegean'. I think he had to answer. He has to answer what we asked him. He also said that Greece is going well and that the rest of the countries, say, in Europe are not going well. It's not true. I have tabled in a previous speech in the Minutes that Portugal had about 13% of GDP fall in the second quarter, but it had 13% growth in the third quarter, while Greece in both quarters had fallen. Therefore, it does not apply. And let us not forget, of course, that Greece comes from a cumulative recession of 25%, so it obviously goes very badly. In addition, he reported that ADI was voted by SYRIZA in 2016. That's right. Except it's not SYRIZA's responsibility. The ADP, along with the superstition, was a prerequisite for the third memorandum, which all parties signed. So we can't blame SYRIZA alone. In the end, he said that rents which are not collected, are not declared as income and are not taxed. If that's possible! It's self-evident! Is it possible to tax an income that has not been collected? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u408	Thank you, too. I would like to clarify here, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to protest, that there is a paper that states that Mr Alexiades is a parliamentary representative, which I thank in particular because he was present at the whole meeting. The same applies to Mr Karathanasopoulos as rapporteur. Mr Karaoglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u409	Mr President, I would like to remind the House that politics is developing in time and is being tested on a long path, during which it is assessed and judged on a daily basis by society, which is also the final judge. On this route it proves its endurance, because since politics is not efficient and does not meet the needs of today, it is lured and canceled by the sequence of events. I would also like to remind some of my fellow SYRIZA Members - fortunately not everyone, I stress this - that populism and riskology may temporarily create impressions and make headlines in the victorious press, but that is not a law, a rule of policy that is constantly being verified. Now, this draft law seems to me to be a very positive bill. In all matters it gives substantial answers. Obviously, the pandemic crisis, which is a dynamic crisis, is evolving and does not allow us to say that we are solving all the problems through measures. Here we are - the government has shown that it works with soundness, self-restraint and does what we have to do - when we need to come back and take additional measures. However, I think it is incomprehensible that there should be political bodies, parties that do not vote on the bill, which provides, among other things, for census issues. I also take the view that the results of the census will be a guide to the exercise of national, economic, social, environmental policy that will meet the needs of the country. I cannot understand why there are political actors who will not vote for measures which are related to the cover of rentals for the months of January, February, in enterprises with a government mandate that remain closed or with compensation of 80% for owners if they are natural persons and 60% if they are legal persons or measures with which the state comes to cover the fixed and constant needs of businesses, operating costs. In any case, I would like to say that it is a bill that does not require micro-participatory treatment and micro-political exploitation. It's a bill that serves the citizen. Once again the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, proves that it can also support businesses and workers and, of course, extend a social protection net for sensitive social groups with particular problems. We are creating a secure environment for business, for workers with a view to rational distribution of resources available to us. We've said it and we're doing it. No Greek citizen will be left alone in this unprecedented crisis that humanity experiences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u410	Thank you, too. Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u411	Thank you, Mr President. What we understood today from all the debate in plenary is that the government has discovered that small and medium-sized enterprises can be supported not only by loans but also by non-refundable aid. After leading small and medium-sized enterprises to economic suffocation and a complete failure to meet their obligations, it is coming today and is implementing what the European Union has given it the opportunity to do. The Commission again urges the use of the measure of non-refundable aid. We cannot leave small and medium-sized enterprises once again to their luck. Let's go to the freezing subsidy. The Minister told us he'd try to be a grant. I would like to point out that what we have said in committee has also been said in my prototype today. We know that on the basis of Law 1863 - the committee's communication - the freezing subsidy will also be able to be a subsidy. Although the provision is an empty shell, we will vote for it and rely on the assurances of the Minister here in plenary and that exactly all the possibilities given by the committee will be realised, but that the necessary steps will also be taken so that it will be returned. For AEGEAN, an issue I would like to answer Mr Stakoura, although he is not here, Stagiras told us that the company will not give us the opportunity, but we can take it ourselves. Obviously, I saw something else and we all saw it, that the company was given the opportunity to decide whether or not to accept the acquisition. That's what the law says. I think you all have it in front of you, it's on page 24, and what the Minister said does not apply. We will vote against the provision. Thirdly, for the Public Investment Programme a number of issues. The answer by Mr. Psulakakis was that yes, there is a case where the work that will be financed will not be approved later, and in that case we will risk it, in other words we will gamble it. Okay, I don't think we can give the vote in favour. We shall vote 'at present' in the sense that we do not believe that this is how the Greek people's money can be used in the best way. We see desperate movements in order for society to stand. There's no plan. You're messing with the world, and we think you're getting tired of all these actions you're taking all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mrs. Papanaceu. Mr. Scandalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Mr President. There is the government's accusation that it is micro-participation in the policy of counter-population. On two political issues I shall refer to one particular amendment. There is a complaint about the micro-participatory policy that counterpopulation is doing. I want to reverse the accusation by saying that we have been so clear in all the articles these days, and we have asked for such clarifications that, unfortunately, the Minister did not make any substantial changes to the bill, so that he does not listen to the parliamentary procedure. It is not the opposition that, despite its disagreements, can vote in principle and in a large number of articles, despite its objections. That is not micropolitical, Minister, and I think it should be understood by everyone. Secondly, the basic argument of the government is that we are generally proposing money cannot be made available and the possibilities are limited, etc. The question is that money could also be safeguarded in liquidity mainly because of the possibility of banks' available resources to make another development policy. But the question is not just how much money is, but where is the money? And unfortunately your policy is deeply classic. They go only to the great interests and to the 'logues'. Go see how you share the loans or aid from the banks. So we have a huge political issue, which is not dealt with by excellence, 'where to get the money and what to do with it'. Banks have more than 20 billion dollars available for liquidity and have given whistle-blowing. And the government can interfere with such procedures. And the last one, Mr President, and I'm closing. Who is a micro-policy appears wholeheartedly in the dreadful amendment brought by Mr Vorides. The government has decided that it will appoint transitional heads of public bodies without having any time to make a normal appointment, with the result that the state, beyond the concentration of Maximes, will fill up all the public bodies, change whoever it wants and put 'its own children'. And he comes in this way, throwing a twenty-day "caramella" that he was supposed to start the process in twenty days, but there is no time end in the process. So I think that a government that claims to be modern, that goes with the times, that it uses worthwhile criteria, that it is of interest to deserve the dignity and the AACC and all of this, instead of allowing the AACC to do its job quickly, gives the government itself the opportunity to replace the AACC with the appointments. I think that's the epitome of pheasyness.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u414	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. It is now up to the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Besiropoulos, to close today's long sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the pandemic, the government has taken measures to support the economy. The measures had a horizontal dimension, they were based on rationalisation and actual data. For a year now, our legislative function has been focusing on dealing with the consequences of this unprecedented situation in the economy and society. For some it is easy to adopt easy solutions. Besides, the path of populism is easy and acquainted with them. We made arrangements for the debts created, but this did not like those who are pushing towards populism. They have already begun to promise or seek debt write-off in the same way as they promised they would abolish the memorandum or debt with a law and an article. In fact, the rhetoric of counter-population, but also the tactics it has adopted, are a product of panic that comes from the support and confidence shown by the citizens in the face of the Prime Minister, but also the way in which the government manages this unprecedented situation. Panic leads to dangers and catastrophes. By way of difference, citizens have turned their backs on these practices. The Government continues its institutional and legislative interventions to support those who suffer the negative effects of the pandemic on their business and professional activity, on their income. And this will be a constantly evolving process until we return to normality. Because new data, new needs and priorities arise. That is precisely what is reflected in the bill that is being voted on today in the House. With substantial support measures for the real economy, such as the full discharge of the rental payment for the months of January and February for enterprises with a government mandate. It is a measure that covers a broad business base. The companies that can benefit from this are: The retailers of the retail trade, even those who operate by electronic or telephone commercial delivery at home. Focus businesses, even those that operate through the distribution of products in a package and the supply of products in a package from the store. Hairdressers, aesthetic centers, cultural and sport enterprises, gyms, tourist businesses such as hotels, accommodation and tourist agencies and transport services. At the same time, we are talking about a double-sided support measure which includes the owners of these real estates, to which for the same months will be paid directly in their bank account 80% of the monthly rent for natural persons and 60% for legal persons. The relevant arrangement provides that the amounts granted as compensation to the joint owners of real estate are not counted as income, are tax-free and inconsistent. A significant measure of support for enterprises is the grant of fixed costs which can cover payroll costs and specific operating costs of an undertaking. Another beneficial measure which aims to avoid duplication and unsurpassing problems on the market is the regulation of cheques and securities. The aim is to make it easier for businesses and professionals to pay their cheques and securities, but also to support them in the medium term. There are also favourable and beneficial provisions in the bill for the primary sector. I am thinking of changing the method of submitting amending declarations for farmers. This means that the amounts relating to agricultural aid and subsidies can now be declared in the year of their recovery, and it is clearly foreseen that for the amounts collected following a judicial decision or objection, the taxpayer may choose to tax them in the year to which they relate. I also note the exemption from the solidarity levy on agricultural aid and subsidies collected in the tax year 2021, but they go back to the tax year 2020, as well as the arrangement that facilitates the process of switching farmers from the VAT special to the standard scheme due to the collection in the years 2018, 2019 and 2020 of agricultural subsidies exceeding EUR 5,000. The arrangement shall enter into force on 1 January 2021 and the relevant statement of changes from the special VAT arrangements may be submitted by 31 March 2021. It should be noted that this declaration concerns declarations of changes to the compulsory transfer from the special VAT arrangements for farmers with a deadline for submission until 31 January 2021. The period for the submission of declarations of changes to the relevant paragraph of the provision in question, submitted by law on 31 January 2021, is extended until 31 March 2021, whereas fines of L.4174/2013 imposed on those farmers for late submission of statements of changes and declarations referred to in Article 38 are not due and, if they have been paid, are refunded. Another positive measure aimed at helping a sector affected by the effects of the pandemic is the two-month extension until 26 March of the payment of the excise duty and the other charges relating to alcoholic beverages and other alcoholic products. Furthermore, a beneficial measure is the extension until 30 June 2021 of tax returns for tax year 2019 for tax residents abroad. An extension accompanied by the annulment of any fines imposed, while for the fines collected, they are to be regarded as in the short term. With Article 39 of the bill, we are dealing with a timely problem with realism and rationality. I am referring to the resolution of the issue raised by the submission of objections before the Greek State to property of thousands of acres within the administrative boundaries of the Municipalities of Laureate and Saronic and which are claimed by the State as former forests within a town plan. At the same time, we are looking for a way of resolving the corresponding problems of those not covered by this provision in cooperation with all the stakeholders. For this reason, an extension is given to the suspension of the examination of objections by the veterinary committees on property falling within the administrative limits of the Municipalities of Laureate and Saronicos and not covered by the regulatory framework of the above provision. Finally, the bill contains a provision granting the use of three real estates to the new gymnastics club of Thessaloniki HRAKLIS 1908 for the service of sports and educational purposes. It is foreseen that the enforcement measures imposed on the public property concerned are not abolished, but are suspended for as long as the abovementioned purposes are carried out. The joint Ministerial Decision provides for the acceptance of that concession and for the revocation in the event that the sporting purposes for which they were intended are not served are not met. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has a clear aim to keep the economy alive and to support those who really need it. He also prepares the next day. It creates the conditions for speeding up the development process. This is also the purpose of the provision of funding from the Public Investment Programme for projects which have the guarantees to be included in the Recovery Fund, a regulation which has been included in the draft today. What we must all realise is that from this health and economic crisis we must all go together together and stronger. That's the next day's target. This is the priority of the government of Mr. Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Guidelines for the year 2021 by the Hellenic Statistical Authority, urgent arrangements to deal with the effects of the COVID Pandemic - 19, urgent financial and tax arrangements and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, 42 articles, 2 amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u417	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u418	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u419	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Action of General Censuses for the year 2021 by the Hellenic Statistical Authority, urgent arrangements to address the impact of the COVID pandemic - 19, urgent budgetary and fiscal arrangements and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u420	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u421	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-04-S1-commons.u422	With the consent of the House at 22.10 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, February 5, 2021, at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
