ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 20-7-2021 authorisation, PRACLEY's minutes were confirmed by the Bureau at its meeting of Tuesday, 20 July with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy:]] ‘The Integrated Waste Management Framework — Incorporation of Directives 2018/851 and 2018/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive 2008/98/EC on waste and Directive 94/62/EC on packaging and packaging waste, the framework of the Hellenic Recycling Agency, provisions on plastic products, and the protection of the natural environment, spatial - urban, energy and related emergency arrangements’. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the debate on today's topical and urgent questions, let me inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Friday 23 July 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 947/14-7-2021, a topical question by MP B1' North Athens, New Democracy Mr. George Koumoutsakos, Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Development interventions in the North sector of the Attica Region". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 961/19-7-2021 by SYRIZA's MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "Great concerns after the abolition of the Kalavryton Treasury". 3. The Question No 963/19-7-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on "Direct problems in Alikarnassos prisons". 4. The question by No 953/19-7-2021 was raised by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Application of measures on the acute problems faced by Roma in the Nea Zois Aspryrgos area". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by Mr Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Let the sectoral contracts of electricians be signed immediately." REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Proclamation of the New Local Collective Labour Convention of the Guides to Tourism Bus in Crete as generally compulsory". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 6698/19-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The indifference of the government perpetuates the pension problems of pensioners due to death". The Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing that the timely questions to be discussed are as follows: The Question No 965/19-7-2021 will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Question No 949/19-7-2021, 952/19-7-2021, 954/19-7-2021 and 959/19-7-2021 topical questions and Question No 6177/21-4-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. The first question will be discussed under number 965/19-7-2021 in the second cycle of the SYRIZA MP - the Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambos (Hari) Mamoulaki to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "What will be the form of taking advantage of the area of the "Nikos KAZANTZAKIS" airport in Heraklion Crete?". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, on 23 January 2020 you signed a loan contract with the Vice-President of the European Investment Bank with a view to building the new Heraklion airport in the region of Kastelion of EUR 180 million. The European Investment Bank, by signature of the contract, gave publicity to signs and territories thereof and an accompanying text of the contract, which stated that the Greek State was committed to promoting the development of the area of the KAZADZAKIS airport in order to enable the resources for the new airport to be disbursed. The form and model of the use of urban renewal that would be promoted in the region was left to the Greek authorities. However, the document stated that the steps by studying the development of the refreshment project were an abstract heresy for disbursement of the loan instalments and therefore for the implementation of the Kastelli airport. Since then, Minister, we have repeatedly called for the deposit of the whole together with the accompanying texts of the loan contract in such a way that we can see the spectacular and unscrupulous aspects that govern it and the main, of course, to see how the Greek Government, your government, wants to make use of this area, which is undoubtedly a great bet for everyone and a great challenge and of course for local government. You have repeatedly stated that you consider the famous 'innovation proposals' to be good practice, 'unsolicated proposals', a practice which, of course, is not so familiar with EU law, given the European directive on concessions. Because it is essentially a public tender for the submission of private sector proposals for a realisation through public-sector PPP. This is where the Municipality of Heraklion, who published a specific study in February 2021, entitled ‘Evaluating and addressing socio-economic, development, environmental impacts from the removal of the airport ‘Nikos KAZADZAKIS’. And, indeed, this study was distinguished from a specific philosophy, from five main axes, five distinct spatial units: 34% were and is the area of the single green, 15% theme park, 15% business park, 20% of soft tourist development and 16% for the transport of administrative functions, which in fact presuppose the urban fabric of the city and which would be a really excellent opportunity to be transferred there in order to achieve duplicate regeneration in practice. Finally, I ask two distinct questions, Minister. First, does the Ministry and you intend to accept Heraklion Municipality's proposal to regenerate the area at the airport 'Nikos KAZADZAKIS', so that an open local park can actually take place and that the two-fold renewal of the city of Heraklion finally takes place? Secondly, is the studying maturity at the airport "Nikos KAZADZAKIS" an abstract cultivation for the completion of the airport of Kastelion? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u4	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. I remind you that this is two minutes of speaking time to questions. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, I think that if something you need to recognize in this government, it is that in the two years that have passed we have placed Crete at the heart of infrastructure projects. Do you want to talk about the BOAK, which for the first time we have funding, engraving and timing? You want to talk about Castle's airport? Do you want to talk about the anti-military protection projects that we do in Lassithi, Rethymno Prefecture, with Platy dam, for the Tauronite river projects in Chania Prefecture? All these projects, I think, now that we all accept that they really change Crete and give a very large growth breath on an island that has great potential. Let's go to Castelli now. I shall begin by saying this. We had made an election commitment, Mr Mamulaki. What we said in an election, unlike SYRIZA, we did it and we did it post-election. What did we say? We said that we would never allow Heraklion airport to become a new "Greek" and said that we would use the private sector, so that it would give us suggestions to see how we can make use of this truly excellent property, whose study - because you told me about the Municipality of Heraklion - they have not presented it to us nor have submitted it to us. Usually, you know, we don't do a study and we just publish it. This study must have some assumptions. Those assumptions we haven't seen. And we would also like you to know that at the moment a very important problem has not been solved, which is ownership, because there is a matter of national security with the Ministry of Defence, which we are negotiating, to finally see which areas they will be released for use and who are not. So how can there be a study at this stage, which has not actually taken this very serious problem into account? Because another is to get 50% of the space, another 30% and another 10%. So, you understand that's a matter. So what did we say? We said that this two thousand eight hundred acres would not allow it to become a "Greek" and I think that those who listen to us will agree. I mean, we have a very bad experience in this country. Don't go to why it happened. There was an incredible reaction between local government, between bodies, between political parties and for twenty years this property remained there and which, if you like, was an incredible shame for the entire Hellenic Republic. So what do we say? The obvious thing is that we need to see how we can make use of this space. There is no - and I want to be clear about that - the possibility of ignoring the proposals of local government. However, it is such an important task for the region, which we must also listen to other proposals, and the parties and the government must take concrete positions. In my denture I will have the opportunity to tell you how the 'innovation proposals' work. A little correction, though. You are mistaken that it is against European directives. This is a tool corresponding to the competitive dialogue provided for in Directive 2014/24. Let me just say that under no circumstances are we dogmatic about what needs to be done at the former Heraklion airport. Castlely's progressing properly. All the milestones that we have agreed with one EIB, the European Investment Bank, are being followed at the moment and there is no worry about whether or not Castelli can go ahead financially. In my dentistry, Madam President, I will reply to Mr Mamulakis on how, if we wish, we will use this tool. We'll legislate very quickly. I also want to tell the citizens of Heraklion that this process of using the airport is a process that wants dialogue and we are open to dialogue and open to the proposals of the Municipality of Heraklion, and it is important for us to submit this proposal to the Ministry of Infrastructure, to meet with them and see what their proposals are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u7	Minister, may I remind you that the Municipality of Heraklion is a prefect and holds about 1/3 of the area we are discussing. So it is not just a regional player who claims to be placed in the area. It has an inalienable right and political and social and property right. One of the prisoners. Secondly, more than two years have passed since the signing of the contract on government SYRIZA for the construction of the airport of Kastelli and more than one year since your signature for the loan contract with the EIB. You said the milestones were fulfilled. So I would like to inform you, on the basis of this text that the EIB itself made public, that the first and second milestones, which concern the crystallisation of the property regime in the wider region, have not been clarified. After all, you admitted that you are still in discussions with the Ministry of National Defence for the region, which is indeed in contact and is adjacent to the region we are discussing. So here we have a structural uncertainty on my part, given that there is an intent at oral and verbal level, but there is no progress in practice. As, unfortunately, we have not seen progress all over the past few years, for decades, in many key and important projects concerning the development orientation of Crete. Soon, because you gave me all that concerning the events of each party concerning the island, I will tell you that projects that have been swept over for years in SYRIZA have been auctioned, contracted, executed. An outstanding case is the vertical road of Heraklion - Messaras, with infrastructure, renewable energy projects, the electrical interconnection of Crete, the BOAK with a public tender. that after the delay of two years you seem to be being universally embraced and followed, you simply lost two years for Crete and the famous burdens of citizens through tolls and much more. For the airport of Kastelli, mentioned, I would remind you that the signing of the contract took place in 2019 on the government of SYRIZA. The loan contract was signed by you. But in any case we are going to do so, because I think what you said is in agreement with us. So what? No one wants to become the "Greek" of Crete. I therefore believe that, first of all, it is your duty, Minister, to testify, and I expect you to accept it and submit it to the Greek Parliament, the National Representation, all the parties involved, and also to the Municipality of Heraklion, the loan contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u8	What does she have to do with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u9	I asked you a question: is there a breakthrough here or is there not in the loan contract for the disbursement of Castellii's resources? Is it in doubt or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u10	You're shouting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u11	I say, Minister, because one and a half years you underestimate the parliamentary procedure. On request I have repeatedly asked you and the Ministry of Finance and indeed as a new parliament gives me an excellent impression, I would say, of how you manage this issue. And because I want to respect time, Madam President, I close by saying two things. Firstly, I really expect the loan contract to be deposited by you, Minister, today in the Greek Parliament. And secondly, the main question is, because that is what we are interested in, if you are really interested in sharing, incorporating and discussing with the Municipality of Heraklion on its proposal, which I am passing away to you that it has been put to the attention of the Ministry of the Environment, because they are governed by an environmental impact study, and from that time the Municipality of Heraklion started discussing with the Greek Government, so I imagine it will end up legally in the Ministry of Infrastructure. So these two questions are raised: the deposit of a loan contract and whether there is really a intention on the part of the Minister to discuss and proceed jointly with the Municipality of Heraklion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u12	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u13	Mr Mamulaki, I am surprised that you are speaking and expressing your political speech. You should be more careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u14	I'm very careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u15	Does SYRIZA speak of parliamentary procedures? I have come to Parliament and have answered five topical questions. Do you want me to remind you how you were working when you were on these benches? You did not have the political courage to come and answer the questions of colleagues. We don't spend a week coming. This is to understand how democracy works and how we, the party that we have brought democracy, are perceived by you, the so-called radical leftists. Now we're going to the topics, one - one. You're completely ignorant. The loan contract has nothing to do with what we are going to do in Kazantzakis. First you don't know what you're saying. Firstly, the milestones are good because the loan contract began on 7 February. In Kastelli - so you know European practices - you had gone to sign a contract and finally we made 14 months unlock Castelli from the European and Greek gears of bureaucracy. Because you could not contact the Ministry of Infrastructure with the Ministry of Finance with DIGICOM. You know how to negotiate with Europe. And you're swinging our fingers and telling us that unsolicited proposals are against European practice. May I remind you how well we negotiated in 2015? Compare the way in which you negotiated what we have done over the past two years, which all the issues that have to do with the Directorates-General are dealt with in a way that is rational, and serious, and horizontal in order to unblock projects and finance them. So now let's go see about the Castellina thing. At the moment, because this is obviously something that you are ignorant of, Mr Mamulaki, we have as a committee with the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Infrastructure to resolve the property regime and to see what area it will be granted to and to whom it is to be granted. This is within the EIB Convention, which said that twenty-four months later, that is after 7 February, we will have the second milestone. The second milestone is 2022. The first milestone that has passed, we have fulfilled it. So I answer clearly that there is nothing to do with the agreement we have made with EIB. The second thing you ask me is when we will table the contract in the House. Is that the point? It's a loan contract. We've all made loan contracts as Greek State. When and when the process of using the airport proceeds, it is understood that we will be tabling all the documents. Have we ever said as government that we don't deposit documents?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u16	Then will you testify?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u17	We'll testify when the Greek Government finds that we have to testify with EIB when the project proceeds. Look, I'm closing up with this so I don't eat the time of my dear colleague. The misguided arguments you have, the embarrassment of everything that is being done in Crete, have led you to a criticism that has no beginning, middle and end. In Crete for five years you have not done anything at all. You're making fun of the world for the BOAK. In Kastelli, while you had advanced the contract, and I have recognized it, it had not finally started the project because you could not reach agreement with the JRC and DIGICOM. We started the artwork in Castelli. At the moment I understand your embarrassment, I understand your misery, but the truth is that we are open to dialogue not only with the Municipality of Heraklion and with the Region of Crete, but also with all actors in order to make use of this airport. And that is something that, as I explained to you, my dear fellow Member, we had said as Opposition and acted as a government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too, Minister. The first question under number 959/19-7-2021 will now be discussed in the first cycle of MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Mousala, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Abortion of the decision to interrupt orthopaedic clinics at the hospital of Asclipio Voula". The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Muzalas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u19	Madam President, Minister, my question is clear and simple. I do not want to dress it up with voices and answers that are useful to Facebook, but they are not at all useful in the practice of reality facing the people there and the world in the south-east Atlantic. The question, Minister, is this: In April, you suddenly closed the daily newspaper of the Orthopaedic Department at Voula Hospital. It is a on-call that has been valid for fifty years now and which served about a hundred incidents a day, at the moment, due to the unfortunate and bad policy that the other hospitals have converted exclusively into CIVID, when Voula does not observe the only solution for the people of Southeast Attica is the CSD. My question, therefore, is whether you intend to lift this unfair decision and to resume on-call work, which is essential because it solves people's problems, is now solving problems especially in the summer by overloading the beach and by increasing sporting activities. It's a shortage for the area. We visited mayors, all mayors regardless of political position, the hospital doctors agree, the hospital workers agree, the EIAP, the Hospital Doctors Association agrees, so we would like to know if you intend to open the orthopedic daily newspaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u20	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Mouszala, I will be very clear about the answer, saying first of all that the Voula's 'Scientific' on the orthopaedic incidents had not been interrupted. The hospital never stopped taking orthopaedic cases. Never! And I stress that. And the regular on-call will be restored as far as orthopaedic incidents are concerned. But let me make a few points that I have the opportunity to make with the question you are asking. You also said fifty years of Vula's "Cascite" is facing orthopaedic incidents. It was in 1985, it was an orthopedic centre when it joined the National Health System. Voula's "Scepion" really serves a large area and is not just to serve orthopaedic incidents. We need to see in total the grid of services offered by this hospital, which is a pillar hospital for the National Health System and how all residents of the region are served. And that's what I'd expect to hear in your question. And a proposition. Because we have a proposal, how we see Voula's 'Scickhouse', and I shall refer to that. The pandemic taught us a lot. We were able, knowing the chronic problems of the National Health System and the distortions that the system has, to identify both the weak and the strong points of the National Health System, so that we could build the new National Health System that the country needs and serve the needs of all citizens and I say this, because yes, it serves a large area, many residents, you have spoken with the inhabitants and institutions, you know that the Voula's 'Science' does not have a pulmonary clinic to serve such an area? I must therefore - I would expect - to listen to proposals from you, because we have a proposal on how we see the hospital the next day. The "Suspion" of Voula has not been transformed, as has all hospitals of the National Health System in hospitals only for COVID during the Coronovirus period. He was asked to manage and successfully did it, both in single beds and in intensive therapy beds. And it never had to be converted to a CIVID clinic, as mentioned in your question and function, as did the increased care unit continued without any interruption or change in its function. I repeat that Voula's "Scrip" never ceased to accept orthopaedic incidents. There was a reduction, and that was in the invention. Why did it happen? Because we had on average, especially during the pandemic of two incidents a day, and we had to employ a lot more staff to deal with these incidents. So there was a redeployment of forces to have a distribution of staff to deal with both the CIVID incidents and certainly at any time no fellow citizen left without orthopaedic coverage. It was right, therefore, to consider that there is no need for an average of two incidents after three o'clock at noon to keep clinics all 24 hours a day. Simple rules for the proper management of human resources and hospitals' clinical and hospital resources. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Allow me, Madam President, to take some time from my denology. So we are given the opportunity from the experience and additional knowledge we have gained from the management of the pandemic to be able to see for Voula's "Chief" specifically how we will upgrade the health services provided, how we will offer new ones, to meet the needs of our fellow citizens in the wider region. Top service will continue to be offered, such as orthopedic services and - I repeat - that it will return to full inauguration status. I'll tell you a typical example of the situation at the orthopedic clinics. Today there are six orthopedic clinics with fifteen doctors, nine auxiliary and twenty-one qualified and the power of developed beds is a hundred-five, covering these beds, which has not exceeded 54% and there are also orthopaedic clinics with less 40% coverage. So fifteen doctors and nine adjunctives in six clinics with an average fullness of 50%. If this is not a squander of resources and powers, then I wonder what it is. And the ESS cannot withstand another fragmentation of powers nor, of course, the citizens who require better service than a modern health system, do not have it. In this direction, therefore, and coming back to full inauguration, with regard to orthopaedic clinics, we will be able to merge these clinics and create new orthopaedic departments, which will obviously be better staffed with the necessary personnel, both medically and nursingly, and at the same time, we will also create restoration and treatment services that are so much needed for patients with orthopaedic problems and there are also a plan for the overall treatment of the wound, because it is not just orthopaedic incidents that are called upon to cover the 'Civil Service' of Voula. It has to cover incidents of trauma in the whole, because the evidence is negligible. More than 90% of the wounds are forced and intersected in other hospitals in order to have full health services. So we join forces, so that we have full service in terms of orthopaedic clinics and develop new services. And I would like to say something at this point, Madam President, and thank you for your tolerance, that these new clinics, which will also be made in the national health system clinics, should finally be able to take part in these notices by open procedures. I'm being rated. We want the best doctors in the National Health System, and in this process we will achieve it. So will we be doing the same in the case of delegations of responsibility, commissions of presiding departments to various clinics, which will be carried out as a result of crisis and evaluation with the best doctors. We want the best health system, the best doctors, so that the citizen knows he's going to the best hospitals to get health services. The awards to Heads of Divisions will therefore be made on the basis of evaluation and on the basis of criteria. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u23	Let me say, Madam President, that many times this parliamentary dialogue through verbalism has suddenly become ineffective. The question was very simple. The daily on-call of the CSD, orthopaedic, has been missing from Southeast Attica for fifty years. We didn't tell you they didn't accept orthopaedic events every four days. We told you that ninety incidents every day have no place to go. You brought us a plan, which nobody knows, which you are saying today alone. There's no writing. It has not been given to bodies. It hasn't been given to the administration we met with. Not given to EIAP. It has not been given to the mayors who are elected by your own party. You're telling me to believe you. I have all the will to believe you, but this is not the case for parliamentary dialogue, in the logic of 'belief us'. You throw the ball on the platform. I'll close, because it doesn't make any sense. Honestly, I can't understand this process. What are you going to tell Voula? What are you going to say to Glyfada? What are you going to tell Alimo? What are you going to tell New Izmir? You're going to say they're going to be elected and made with a lead rating? Is that what we asked you? We asked you why the surgery fell by seven hundred and why it doesn't have a daily on-call. Why does the kid who broke his leg have to go to the CSD, why doesn't he have to go anywhere? We asked you these things. You have responded with one theory, which is not written, Minister. Nothing has been given so far. In the question, and in the day-to-day paper, we got the answer that it would open. We didn't tell you that in Voula due to COVID, the daily on-call isn't working. On the contrary, we said something heavier, that you used COVID as a pretext to close the daily orthopedic newspaper. Because Voula's spatial planning allows for both COVID and the orthopedic clinic to operate on a daily newspaper. Finishing, don't answer me. Answer the mayors. Answer the EIAP. Will you maintain the public character of the hospital? This is a question of mayors who are elected with the New Democracy by some of them. Will today's entire area be maintained? Is there going to be modernisation of infrastructure and equipment? Is he going to be served with permanent staff? What everyone agrees with: will the daily newspaper of the orthopaedics be reopened immediately? All the others are texts that can be written in a newspaper and admire the literary and scientific accuracy of our speech. In fact, the incident that breaks his hand while taking a bath, which becomes a car accident, can he go to Voula or should he go to the CSD? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be brief. Mr Mouszala, I will start my answer in answer to the questions put to you by the mayors and institutions of the region and by the inhabitants. Of course we support the public nature of the National Health System. We've proved it. We prove it every day. It seemed during the pandemic period. We strengthened the National Health System and the "Scientific" Voula on both equipment and human resources. We did two and a half thousand recruits of permanent medical staff in the health system and additional recruitment of subsidiary staff, additional recruitment of permanent other staff. And we do that all the time. We support the public health system. Of course, the 'Asclipion' of Voulas and its infrastructure modernises - and this is thanks to the contribution made by large donors of private individuals, ex-wife of the Martinou family - and the services are upgraded and we want to offer other services. I told you what we'd answer the Glyfada residents. The "Asclipio" Voulas will be able to deal with a pulmonary incident, which could not until now, because he had no pulmonary clinic. There are services that are not offered and forced by the resident of the surrounding area to go to other hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u26	This led to the shutdown...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u27	You're telling me what we're gonna do. I had the opportunity through your question to say what we are thinking about doing with the "Screek" Voulas. I told you the paper never closed. We had sixty - eight incidents, imports of the first three months of the year at the orthopedic clinic. And I told you that because of COVID, because there was a rational distribution of powers, in order to deal with COVID, the on-call stops at noon at three o'clock. No one's left helpless. It's in other hospitals. And of course, you know very well that this is not happening now. It's happening all the years. If someone finds himself out of a hospital and needs it, it has broken his hand or there is an accident, of course the hospital offers its services. He has never refused a public hospital to provide health services to our fellow citizens. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the second with number 949/19-7-2021 topical question of the first Boeotian MP of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The inadequate staffing of the General Hospital (GN) Livadias is causing immediate problems of his malfunction and poses risks to the health and life of citizens". The timely question will also be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Kontozamanis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the current situation at the Hospital of Livade proves that seventeen months after the start of the coronary pandemic and during the fourth wave, the hospitals in the country are far short of the needs of the citizens. Severe incidents see the light of publicity. That is why I am asking you the question, which I am tabling today. I also make the Minutes of yesterday's sitting. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is therefore clear that despite the government's declarations to strengthen health structures in Boeotia, there are still serious shortcomings and gaps in medical staff who make it difficult to serve citizens in a city of thirty thousand inhabitants, but also in residents of the neighbouring municipalities and also in neighbouring municipalities, who come to the region of Livada for a service. So the most recent incident, which is critical and publicised, Mr Minister, was the case of an eighteen-year-old, where after a car accident with a pet was taken from the EKA in a comatose state at the Hospital of Livada. The young man was in a heavy state, but because of his lack of invention of a radiologist and anestheticologist, it was not possible to carry out complete medical operations. In fact, it seems that the investigation of possible intra-abdominal injury was done using the method of peritoneal washing used in the 1980s - so the doctors say - and the incident was eventually carried out with a doctor without being invaded at the CSD’s hospital. That was the incident, and that is our question today. Minister, you know very well that in Boeotia there is not a single IF. The Hospital of Livadea is on a continuous guard because of the pandemic and is called upon to serve imports of CIVID patients, but also any other courses of intersected patients to the Athens Hospital and the neighbouring counties, for which it is absolutely necessary to carry out the invasions by a doctor anesthesiologist. Hospital subsistence problems jeopardise adequate and quality care for patients who must be systematically monitored or collected in a newspaper. It is therefore an obligation for the state at least to take these into account. Questions, Mr Minister: Is there a fitness at the Hospital of Livadia to medical and nursing staff for an overall response to CIVID and non-COVID incidents? And if so, how could we have this incident which has been denounced and reported and made public, namely that there is no on-call for two main specialities in dealing with an emergency - radiologist and anesthetic - on Saturday 17 July? And how do you intend, Minister, to cover these shortcomings - I am sure you are aware of them - to cover them specifically with special medical and nursing staff, who are not without a view to having adequate medical advice and actions specific to patients? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u30	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Mulkiotis, the General Hospital of Livadeas is sufficiently staffed to meet the needs of the local residents. And, of course, let us be honest, each hospital meets specific needs and must meet and when it needs to be increased or more care is done, as has been done in the case of the event that you are referring to, where the immediate intervention of a specific specialist such as that of the neurosurgery was needed. The hospital stabilised the patient and, of course, threw him in the nearest large hospital, as it did, which is the CSD. It is useful, however, to use this position and your question, because the role of the district hospitals with peak services such as emergency medicine through a sufficiently staffed emergency department with full staff in the basic specialities, such as pathologists and anesthetists, is evident. And, of course, there also needs a very well-organised system for the treatment of such heavy incidents in larger hospitals or higher situations. Let me say that the gaps are not covered by one day in the next, but we have read much of the way, and we have covered gaps in specialties such as pathology with five servants in six organic positions and another pathologist expected to take office very soon, in anesthesiology and pediatrics by four doctors with full organic position coverage, in general surgery with four servants and a vacancy that will soon be covered by a new doctor's service from a recent notice and in the specificity of radiodiagnostics, of course there is room for aid since there is currently two permanent doctors. So the hospital has been reinforced. Efforts are being made to strengthen and upgrade it. I repeat, the hospital is well-appointed and equipped. There are surely signs of improvement. We do not, however, need to cultivate insecurity in the world and create false impressions. Our effort to strengthen the hospital is lasting with results in particular. In conclusion, I would like to say to you, Mr Mulkiotis, that the incident you refer to in your question has been dealt with in the Livada Hospital's LAGs and has rightly been parked in the CSD as it would have been in an appropriate serious accident or another serious incident of multiracial injury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, first of all, I note that you do recognize that there are shortcomings and that these shortcomings need to be addressed. It is important that you recognize that. Secondly, far from us, the creation of impressions, however, we are obliged to do whatever happens and affect the data we have to respect and cover, we will show it. It is the government's duty to come to Parliament and take the floor and specifically to say what it is doing. In fact, there are shortages of experts, as you say, and I hope that these shortcomings will be covered. It is a big deal and you know it much better than we do, if not as we know, of the role of regional hospitals. You come to answer our questions on how much gaps in the Livada Hospital have actually been covered, but that will not be the case, but the specific specialities that are of crucial importance, crucial, have not been covered. We arrived at the borderline of a new eighteen-year-old man who was seriously injured and there was no radiologist and anesthesiologist in order to deal with the best possible way. It was, of course, dealt with. The doctors "blocked" and dealt not just with professionalism, but with self-sacrificing methods that are not modern, but with the past in order to save a situation. But is that enough to say that things are being handled in a regional hospital? I think, Minister, that is not enough. I believe it's a state's obligation and responsibility. The government has to see it. It is essential that these two basic specialities, the anestheticologist and the radiologist, are covered and that there are permanent situations and that it is responsible for these specialities. And the Ministry's leadership must respond, Minister, how it intends to fill these gaps and how it sees the gaps to be covered. Because I cannot imagine that you are adopting some logic that 'we will cover it in some way, perhaps in future, and what is happening'. Oh, no! This is where we have to find the way in which these two key positions are directly covered. It's not any place. Of course there have been gaps, but these gaps which we are pointing out today in the question are problems which you must deal with and which you must deal with. Minister, we transfer the anxiety of the citizens, transfer the agony of the people on the front line, the doctors and nurses. That is why we are putting the issues on you, because we cannot be tolerated in an image of an eighteen-year-old at risk and running to see how they can deal with a situation and seek to find anesthesiologist and a radiologist, and that this issue cannot be dealt with and dealt with exactly as I have told you. I will conclude, Madam President, and I will say that the priority in these two specialties is of major importance. And, Minister, I would like you to say this, take a position and commit themselves to being covered for the fullness of the essential involvement of this process that health and the public health system should have in regional hospitals. It is a sign of writing and you have an obligation and I would like you to commit yourself here today. Of course, it is not the question, but I just want to inform you that there is a confusion because the Livadia Hospital is interconnected and there were some announcements from the Prime Minister's lips on mergers and other issues. There has been complete inconvenience and you've been informed I believe. We must make this clear with clear positions, clear words and no ambiguities. And the City Council of Thebes meets this afternoon on this matter. I want you to see, in other words, how the periphery is and how anxious the region is to transfer any incident to Athens and whether it can be transported. And you know something better than me, that transport is not so easy, nor is it so easy to access the EKAB, speed, directness, and we may lose incidents. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Mulkiotis, we have demonstrated by our decisions and our actions in two years that our aim is to strengthen structures in each region. That's what's going on in Livadea. You know that there is a ready care unit and we want it to work to serve the local residents. Livadea is at a point near Athens. She has her next door and the new big hospital in Chalkida. So we should see how we can create synergies and unite forces, so that we can have the best result. As far as the specificities you mentioned are concerned, anesthesiology is the specialty that may be the most problematic in the National Health System. That is why we have recently advanced a specific legislative initiative so that we can support this specialisation. Since there are vacant posts, especially in the field of anesthetics, we are going to publish them and we are going to publish them, but the point is to find doctors to go and do not get barren, not to get out of this notice and to be able to strengthen the health structures as much as possible. In any case, because you have referred to the example of the two hospitals, the objective is hospitals, the structures - do not look at it in the building - to operate complementaryly in a context of synergy. That's why we talked about nodes hospitals and hospitals of radius where they're interconnected, they'll have full services, staff adequacy and effective provision of health services. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, too, Minister. The third question under number 952/19-7-2021 of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis will be discussed to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The dangerous functioning of the Pneumonological Clinic of the Trinity Hospital". The timely question will also be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Kontozamanis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Madam President, and as you have said, the question concerns the dangerous functioning of the ‘Thriasian’ pulmonary clinic. We as a parliamentary group transfer the request, the anxiety and the complaints of the workers' union, which are also confirmed by the documents of the doctors of the respective pulmonary clinic and the director of the hospital's medical service for the dangerous functioning of the pulmonary clinic and of course for the hospital patients. The pulmonary clinic of "Thriasian" - understandable - in addition to cases of COVID, inspires and hospitalizes, at the same time, purely pulmonary incidents, without, of course, assisting its operation by another pulmonary clinic throughout Attica. Two permanent psychologists working in this clinic are working to the extent of the director and two assistants who - I am sure - end 31 October of this year, 2021. And you understand that four experts - plus the experts - who are responsible for one department, a clinic, as is happening everywhere, throughout the previous period and within the pandemic period, were asked to deal with hundreds of incidents reaching the limits, or rather overcoming the limits of their mental and physical exhaustion. And a sample of the huge shortages in this hospital in medical staff, specialised in pulmonary staff, is that in the internal on-calls of a specialist, of course it has the responsibility of more than 50 patients, who are dispersed in different parts of the hospital, while - as I have said at the beginning - the general newspaper of the clinic, the specific clinic of the ‘Thriasian’ Hospital covers not only the pulmonary incidents of Attica, but also the Aegean islands, with two pulmonologists - specialists - one of the four who are responsible for both the emergency and the hospitality of patients, for importing and going by saying. It has not progressed so far, although requests have been made, the proclamation of the two empty organic pneumonologists currently present in the organogram, although for the safe continuation of the clinical function - as they have said - requires immediate coverage not only of the empty organic positions, but also the creation of three additional organic pneumonologists. And of course there are corresponding shortcomings in nursing staff, since they are the same workers who have given and continue to fight with the pandemic uninterruptedly for all these months, in very difficult circumstances. The questions to the Minister, Madam President, are whether or not to suspend the participation of the pulmonary clinic in the general hospital on-call until the two empty organic posts with curators (b) are directly covered and, of course, to create three additional organic posts of specialist pulmonologists. Secondly, we are asking you to strengthen the pulmonary clinic with nursing staff so as to ensure that the workers themselves function on terms and conditions, but above all for patients and, at the same time, for existing staff - not only the nursing staff, but also the other staff, of course - can use their license of three weeks, as they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lambroulis, the difficulties in operating the pulmonary clinic of the ‘Thriasia’ Hospital are well known and we are making every effort - I shall refer to this attempt - in order to ensure that it continues to function. The situation is indeed problematic. However, under no circumstances would I use the designation "hazardous" and there is no question of suspending the clinic's on-call and, of course, whenever the EMCDDA needs to protect the clinic and process the incidents at other clinics. At the moment, five doctors are serving at the clinic, and soon there will be the announcement of two extra positions of doctors to join the power of the clinic. In addition, there is authorisation for the recruitment of an adjunctive physician. Therefore, if there is an interest in a pneumonologist, it will be possible to recruit him immediately as an ancillary medical staff at the ‘Thriasio’ Hospital. And let me say that we need to see the functioning of the pulmonary clinic in a broader context, which deals with the management of pulmonary incidents in the wider area, and of course how the pulmonary clinic and doctors could cooperate with the hospital's pathology so that they could deal with these incidents. We are also in collaboration with the Hellenic Pulmonary Society. I had a useful, constructive meeting with the president of the company, Mr. Lukeides, where we exchanged views and had some good ideas on how to deal with the problem of the clinic. Also, to say, "Thriasio Hospital" has been strengthened in personnel. I mention the sixty-five ancillary nurses, who have been hired to the hospital for the past twenty months and we want to upgrade the services provided at the pulmonary clinic and proceed directly to the provision of a bronchoscopy, so as to serve the needs of our fellow citizens who come to this service at the “Thriasio” Hospital. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u40	Me too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm going to stay on this. The question is about the pulmonary clinic. I listened carefully to what you said. Firstly, you say that two vacancies will be proclaimed or planned by the empty ones, those which are reflected in the question, but also in the request by the doctors of the clinic, the hospital by extension. When? Immediate action is needed, not an vague 'will'. Secondly, you talk about an extra pulmonary adjunct that may in the next period serve the clinic. In my prototype, but also in the question, it is stated that the two ancillary pneumonologists, who work at this clinic on 31 October, are fired, in or out of import, put it as you wish. So we're talking about reducing staff by two. When are the new recruits coming? When's the assistant you're talking about? In other words, where it was four, the situation is dangerous, as we ourselves say - we do not say it - the doctors themselves say that there is a dangerous situation for the functioning of the clinic, with all this burden on a job that exists, obviously because of the pandemic and the way in which the clinic is invented, but on the other hand, the enormous shortages of staff, doctors in experts. So from October, what then? The situation will not just be dangerous. I don't want to describe it. So they're not enough. In fact, they say in particular that, beyond the two empty organic positions that exist, which you said would be proclaimed, there are three others needed. And they don't arbitraryly say that number. They call it on the basis of specific scientific data and how they have to operate clinically, as do the specific clinic on the basis of its capacity. So the actions should be immediate. Well, that's good for co-operation with pathological. Who told you that the pneumonologists don't cooperate with the pathologists? I've been at Larissa General Hospital for so many years. Don't we know that? That there is good cooperation between these specialities, because pneumonology, let me say, Madam President, is a branch of pathology, apart from being a separate speciality. There's no co-operation? Is the lack of cooperation within a hospital in terms of both incidents and their management? So immediate solutions are needed tomorrow, not to say for yesterday, doctors, hospital staff, in order to respond to the increased needs, which you know, very well, that there are also due to the COVID incidents that may be multiplied by the fourth wave, but also the current pulmonary incidents. Look, we don't have any delusion. We have told you many times that the policy followed by the current government, following on from all previous governments and in the health sector, is a policy aimed at reducing the public sector, continuing to rebuild it, strengthening its business function, declining its services. You are talking about armoured RUs, while you have not taken one measure to strengthen public health units and you have not moved forward. And this particular example of our question about the pulmonary clinic "Thriasios" is a small example of the thousands that exist throughout the country and in all hospitals and not just. You have not made substantial recruitments, with the consequences that we all live and live in hospitals, whether health workers or patients. You have transformed the public health system into a system of disease. Hundreds of people are hospitalized because we have lived this and I know it, very well, and I, and from the same experience, are hospitalized outside of the ICM, personnel exhausted and non-COVID patients, chronic patients, being forced to go to the private sector and put their hands in a deep pocket for those who have and who do not have to wait in the huge lists, created and waiting for an examination, for a check in the public hospitals. And this is a conscious choice, Madam President, of the present government, like the previous ones of course, that the national health system, which remains naked, with enormous shortages in staff and infrastructure, since, moreover, your government's plan and account is for further merchandise, issues that run, as well as the adaptation of hospitals and health centres to the logic of cost-benefits by showing your determination to complete the crime of closing critical units, which started in previous years and from previous governments. We say that our people have accumulated experience in this regard. The workers, the health workers, the fighters, the working people's movement gave an answer yesterday, as throughout the past period, by demanding immediate measures to protect their health and life from the pandemic, and at the same time to strengthen the public health system. This fight and these claims will continue in the next period and will be intensified.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lambroulis, I accept - and this is how democracy works in Parliament - that there should be disagreement, criticism of policy issues not only in health, everywhere. However, if we use the language of documentation, I think we will be able to reach agreement. The language of the documentation shall be infallible. Look at the numbers because you keep accusing us of doing nothing about the National Health System, that business interests are shaking up the public health system, that there are no recruitments. Please see the numbers again. In the last two years of the country's governance, two and a half thousand permanent doctors have been recruited. And yes, the proclamation...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u44	Not even one has been done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u45	You're wrong. I'll testify for the evidence. People are in their seats, hospitals. See the FEKs and their assignments. Let's see the numbers and we'll agree. Yes, there is a disagreement because one might say that this intake was not needed there, but it had to be done somewhere else. In the case of ancillary staff, the recruitment of permanent staff was carried out through an AEP. Four thousand permanent recruitments of nurses will be announced in September, remaining faithful to our commitment that these people need in the health system and should remain. We strengthened the health system during the pandemic more than our original programming and we continue to do so. And yes, the call will come out, and these two pneumonologists will be in, because we gather the demands from all health regions. It's a matter of a few days. And I think you're making a mistake in your mathematics because you're saying for the two assistants that their contract will end in October and so it's minus two. Let's see. There's approval of auxiliary staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u46	Does their contract end or end on 31 October? Yes or no? They don't fit in any middle-class stuff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Lambroulis, let me give you an example. These subsidiary doctors may take part in the crisis of the two pneumonologists in Triasios and be permanentized.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u48	Do it. Pick them up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u49	That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Bright, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u51	No, they're saying about our math, we don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u52	Let me finish. We are declaring permanent medical staff positions and you see that the number of auxiliary medical staff is decreasing, because these people occupy permanent posts in the National Health System. And I wish there were pneumonologists on the subsidiary list in the 2nd Health Area. We'd take not one, but two and three. To conclude, Madam President, I have never said that the pathologists do not cooperate with the pneumonologists, but because you are a doctor, Mr Lambroulis, a pneumonologist and you know them, we should finally see how various specialities and structures should also work together in the pathological field. I am referring to the pathological field because we are talking about the pulmonary clinic at the "Thriasio" Hospital. And we need to see the future. It makes no sense to patch things up and have a temporary solution. In "Thriasio" the pulmonary clinic is not qualified. Should there not be qualified doctors to train, help and, of course, take the expertise they need? So we need to see a little further than today. I told you that we recognise the situation and intervene with specific solutions to ensure the proper functioning of the clinic. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u53	Me too, Minister. The Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Kontozamanis will also answer the second question under number 954/19-7-2021 of a second-round question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Health, on "Problems of workers at the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "C. Papanikolaou’ in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki’. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. We will go, Minister, to the "Papanikolaou" Hospital in Thessaloniki a little above the limestone, where strange and unacceptable things happen. So we have too many complaints from hospital workers in their club about movements of health workers into departments in which, for health reasons, they cannot respond or are dangerous to work, we have complaints of violations of the hours and programs of nursing work. It is characteristic that nursing staff are often called by phone and at any point in time to modify their hours, are recalled at the last minute. A few hours before they are informed of the changes in their time, i.e. there is no project concept in this hospital. And, of course, we have complaints and arbitrary oral orders and a bunch of such things. The most characteristic of all is what is happening to a hospital worker, a nurse, who suffers from very serious health problems, and in particular is a fourth-degree kidney - those who know from medicine understand what I mean - on the basis of her condition should not work, while after her vaccination she should be working in a protected environment. So, what about this particular nurse? Command took her and put her in. Do you know where? In one of the most charged sections of each hospital, in the regular external medical services. So you understand the scale of the problem and what it means to be exposed to this workload and a lot of other health risks, even six months before retirement. This particular protest was protested but not heard! In any case, what we want to transfer to you and what we want to ask you and ask you is what your government, which of course has the ultimate responsibility to stop this authoritarian behaviour of the administration towards the workers of the hospital, who, of course, are workers of the hospital, as you know and as the entire Greek people know, and all the hospitals in the country, have lifted too much weight and are still up to deal with the pandemic. And, of course, what are you going to do for that nurse, so that she can rehabilitate herself in a safe environment, a few months before her retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u55	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Delis, you start your question with reference to complaints of workers at the hospital about their movements to parts in which, for health reasons, they cannot respond or are dangerous to work, as well as violations of the hours of nursing shifts, arbitrary oral orders and much more. Then you focus on the example of a nurse who, according to your own words, has serious health problems on the basis of which she should be away from work and after vaccination she should be working in a protected environment and you conclude your question with your friendly tactics to talk about authoritarianism, working middle ages and reactionary changes. Let me tell you, Mr Delis, that in a favoured rule of law these complaints are being investigated. And that's what the administration did by carrying out a sworn administrative exam, which was based on publications. I would remind you that this examination shall take place whenever the service has suspected or clearly indicated that it is intended to carry out a disciplinary action and that it is intended to collect information on the disciplinary action and identify the persons responsible, and also to investigate the circumstances under which it has been carried out. In fact, this sworn administrative examination was carried out and there was no evidence of disciplinary action and the responsibility of the persons involved. The hospital, his administration quickly displayed reflexively and with a high sense of responsibility, did everything possible and provided for in order to investigate the incident and identify indications of any disciplinary misconduct. With regard to the transfer of personnel to the external medical services, without referring to a specific incident - I say this in general - I would like to inform you that this is a measure aimed at protecting workers who must be discharged or protected. In particular, we are all aware that the service in external medicine is considered to be of a mild form of employment, less aggravating than the service in clinics. On the one hand, patients who come with an appointment are mostly walkers, on the other hand, it does not include hospitalization, and the hours are cyclical, only breakfast. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u57	Me too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u58	News is coming out of your answer, Minister. Before that, however, I must respond to what you said, the specific worker with renal impairment... According to what we said? What do you say, Minister? According to medical advice submitted to the hospital administration. It's not our guess that she's sick. In any case, we think this should be dealt with immediately. Apart from other things, apart from a business issue, it's humanitarian after all and look at it like that. The news you're talking about is that the sworn administrative exam was finally completed after the complaints of the union workers. I will present the association's announcement with the title 'We have been patient!', a communication from 24 June, which refers to these complaints. You know, we have no reason to question the unions in which workers are involved and, of course, they are involved in defending their working rights, but also in defending their fellow citizens' rights to health and wherever else. In any case, according to this completion of the sworn administrative examination, everything was found - it says - milk honey. Nothing happened, that's what you told us a moment ago. I'll testify the union announcement soon. The first thing one can say is that, at the end of the day, the responsibility - and I said in the initial position - for these kinds of authoritarian behaviours, air, and the legislative framework itself, the government itself gives it with parallel amendments which have been voted on and which, unfortunately, continue to be voted on over the last few years. Therefore, in the center of responsibility, it is not only the administration of hospitals in this authoritarian behaviour. It is also the Ministry of Health that is the government, which chooses after all these administrations too. Of course, this behaviour comes to respond - and this is the main cause - to the huge shortcomings which, unfortunately, continue to exist throughout the range of public health and hospitals. In order to cover gaps and shortcomings and to catch up with immediate needs, then, we have urgent staff movements from department to department, from hospital to hospital. Even infrastructural and equipment, it's moving, Minister! Remember the molecular analyst traveling from Xanthi to Thessaloniki and the opposite of last year. So when you do not take up the health of permanent staff to deal with the problems, when you are relying on ancillary staff, which, after all, costs nothing for the state - and you know that - because all these subsidiarys are paid from the already incomes of hospitals, when you are based on two months, three months, four months, five months, health contracts paid by various programmes, that is to say, when the state does not cost anything, which is why you have also reduced the health budget by EUR 0,5 billion in the pandemic. For 2021 you predicted 572 million below. You predicted 90 million for primary health care, health care centres in villages, towns, regional hospitals. Most of these are closed, so the vaccination programme cannot be developed, so it is being delayed so much. You know what they are, but you are going out in this environment and say - the Prime Minister himself, in fact - that we have many hospitals next door and we have to shut them down, get them even less. If that's possible! In any case, I am coming back so that we do not remember now, of course, what is happening in Serres. It also has a topicality. He wrote out the hospital itself and says that anyone who needs to operate at the hospital of Serres, unfortunately these days, will not be able, because we don't have anesthetics, to go somewhere else. This cannot be accepted, Minister! We are overcome and, of course, they go beyond the needs of our people for health. That is why you are enlisting authoritarianism, which is why you are also recruiting terrorism many times to those sanitary fighters. I will return to the question, and I will say that, even now, even at the last moment and despite the conclusion of the ESA, we think it would be good for the Ministry to "take any of this" there in the management of the Papanikolaou Hospital for this unacceptable behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u59	Me, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Delis, I would like to say once again that the SAD that had to be done was based on reports. Written complaints and specific facts were not mentioned. How can you reach a conclusion when you use it in this administrative process "I told you, you told me, he said"? There are statements, facts and, of course, the sworn administrative examination, as I have told you, has been completed and no evidence and responsibilities arise. The administration of the hospital, the Ministry of Health, all of us must be respected and appreciated by all the workers, because their contribution - you said so, and we all say so - to the fulfilment of the hospital's mission and under the current exceptional health conditions, due to the management of COVID. It makes sense in such exceptional circumstances - we are talking about a war, we all know it - that personnel movements are made in order to meet increased needs. I will come back, because your colleague, Mr Lambroulis, has said so, and many times in this Chamber - that they have not been recruited, it is the health system naked. Please see the recruitment decisions, see the staff serving the National Health System, see the staff who strengthened the National Health System during the pandemic period, and, as I said, we can at least get together on the basis of the documentation. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Ministry of Health is approaching the issues of the individual staff situation of each official separately. This is the mandate of all administrations, and this must be done by every hospital administration, acting on the basis of the principles of merit, impartiality, equal treatment and the avoidance of any form of discrimination. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the debate of the last question today, the first with number 6177/21-4-2021 question of the cycle of petitions - questions by the Member of the Evia Parliament - Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Dirk deterioration of the General Hospital - Health Center (GN - CY)'. The question will also be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health Mr Kontozamanis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u62	I shall begin, Minister, with my position on a matter that has recently emerged, but I refer to my question three months ago, which concerns your planning for the closure or merger of regional hospitals. I am primarily interested in the Kymi Hospital, which also faced in 2014 the risk of abolishing and converting it into a simple health center, a decision that was not served by our government in 2015. On the contrary, for us, it was a headline for the substantial upgrading in 2015-2019, despite the strict financial framework, as you know. The Kymi Hospital was not only upgraded by logistics, but also strengthened by medical and other staff, significantly improving the level and range of services provided to the inhabitants and visitors of the wider area. Today, about two years after the government change of 2019, the provision of health services at Kymi Hospital has clearly degraded. In addition, the departures of medical chief personnel are not made up, but also the staff of the hospital are often used to cover functional gaps in other health structures of the ERC. Last and most unpleasant development is the functional collapse of the pathological sector, which is unable to cover its daily program, which means that the hospital cannot function. So answer us, Minister, are your intentions to degrade the Centre for Health - Kymi Hospital in a health centre? And, secondly, what do you intend to do about the immediate reinforcement of the Kymi Hospital, especially in high-level departments and clinics?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, since you have asked a number of questions, I will be clear: the aim of the government is to upgrade the National Health System, structures and infrastructure. We never talked about downgrading services, and now is the time, now is the opportunity to be able to do that. I will mention in greater detail what we have done and what we have received from your own administration. I do not think it is a downgrading of the General Hospital of Kymi to start, recently, the CT scanner, a consistent demand that meets needs. And, of course, it's not a downgrading of our will to introduce a pediatric clinic, which will have to interconnect with Skyros, because that's where we've been faced with a chronic problem. We've covered a pediatrician's location on the island. And Skyros must be interconnected with Kymi and we are in this process. As far as the first part of your question is concerned, the acute problem of the non-information of the pathological sector, as you say, has never been interrupted and any gaps which may arise are directly covered by the movement of general doctors from regional medical establishments. We are all aware of the problems that exist and the shortcomings in specific qualifications. I referred to the speciality of anesthesiology. Pathology is another specialty where the problem is acid. With the second question you ask us to inform you what we are going to do to strengthen the hospital in departments and clinics. The following actions have been taken to serve medical staff. By three decisions in 2020 and 2021 seven posts in specialist doctors were declared. Of these two surgical and medical biopathology specialists are under service, three radiology specialists, orthopaedic and pediatric specialists are expected to take over soon because they are pending the publication of their appointment in the Official Journal of the Government, and two internal pathology specialists became barren. Regarding the recruitment of subsidiary doctors in the 5th Health Area list of subsidiary doctors there was no interest in doctors in pediatric and psychiatric specialty. And then another approval by the Ministry of Health was received by an AD specialist for orthopaedic specialists. Recruitment planning for the year 2021 is the recruitment we have announced, which we will shortly proceed with. An internal pathology, an internal pathology or general medicine and an ophthalmology position has been requested by the Centre for Health of Kymi. Now, as far as nursing and other staff are concerned, an official of the Department of Medicine and Biological Labs has been employed under the 2K notice, while the 6K notice, which is in the process of completion by the AACC, has been announced a place of nursing, a place of TE Radiology and Radiology and a position of TE Mechanics. Twenty people of different specialties have been recruited from the list of ancillary staff. Also, because you said that during the SYRIZA ruling period the hospital was upgraded and strengthened by medical and other staff, while in the last two years it has been downgraded, I will say this. In July 2019, when we took over the rule of the country, the medical staff who served at the Kymi Hospital numbered twenty-seven people, and today they are serving twenty-five, while the service of all three chosen, the medical staff will reach twenty-eight. Also, nursing staff and other staff in July 2019 numbered a hundred and seven people, and today there are a hundred twenty - one people. In conclusion, I would like to mention - you know - that at the Kymi Health Center there are six regional doctors serving five general doctors and a rural doctor, as well as a very powerful regional doctor in Skyros, in which five doctors and seven nurses and other staff are serving. I stress once again the successful outcome of the coverage of the position of the pediatrician and our plan to interconnect Skyros with a pediatric clinic at Kymi Hospital. It is important to emphasise the contribution of Kymi Hospital and its decentralised structures to the national effort to tackle pandemic, both through the operation of vaccination lines and through molecular and other diagnostic tests. Finally, in reply to your third question, I would like to inform you that at the initiative of the government, the administration of the 5th Health Region, the commander of the General Hospital of Chalkida and the administration of the hospital, a proposal to amend the existing hospital agency, the most important points of which are the following: the establishment and creation of cross-sectoral sections with the simultaneous inclusion of a department of daily hospitalisation, the establishment of an independent department of organization and computer, the setting up of five organic posts of qualified ESS doctors, in order to ensure the smooth and orderly functioning of hospitals with the specific specialities, due to the increased needs that have arisen. As I said, it's the CT scanner, which is already in operation, the digital masturbator and so on. I continue: fourthly, redistribution of organic posts of other staff, which relate to abolitions and recommendations of organic posts and fifthly, redistribution of parts of the nursing service. I think it is clear that nothing but your claim to deterioration the General Hospital of Kymi is correct. We have safeguarded and demonstrated further what we have received from your government, and in our design, as I said at the beginning, the modernisation of the health services provided by it. In conclusion, I think - and I said this before - that the conditions have matured following the experience of the pandemic to see the importance of each health structure, not individually, but part of the wider framework of structures that make up the region's health map and the health map throughout the country. So in no case of deterioration. Upgrade health services throughout the territory. In such a context, each structure gains added value and importance, calling for it to function in addition to the other structures of a wider area, so that the health services provided meet all the needs of the local residents. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u65	Me too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u66	Minister, I have raised in my narrative the question of your intention to abolish the Kymi Regional Hospital and for another reason. There is a direct danger for Evia, because there is another similar Health Center - Hospital, that of Karystos, and of course, as a prospect for us directly, the need for the Health Centre to turn this into a Health Center - Hospital, because it is absolutely necessary for an isolated, not only road but also health Evia to have an elementary primary care service. It is true that in Kymi, medical staff, nursing staff, administrative staff, everyone is making a great effort to respond to the burden they have. Today, in the case of vaccinations, they are actually trying not only to respond to local needs but also to areas where they need vaccination, but also to try to speed up these procedures in this climate. But, Minister, we need permanent staff. Especially in these areas, find a way. Incentives for doctors to remain, because after a period of five to six months we lost them, they are gone and you understand that there is a big problem. I told you about the pathology because the hospital can't do any more on-calls since he doesn't have the necessary doctors. I, Minister, have your commitment that staff needs will be met immediately, and of course I have your commitment that there is no case for the abolition or degradation of the Kymi hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Apostle, you also know them better as a Member of the region. It is known that Evia has peculiarities due to its geography. Of course there are needs that need to be met. You referred to Satisfy's Health Center. It is in an area that is clearly far from the Hospital of Chalkida and we need to meet needs. That is why we have made progress in the creation - reflected in the body - a unit of artificial kidneys, so that we can serve our fellow citizens there so that they do not suffer and move towards Chalkida or towards Central Greece so that they can carry out dialysis. I told you on Skyros we have a pediatrician now. Skyros is across Kymi. We will proceed to the creation of a pediatric clinic in Kymi to be interconnected with Skyros, so that it can meet the needs not only of Skyros but also of the wider area. All this is done on the basis of a plan, because I said - and I think we all recognise this - that it is not a time to waste forces. There must be synergies and partnerships, one structure complements the other, so that we can cover the whole range of health services and serve our fellow citizens. That's what we do, nothing less, nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. It is known to the House that the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics submits its report to the Prosecutor's request for the authorisation of criminal prosecution against a Member. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-21-S1-commons.u70	With the consent of the House at 10.59 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 22 July 2021, at 10 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
