ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Election of Municipal and Regional Authorities". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 27 May 2021 to discuss the draft law in one and, if necessary, to place a second single meeting on the principle, articles and amendments. I would like to inform you at this point that a hundred and ten colleagues have already been registered. So, take the view that we will be going in two days and we do not yet know as the Bureau the moods of the political leaders. So we're definitely going for two days and almost complete for two days. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is proposed that a combination of physical presence and teleconferencing service should be held in twelve-member circles including speakers per parliamentary group: five from the New Democracy, three from the SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. The names of the speakers have already been designated by the Parliamentary Groups by letters and the competent authority has drawn up a list to be distributed to you. I would remind you that speakers who will be put through a teleconferencing conference will speak as soon as the speakers' cycles are completed in a natural presence. According to the number of speakers appointed by the parliamentary groups, I propose that the House be given - I have already said it - and a second sitting on Wednesday immediately after parliamentary scrutiny, which will be just one hour, that is to say from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. Addendums will not be accepted except for mutual changes. Does the basic proposal of the procedure agree with the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Before calling on the first rapporteur in Step, the Minister wants to make a five-minute position to explain the amendment concerning the Golden Dawn, so that speakers can take it into account from the outset, even though they wish to put themselves in their prototype, even though the rapporteurs will have a second word tomorrow. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I have spoken to the committee by presided over the tabling of a number of amendments concerning the Ministry of the Interior. Indeed, these amendments have been tabled in due course and I have also presided over that I am going to accept amendments which come from other ministries. Indeed, an amendment from the Ministry of Finance was tabled on Monday beforehand and the Minister will come to justify both the delay and the amendment. I had not informed the committee about the tabling of this amendment, which, in my opinion, regulates an important issue, but which has been tabled in due course. Therefore, there is no question of an excuse in this respect. However, I would like to say a little bit about the substance of this amendment which is of particular importance. What is the issue that has arisen and which we have to deal with? I would remind you of a criminal prosecution against MPs and the Golden Dawn leadership. This criminal prosecution - I would remind you of the facts - was followed by an act by the then Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Denkias, - one was the act - and it was purely procedural in nature and concerned the combination of documents, so that all the documents can be taken into account by the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena in order to determine whether the conditions are met for the prosecuting of a criminal organization by the leadership of the Golden Dawn and some members of it. He then judged the Marios Ice, instituted the prosecution, judged the competent authorities, some of them were confiscated and then imprisoned, followed by the persecution, and their case was avenged by the Tripartite Court of Crimes. I would remind you that at the time there was only one other political action, the temporary cessation of the financing of the Golden Dawn. That's what's happened. The judgment was given, the defendants were rejected, sentenced to severance sentences, applications for suspension of their sentence were rejected and are currently serving their sentence. But there is a fundamental contradiction at the moment. We have convicted prison sentences for the formation and address of a criminal organization, but they still play the leaders of parties. And that is an issue that needs to be addressed. Can it be dealt with by depriving their political rights, depriving them, first of all, of the right to vote and then of the right to stand as elected? The answer is negative. Why? Because the Constitution stipulates that for the deprivation of the electoral right, the right to vote, there is a need for an irrevocable sentence. For the non-individuals in law, the irrevocable what is it? It's a conviction, which has been judged and finished by the Marble Ice. The final decisions of the courts are the final decisions of the Courts of First Instance. Today we have a final decision, a first-degree decision. However, this is a reality that we have a final decision, which he judged and, at the same time, we have condemned with this final decision, which are playing the political parties' leaders, they are sending out of court to Parliament, asking for private funding to be approved or for coupons to be issued. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Please, a little more time, Mr President. I won't be late. We have such things that, in my view, create a deep internal contradiction within the aspects of the legal order. In other words, on the one hand, justice has come and said that they are directors and members of a criminal organisation and, on the other hand, the administrative place seems to have not reacted, not to have heard that. I think it is a mature moment - we have been very concerned about it - to take some measures to remove this contradiction. We cannot, as I said, deprive ourselves of the right to vote, and here it goes hand in hand with the fact that, on the basis of Article 29, we cannot lead to deprivation, since we cannot deprive the vote, nor is it elected. But we can impose administrative restrictions. And I stress this, administrative constraints. Here we regulate the functioning of the parties, with this intervention, not the political rights of the convicts, but, I repeat, the functioning of the parties. So do we come with these provisions and what do we say? On the one hand, there is already a regulation in the first article of the amendment, but, in fact, irrevocable condemnation, it concerns the deprivation here of the right to vote, but this is for irrevocableness, it is not now applicable, it is in future if there is irrevocable conviction. Secondly, we come and set limitations. So what do we say? That if a party chooses to have to the members of its administration, its leadership, its boards of directors, its administrative committees or a legal representative of such a person who has been definitively convicted, this party cannot participate in the elections. What else do we say? That this party cannot, that is why we are creating an incompatibility so that it holds such a convicted position in a political party. Similarly, we are creating a ban on financing - such parties that have in positions of such a conviction - private funding, of course - I am not discussing it - for public policy, anyway that is what is meant and done. We also exclude those parties that have such convicted persons in service from broadcasting. These provisions are sure to give rise to a legal debate and that is why I am forgiven by this House for extensive development. Perhaps I will be able to come back here. For me, the main point is that, in view of the constitutional prohibitions which do not allow us to be deprived of civil rights, we are laying down regulations, rules on the functioning of political parties and sanctions in the political parties, if they choose to have them as head, namely those condemned as head. Because a criticism can be heard that this is not enough or can be circumvented, I would like to stress the following: What any political parties of this type will do - in fact, neo-nazi political parties - and if they want to have these people as their leaders, is their own problem. The most important thing to me is that the Greek Parliament must unite to show that such political behaviour, such political participation, such use and expression in positions of party people who are already doomed to this type of act we are describing, is something that cannot be tolerated. This is the government's legislative initiative and I hope that the parties will support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u5	What do you want now? You'll be seated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u6	The amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u7	You will be present in your speech on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u9	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u10	In any case, in order not to waste time, you have three minutes, because you have heard that we are a hundred ten, except for the Heads of State. If we start and waste time... Mr. Ragousis first, Mr. Scandalidis and Mr. Karathanasopoulos afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u11	I do not know now honestly whether you know, Mr Voridis, the debate that has taken place in Parliament on this matter, when the Golden Dawn decision came out, in October 2020, that is, a few months ago, essentially. Just this proposal the day after the condemnation of the Golden Dawn came here and we tabled as a Civic Opposition and precisely this proposal your predecessor - and unfortunately not alone, but also representatives of other parties - rushed to denounce it at that time, saying that it was all the fault of a three-story Criminal Code and the amendments made to it. And we told him then that the solution is one and it is the amendment of Presidential Decree 26/2012 which lays down electoral law and that so we can really deprive these criminal elements of the opportunity to rejoin the country's political life. We are not just positive, but we were also speeding up this amendment. However, on the substance of the matter - because we are also constantly working on the legal aspects, because I imagine that nobody here wants, Mr President, at the end of the day to appear or locate gaps - on the substance of any observation or amendment we will then propose it, but I would say that we all have to bear in mind that this is the road and that the initial government approach was wrong, that this was not the road. To be honest, Mr Lebanese only admitted it at that time, in contrast to Mr Theodorikos and, here I am, the results, that this vote should go ahead in order to close this path in these criminal elements. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u12	Here, Mr. Scandalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u13	Minister, we consider the initiative to be positive. We just want you to allow us during this sitting and tomorrow to process it a little from a legal and political point of view, if there is a need for correction or a change.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u14	I think the Minister left this open. Whatever is to be improved and shielded further, you will discuss it. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, such a serious issue could not come in the form of the amendment, but should come in and follow the normal procedure, be able to study the committees, be placed in the committees, possibly - I say - and be able to have a more detailed debate. We say this because we consider the second part of the position of the Minister to be essential. It's a pretext for confronting Golden Dawn. On the substance, it may not be dealt with and descended by the Golden Dawn as long as it does not have these people in its management core. What is he doing on the substance? And here's the danger. On the substance of the matter, he tries to check the statutes, the way in which they are organized and the election of the parties who can make it up, and indeed that control should be in the criminal register. And precisely because there are series of provisions not only concerning neo-fascist parties, but also concerning terrorists, they concern the reduction of democratic and trade union rights, that is, the right to strike, from other issues, disruption of public peace and a number of other criminal matters, which are directly related to the mass activities of the movement, and we are very afraid that affluent provisions will be drawn up on the basis of that logic. From this point of view, we say it clearly, we cannot accept this logic, much more when we know that in the European Union with the anti-communism that exists, there are communist parties that are banned from political life. We are therefore concerned about this. We call for the amendment to be withdrawn from this bill and debated much more thoroughly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u16	Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u17	For seconds, Mr President, our opinion on the amendment tabled by the Minister is also heard. We support that self-evidently.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u18	Good. We therefore begin with the rapporteur-General of the New Democracy, Mr Panaya Kapato. A request to keep time, reminding the hundreds of ten registered. Here, Mr. Cappato, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to congratulate the Minister for his amendment, and I hope that Parliament will accept it as a whole. This move, Minister, proves that democracy has the means and means to protect and continue our democratic civilisation in our country without having any problem and fear at all. I now come to today's theme in the bill. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is taking place today in plenary session of the Greek Parliament and then the vote on a draft law which has been passed by Parliament and which has actually been dealt with in the committee responsible. I say this because I think that in order to develop our ideas, our positive attitude and our objections, it is important that the legislation on which we are discussing takes the form of that form, a form in which no one will doubt, on the one hand, what we are talking about and, on the other, how we have come to formulate the final text. The election of municipal and regional authorities is therefore an example of such a legislative process, a procedure of good legislature, and it is important that we have come to Parliament before hearing those who are concerned. From the Central Association of Municipalities and Communities and the Union of Regions to the representatives of municipal and Community councils, we have been able to reconcile this draft law. Of course, in a democratic parliamentary process it makes sense to raise disagreements, objections, concerns. It is equally logical, however, that the political process concerns the feasibility and how we want the local government to function properly, effectively, effectively and with a normal flow that is not suppressed by institutional terrestrial and deliberate legislative obstacles. That is what the mayors and the regional leaders of the country have told us. That is what we are introducing in this draft law. With the Ministry of Home Affairs bill, we are therefore attempting to effectively regulate issues relating to candidateship, voting and the promotion of the Municipal and Regional Authorities. We favour the reintroduction and safeguarding of the rule of law in the municipalities and regions of the country through the abolition of the mere analogousity that SYRIZA has implemented, an application which has had disastrous consequences for the smooth functioning of local government bodies. This is, of course, a finding that is not just the result of us, but of the institutional bodies which we listened carefully to at the relevant meeting of the Committee on Public Administration. The restoration, therefore, of the orderly functioning of local government and the fulfilment of its mission for the benefit of local societies is a priority implemented by this draft law. What, then, are the key changes that we are promoting in this emblematic bill? We're reintroducing the five-year term. The mayors and districtlors who will emerge from the elections of 8 October 2023 will have a full five-year term starting on 1 January 2024. We are setting the limit from the first round to 43% plus one vote. We are shaping the 3% threshold for the right to elect a municipal or regional consultant. The limit is, on the one hand, independent of the number of members of the board concerned and, on the other, aligned with the applicable limit in the national elections. We provide for the election of councils or presidents of municipal communities throughout the territory without exception. This is a regulation that responds to requests from local communities, where, in particular, for communities with a population of up to three hundred, each may have more than one candidate. The President is elected the first in crosses, regardless of combination from the first round. With regard to the submission of the applications, it is only by means of combinations and a statement submitted to the "gov.gr" electronic portal at the choice of the candidate with his father name or register. We set a final date on 31 August of the year of the election for the preparation and declaration of the combinations and on 10 September for the proclamation of them by the competent court. We therefore offer the timeframe to ensure that there is full control of the electoral expenditure and that candidates are informed in good time to the electorate. We define the number of members of municipal and regional councils, as well as municipal community councils on the basis of specific population scales. We provide for a rational reduction in the number of members of the boards with a view to rationalising, without creating a problem with the smooth functioning of the Ottawas. We streamline and systematically streamline the framework of election and incompatibility barriers, taking into account the comments made in the context of public consultation. We are recasting clearly and fully the procedural provisions relating to disputes relating to the elections of the Local Government bodies. For the elections to be held by municipal and regional authorities, we take into account the permanent population as reflected in the results of the last census. Finally, the elected district minister shall, during his term of office, be in the suspension of his professional activity. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to fully understand the importance of our legislative intervention in the election of the municipal and regional authorities, it is important to record the time, the political environment, if you wish, within which we legislate. What does that mean, practically? The last elections for the election of the authorities of local government took place two years ago. This means that the mayors, the districtlors, but above all the citizens themselves, were able to form a full picture of the distortion that the model of distribution of the seats of the mere analogue resulted in the day-to-day life of the administration, the municipalities and regions of the country. The next elections will take place about two and a half years after the adoption of this draft law. This is a long time enough for the local government agencies to prepare themselves for the next day, so that the transition to the new institutional framework takes place smoothly and for the benefit of Greek citizens. The mid-term between recent and subsequent elections to the Electoral and Regional Authorities is the one called by us as neutral political time. It is the time we bring this bill to a debate in the Greek Parliament, while at the same time having a luxury, on the one hand, not to legislate under the pressure of the upcoming elections, with everything that implies for the quality of our dialogue and democracy, on the other hand, to take serious account of the experience of the two years of experience of the municipal and regional authorities in the current period. It is the unpleasant experience of mayor and regional authorities with lack of decision-making in councils and the disharmony between the will of citizens and the relations to local and regional administrations. This bill therefore comes to lift and correct the distorting circumstances caused by the law of SYRIZA's mere analogy. The rule of law to which the majority of municipal authorities have led and the obstacles to their effective operation and good administration have been deprived by the citizen by works and services which he is entitled to enjoy. The implementation of one of the New Democracy's main pre-election commitments is therefore moving towards the formation of these conditions, so that local government finally acquires a functional and developmental character. In view of the very important and very substantial debate which has taken place in the committee responsible, my detailed presentation of the draft law is of little importance. I am only content with the descriptive analysis of the structure and content of the bill of the Ministry of Interior. The draft law extends to six parts and ninety-two articles. Part I, composed of nine chapters, deals with the election of the Municipal Authorities. It includes articles on the administration of municipal and municipal communities, voters, the right to vote, voters, the right to vote. It also contains articles on the electoral districts and the seats of municipal councils, the combinations, the candidates and the election programme. The form of the lists is provided for, as well as for the cross-references, as well as for the combinations of the successors and the successors, the distribution of the seats, and the election of the presidents and councillors of municipal communities. The same Party includes articles relating to the transmission and publication of results up to and including the proclamation of successful and comprehensible combinations, swearing, supplementing consultants, and the dissolution of boards. Part II contains exactly what I mentioned just now adapted to the institutional requirements and needs of regional authorities. Part C lists the general provisions for the electoral process, such as electoral records, voting ballots, as well as the application of legislation on the election of MPs. Part IV deals with the electoral dispute procedure, amendments to the Code of Administrative Procedure and the re-election in case of cancellation. Part E includes the final delegated, transitional and repealed provisions, and Part F - and lastly - contains the provisions relating to the entry into force of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most characteristic findings we use in public and parliamentary dialogue is that of Paul Bakoyannis, that in democracy there are no dead ends. Dialogue, the sincere desire to resolve a malfunction that is recognised as such, and ultimately the facilitation of the daily lives of citizens, is evidence to enable us to hope that, in whatever dead ends, the coordinate state is in a position to give the necessary solution. The case of local government is another good reason to take the current legislative initiative. It is also our duty and obligation to support the municipalities and regions of our country, because we believe in the process of decentralisation and in practice support its institutional survival, because we consciously want citizens to have the right to enjoy services provided under normal institutional conditions, but also the obligation to control the realities of the local and regional authorities that they elect. I conclude with the urge to vote positively in this draft law, a project that supports local government, strengthens the role of Greek citizens as citizens, favours democracy at every level and eliminates any institutional deadlock in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Pecha, where is the Minister listening to the speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. The rapporteur-general now has the floor from SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance Mr Miltiades Hatzigiannakis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin the speech with the last words given by my colleague, that the Greek society, the Greek state, must support local self-government and multi-level governance. In that, I think, we'll all agree. I would also say a little bit, positive and not negative, that the reference to Paul Bakoyannis's words that democracy has no dead ends. Also, I'll agree. But, Mr President, despite the fact that I fully agree with the closure of your speech, this is in complete contrast with the bill we are coming to vote on today. In absolute contrast! And to explain, obviously, we must support local self-government, which we do not see how you achieve it, and with your current policy, as well as with today's bill. I'll explain more thoroughly in my speech. However, that is exactly what we were saying and we tried to implement with the legislative initiative that we took in 2018, that exactly, democracy has no dead end, democracy must solve problems. And that's why we brought a law that finally established mere proportionalness to self-government. Because that is precisely the concept of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, that democracy must and must teach the citizens and especially those involved in politics that they must cooperate and not create artificially deadlocks. But we will see why and what exactly the government is going to achieve with today's bill and what exactly the Prime Minister said a few months ago, just nine months ago, less than nine months ago, from the step of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition himself. "Of course, in self-government...", I read the statements by Mr.Mitsotakis on September 12 from the step of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, "...until the end of the year...", in the year 2020, "...the draft law on multi-level governance will have been tabled to the vote. To finalise the responsibilities of the central state, the decentralised administrations, the regions and the municipalities at last." And today we have - good month already - 1 June 2021, we can do the calculation, it has been six months since the end of 2020, that is, we have spent half 2021, and a multi-level governance bill, despite official prime ministers, not yet seen. Instead, we will vote tomorrow, as we obviously agreed on the two days of the procedure, the system of indicating only the mayors, the district directors, the municipal and regional councils. As many people have said quite rightly during the debate in the committees, 'the cart in front of the oxen' once again. In fact, as soon as you took over as government, you had announced and set up the Cologne Committee. You have also invited people of self-government from various actors and political regimes to work out the famous multi-level governance. You mentioned even your own, the one you so advertise, the Pissaridis report. So where are these findings? When did the Contiadis Commission stop and what are its findings? She has asked you many times in the committees and Mrs Liikanouli. You yourself have made progress in setting up these committees, but in a magical way, as usual, you have all disappeared. First of all, the committee itself has ceased to meet on the pretext of the pandemic for fourteen months. But you've never even seen any findings made by Mr. Contiadis. Perhaps the signal that Greece is utopian in the resources of self-government among the members of the Monetary Union with 2.8% of the government budget, while the second worst country in Portugal has 8%, it was not your service, it was not your account and everything that was correctly set by the majority colleague, but which unfortunately do not apply to government policy. Let us assume, then, that your proposal for the election of municipal and regional authorities is promotional and innovative and that it is not a return to the failed solutions of the past, which again under the responsibility of the New Democracy Government in 2006 had come and brought us back to much older models, to models of purely majority. Because let us not forget - let us not make a historical regression - that there were worse majority models in post-war Greece, which gave the whole majority of the combination it had achieved. No one was represented, that is, in the collective bodies. And we're talking about the government of Papagos. But I don't want to go that far. Let's go to 2006. Since this framework has to say that it needs substantial reforms that are pending, what is the point of today's debate, namely bringing the institutions to show, the electoral law of self-government, before the debate on competences? The answer is simple. In no way are you interested in the serious problems of self-government and the regions and the underfunding they all have. All you're interested in is serving the pursuits of your own mayors. Today's bill comes to complete a crime that began with the legislation of the former head of the Ministry of Interior with Mr. Theodorikos and with parallel provisions he nullified, unprecedentedly disappeared the decisive competence of municipal and regional councils. In fact, we have gone far behind all European political and legal issues. We may also be the only country in the European Union that now has the regional and municipal councils, which, according to the European Charter of Local Autonomousity, are the main bodies of local government, we have made them simple observers and applauders. And what are you doing? In the name of so-called cyberdynamicity, you delete the institutional guarantees that prevent the majority's almightyness. You are guaranteeing the election of the mayor or the district of 43%, without even the popular legitimacy of 50 plus 1% that you carried us a year ago, while you were government and told us, when you changed the transfer of powers to the economic committees, that the mayor has increased political legitimacy, because he has voted for it, even on the second Sunday, 50 plus 1%. You also resurrect this because you very simply want to serve the "blue" mayors. You are deleting pluralism, setting the arbitrary limit of 3% for the election of a municipal or regional consultant, without any reason in the public interest, as we can discuss that is happening in the central political scene. You delete cooperation, codecision and remove the separate call for the communities established by 'CLOTHEN I'. You cancel the possibility of separate local lists in urban communities and districts, delete consensus and promote participation only every five years, when citizens are invited to vote. In fact, this is your understanding of both democracy and representation, but also of what citizens you want. You don't want active citizens. You want civilian applause that will simply follow your own citizens. You can no longer hide. The neo-imperial model of counter-reformation must be applied throughout multi-level governance: emperor Prime Minister, king republic, mayor, elected by the people with over-optimistic systems that will form mechanisms to minimise social and democratic control. You have made methodically an article toward an anti-democratic and anti-autonomous electoral system, an electoral system that distorts popular vote, activated security margins with the sole aim of preventing pluralism and the establishment and consolidation of an authoritarian and opaque system of governance, controlled by you and your own people. It is a long way from the examples of how this draft law is based on an article, which is actually trying to establish this system and consolidate it. It is trying to favour the current elected municipal and regional authorities, it is assumed in the context of rationalisation. I would like to ask: What exactly rationalisation is achieved by the proposed reduction in municipal councils? What will be the quantitative and qualitative benefits? You have not explained this to us in the committees, nor does the bill itself. There is no reason, because there is simply no reason to reduce. At the same time, however, you are increasing the candidates. While you are reducing the seats of the city council, the candidates are increasing. It is clear that your only objective - as is the abolition of the Community's councils there - is to make it difficult for the path of political movements and independent voices, which will be very difficult to find candidates, even if they can cover the minimum limits. Obviously, in competition - or competition, as you say - that always has an election battle, it will be in an unfavourable position, because it is quite simply that the municipal and regional authorities who have municipal administration and other means - I think that this is perceived in all of us - have much more potential, much more time, much more resources, so that they can find more candidates. So you also falsify this stage of the electoral process, because that's very simply what you're trying to achieve with this bill. What you are interested in, of course, in all these provisions is that accidents should not be repeated, such as the recent regional council of Attica, which officially voted against your current bill and was a spot on the other hand - because you put it here - almost unanimous support for your draft by the bodies of the local government or the municipality of Heraklion, the fourth municipality of Greece, which decided on the same basis. They have not just denounced your bill, the way and the method you bring, but they have spoken of unacceptable restrictions and exclusions. This is what you are trying to avoid, because you understand that you cannot control local government and are trying to find legal and political terminology to succeed and transform self-government into your feud. As far as the communities are concerned, we have heard them from all the institutions. The truth is that only the presence of the local communities in the committee proved that the corresponding "KLITHENI I" has achieved the purpose it sought, because we saw people structured, people who knew what they were saying, with political formation and especially with stress to succeed in their local communities, in their villages and to be able to help the local communities. We have told you that it is very difficult, especially for the districts, the towns, the major municipalities, to be next to the municipality, when the city's seat is very far away, decentralised, very far from too many villages. We have many examples within Greece of municipalities made up of too many communities and that are humanly impossible to help. In fact, you went to turn it against what we told you, Minister. We told you that the mayor is unable to be in everyday life next to the problems that each village of its municipality has, when it has seventy, eighty and ninety villages. It's obvious. He has to sit in the seat and in the former Capodyrian municipalities, but also go to his former communities. It is humanly impossible that only one mayor with his vice mayors can be everywhere, and that is exactly what the arrangement of local communities has achieved. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not be late, Mr President. You therefore abolish the separate call and prevent the collectives, the institutions, but above all the citizens who care and who have proved themselves by the recent elections that they gave more to elect the local communities, because they have just thought that the state was first willing to stand by them and gave them the right to elect - on their own, without necessarily following mayor's orders - but they also gave them the resources to solve the small, very small issues. He gave them the decisive authority of their village. That's what this is about. The communities, unfortunately, want to follow the mayor's model that you have established and you want to serve each "blue" mayor. I close, saying it's obvious that SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance has a completely different concept of self-government. It is our primary principle of cooperation, political cooperation and the possibility of including rather than alienating and creating interdependence rather than dependency. We want to unleash knowledge, experience, visions, but above all to enable citizens to deal with their country's commons. That was our target. We have quite a different view of political participation. We believe that the idea that unfortunately has passed on to our citizens must be eradicated, that every five years, when we vote, we are good voters, but when we are called upon to participate in the daily problems of our country, we are unnecessary. Starting from the municipalities and regions, we consider that it is and should build local democracy at the level that directly interacts with the daily lives of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Hatzigiannakis, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u24	I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you, too. So our difference is that we are trying to see forward, at the same time as you are taking a dip in the past and presenting it as modernization. It is obvious that we are voting against the draft law and that we will start a debate as a SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance with all the progressive people of local government and politics, in order to achieve the self-government we want, the self-government that the rest of Europe has, while we are turning to old models. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u25	My colleague, Evangelia Lykoulis, from the Change Movement, has the floor as a special investor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Good month, everybody. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in discussing all these days in the relevant committee of Parliament this bill brought by your government to the vote, I remembered the first classes of gymnastics, when our teachers were trying to explain to us what is the earlier figure. And I have come to an end, Minister, that it suits you perfectly. First you comb and then you wash. You're the government of the late. And of course, the problem in your case - and in our own fatefulness with you - is that unfortunately you are not just a form of speech, but you are a shape of work. You create a virtual reality in the Greek people and you even live with saspins and emotions, as your Government creates Genesis. In the pandemic, with even daily losses of dozens of fellow people, so that we do not forget about society in a multi-faceted agony and the economy in a constant recession, with businesses trying to come back if they have not definitively left business life, with serious concern about the reduction of minimum rights and conquered freedoms, which a peculiar hostage of the conditions has brought - I wonder, however, whether it will be left to remain? - with democracy in redefinition of values and dogmas in the post-war period, we are today discussing in Parliament a bill on changing the way in which municipalities and regions are elected. That's what your government put into priority. Society is a boiling cauldron, with children looking for hope abroad, unemployment galloping, young scientists frustrated and middle-aged people in despair, and what is of interest to the Government of New Democracy is how the mayor and the district manager will be elected in 2023, please. In fact, not only how it will be elected, but how it will get a dowry along with the party and the decorative municipal or regional council from the first Sunday, to get the map the right color of the elections, preferably the blue one. Really, how tragicly old? But that's what the government of the late. The late, because there has been no attempt to link self-government and decentralisation to the country's development chain for two years now. You are the oldest, because there was no plan for the new self-government of the new era, new conditions and new needs. You are the oldest, because you have never discussed with anyone how the regions and municipalities can be involved in the real liberation of the country's creative and productive forces, the "new wealth" we say the self-government. And today our resignation, the prolongation of the PASOK and the Change Movement stands at this step, Minister, with historical pride and political right. Our prolongation, the great democratic progressive party, is the one that has been linked to all the major changes that have taken place in the country. It is no longer questionable by anyone. In particular, democratic changes in the state and institutions. Everyone else stood or stood across, voted against, talked about abolishing the changes, reacted in every means and manner. On the rails of these large sections today the country is moving: in the major areas of the SAEP, the JEP, the "GENERAL" for the public administration, the conversion of the six and a half thousand municipalities and communities - then the publishing agencies, I remind you - to modern political organisations initially with the "KAPETITORI" and then, with three hundred and twenty-five municipalities and thirteen regions, to the establishment of the Information Society, "TAXIS", the establishment of research institutions, e-government. We don't have a precedent. Another look. We do not have the illusion that everything has been solved and that we have done everything right. I am one of those who say that at the Step of the House, because I consider it a sacred policy, one should first make his own self-criticism. So self-clearing comes and mistakes of the past are corrected, but we all dare to do that. So we have come to tell the historical truth that most of us have done so. We therefore have the political right to talk about the next major progressive step that the country needs, and it needs it now. Without the exclusive and innovative role of self-government, the sense of insecurity, insecurity and alienation that the citizen feels today cannot be tackled. Where do you live? Don't you see that? We're the only ones who see them? Or do you think we're here to make opposition, my Minister, for the self-government in which we live, we all live, is part of the piece of each and every part of our flesh? Without the autonomous, strong and innovative role of local and regional authority there is no "oxygen" in democracy, there is no "refresh". It is imperative that action be taken now, as urgent as ever. And of course, the electoral system plays a role in self-government, but unfortunately, once again you have come to disappoint us, having as a follow-up to what you are doing today. You cut off and sewed up a electoral law. You think this will save you. You know the continuity of the past, you know what the country has been through, you know how strict data we have to deal with and now after the pandemic and you are there in the same way. In no case do we say that Kalikaratis, for example, which we made are the plates of Moses or the sacred Gospel that must not, of course, be modernised. The issue is in what direction, in which system, with what modern demands of society. You made the Final State. Cic, I'm not saying! But beyond the theory, in practice what did you do? Cumulatives and, in fact, nothing. Were you able to fight society and self-government by creating a system that you will deliver to the citizens, will you ensure more participation and more democracy? Did you give a progressive sign? Like it's a curse! And finally, in comparison, unfortunately, because the comparison is the one that counts, it seems that we are going backwards and backwards. The forty pages of the Contiadis Committee's report that I mentioned to the committees, and that you cannot hide it, you cannot tell us that a report of ideas, an opening of this to the theoretical and legal science, but also to the fifth of the concepts of self-government that need to be updated, which we need to rediscover the Ariadne mit from the beginning and to regain the message that society itself gives. One hundred and forty pages of report and lost. Whoever doesn't want to ferment, my Minister, forty days is sifting, they say in my place. Unfortunately, however, a serious basis for discussion has been lost, but also a roadmap leading to the issue of multi-level governance. New government for you, just with a new electoral law for local government. Unfortunately, there are no transcendental logics that bring the reform and would ensure that the local authorities have significant powers with transparency and accountability. Of course, I'm not saying, you have a strong alibi. In the name of 'CLOSHEN I', the grievance of the big party that this kind of burned the simple analogue. Some self-government - many unfortunately - are the ones who say 'happily there was no 'CLITHEN II'. And that was not the excuse of mere analogy. Sadly, however, you used this political christmasman and brought your historic mistake here. Unfortunately you have not been able to get out of the situation and while you say that you are holding consultations, drafts, plans, supposedly final plans, which you are tabling in the House, you have finally been looking at so many months and "supporting the term, it has become common". Unfortunately, the announcements of the two successive leaders of the same government at the Ministry of the Interior - two leaderships changed, both of you said about the reforms - went for a walk: a miserable and intimate response to the existing issues of 'Classhen', presenting it even as a fertile solution to the problems of local government. I wish, Minister, that the problems of both self-government and the central administration and the Greek state were solved, with central law, the electoral law of the national elections or with the electoral law of local government. Unfortunately, the reform laws on real decentralisation and the transfer of resources and responsibilities from the central state to self-government should be preceded. That's what my colleague told you. You brought this up from your programme, we got it and we broadcast it to the world to know what you were talking about and what you're talking about after two years. You've been running the country for two years. You're not in the political void, nor did we get you out of the glass. An election law for the Ottawas should be followed by a cut in the necessary advancement of the economic self-reliance of the Ottawas. What did you say about that? You don't whisper a word. So we are talking about tax reform and reconstruction in fact of the local government's system of collecting funds, whistling, saying nothing, you have nothing to say or you do not want to say anything, which is even more dangerous. An election law on the TAs should follow on from the Government's initiative to also strengthen the legacy of the hereditaries, all those steps that need to be taken to move from the regime of heterogeneity to real self-government. What have you done all these twenty-three months to this day? Unfortunately you didn't do anything at all. You've caught the violin -- and you're solo, completely solo on it -- you're sticking to the violin of rulership. Over-concentration, anti-programming tools, a very short-sighted conservative perfectly logical. The pink deliberate chaos that came with the simple analogue "mix and match" unfortunately failed as you said, nor the colors you have achieved, nor the way you succeeded in being replaced today by a blue inspiration script that you want to do with the blue ones. In other words, family affair, self-government! It won't do you any good. Self-government will expel you because the nature of self-government is not such. You will once understand it, but when you have part of our DNA. It is therefore understandable, Minister, that we have a structural disagreement, an absolute disagreement - not only now, but also over time - with the election of the mayor from the first Sunday at any rate of less than 50% plus 1%, and that we also disagree with the reduction of elected representatives in the municipal, Community and regional councils. And leave the insult to the elected! What was that thing? What kind of man was this phenomenal idea and who wrote that, that is, that you guarantee, it says, EUR 2.1 million - a great success! - by limiting people to municipal and regional councils, instead of taking advantage of all this potential, because if you're not vice mayor or vice-president for us who know about self-government you're nothing, you're going there and you're leaving. And what else did you say that you were equally insulting, beyond the EUR 2.1 million that is funny as an argument? You said that we should at last limit these chaotic sessions of the tireless municipal and regional councils! But can you tell these things seriously, reliable government serious people in 2021? They're getting tired? Who are they bored of? Do municipal and regional councillors get tired? If they get tired, they go home. Only those who want to offer participate in the commons participate in the commons. Or are you tired of listening to them? If you're tired of it, then you should go home. Well, surely the commons, as we know and know, and everyone, require tolerance, patience, and in any case surpassing yourself too many times. So that's not what you're doing. Get these arguments back. And you're writing, too. I see that many members of your government write about this issue. Don't you understand he's exposing this to you? And politically she exposes you, in addition to entering from the back door and the celebrities. That's another thing you're doing now. What are you doing? You are raising 150% of the vote, that is, the possibility of a mayor putting candidates above, increasing the paradoxes and giving them the opportunity not to be voted on by the constituencies in particular as set out in the provisions. I'll tell the dentist. Why are you doing this? To choose people who have no connection with the local community. Secondly, to elect and prefer the powerful people of the local community, the one with financial potential, who has a factory, for example, and has a hundred employees to make the local lists, why does it not say 'yes, Mr boss'? So that's how you think about self-government. Does this have anything to do with the self-government that we envision? And finally, I would like to say two words about the infamous issue that overshadowed very serious issues of the election of local councillors, etc. And that's what you did: experiments "the cow's head". So what did you do? In the first version, what you delivered to the CEDEFOP, to your own people, to the blues of the CEDEFOP, to Mr Papastergiou, who said in a conference that you handed over the single list, you hung the presidents under the ballot and said that they would be set, they would not be voted on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Do I have your tolerance for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u27	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u28	So the second scenario was the 'plant', you put the 'plant' president. The under three hundred people are talking now. The third versain was enjoyable. You said there would be many candidates, pluralism you told the world they would be, but the first independent combination of them will be elected, while the more than three hundred - there to see what you have created, the bad mess! - so that you don't put your hand on fire, because you badly thought here, don't tell me that it was innocent, with all the lawmakers you've got and the interior ministry team, you didn't set up a provision. Unprecedented! In a bill by the Ministry of Interior you had no provision for the way in which you were elected and referred to "KALIKRATI". And you told me, Mr Vice-President, ironically: look, Mrs Liikaniki, at '79 KALIKARAT'. First of all, I have no problem looking at 'CALL' 79. As a legal person, on the one hand, I often look at provisions, as you understand, fate, but on the other hand, because Kalikaratis is a birth - nourishment of ours and I put my hand in. So you know how happy I am when I read "CALL"? And you read him. We gave him to you together in the country. So I read it, but you, my Minister, make a fatal mistake. This article has been amended five whole times. The term 'combination' therefore has absolutely nothing to do with the way in which the combination is today. Today are the forces as distributed. I will also explain it to you in my dentistry for which I have taken time specifically on this matter. You're not bringing me legal. You told us in committee that you would bring legal technology in order to correct it and to make it clear how they are elected, in what way and what you mean when you say 'combination'. But that is what you did with the presidents of local communities. Why did you do all this? You did all this to blur the scenery. First to fish in bluish waters, see what the societies say. After seeing vibrations and seeing very great reactions you took them back, and now you are between deterioration and incorporation. You don't know exactly what to choose and what to bring. However, top-level lawyers dealing with administrative justice - to tell you this helpfully, Mr Minister, and with very respect - say that if you do not bring legal, well-finding! You're really going to have a serious problem, and I'm telling you that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u29	Shut up, Mrs. Litikoli.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u30	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you very much. In this context, therefore, you are not inclined, you are making no progress. But what will haunt you is in any case that you can fool all people for some time, you can still fool some people. But you can't always fool people. Here we are, and we'll see you again. The progressive part I know that we will once again lift this burden to our shoulders, to re-establish the new areas and the new progressive changes and to put the new tracks on which the country will walk again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u31	From the Communist Party of Greece, the special speaker, Emmanuel Syntakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. The Government of New Democracy, on the pretext of lack of governmentality in the municipalities and regions, restores a provocative electoral system, making the first power almighty, with 43% in which it can be elected mayor and regional, while for the labour union it is forbidden to declare a strike, since 50% plus 1% of the registered ones are required to convene the general assembly. In reality, however, you did not miss cybercracy, nor did the municipalities disperse, nor did the municipalities and regions divorced with the complexity, transaction, with the great interests that are clawed up - the meat that you represent, the capitalist development. On the contrary, they operate on the tracks of the sovereign, bourgeois, on the rails of the European Union, there is - there is no constituted government. After all, the electoral system in local government is very diverse in various countries of the European Union. We sometimes meet the simple analogue in municipal regional councils, as well as the mayor's election, the enhanced analogue and the second round. Has it prevented the functioning and objectives of the local administration? Furthermore, the draft law introduces arrangements that enhance restrictions and exclusion of combinations, strengthening the first two - the well-known duplex - and at local level, such as the 3% limit on the right to elect a municipal or regional councillor, the election of three fifths of the council members to the winner of the election and a large reduction in the number of municipal and regional councils, as well as municipal community councils, which will be defined on the basis of specific population scales. Of course, the fight between you is running all the way up to the election system. Sometimes you take it to other games, for who can control the ASP, for the vote of the offenders, so to be at work, that it can be disorientated and dressed very nicely, all of this cohort wrapping between the two. The Communist Party of Greece, obviously voted against and voted against the draft law, opposes the reintroduction of the limit for representation of political forces in the blackmailing second round, which, apart from the objective of integration, strengthens the individuality in the functioning of these institutions, thus reproducing the sepsis and factorism phenomena, reducing the number of municipal and regional councils - as we said - and aligning the lists in the communities and the central ballots of the municipalities. It is obvious that it seeks to set limits and measures to exclude political forces, to expel, if possible, even more annoying radical voices and forces against the designs of the dominant class and its political representatives in order to maintain and facilitate this urban dilemma from the bottom. But our criticism in the draft law does not stop there, as the other parties do. We are entering into the essence of the nature of local administration and the pursuits in the context of its contribution to capitalist development, which is why you are all present, which is why you are not talking about, which is why you are not doing so further. You are not talking about the enlarged consensus between your parties, your comments, either openly or covertly, with this invention of the allegedly independent and self-government. And sometimes shy, sometimes with enthusiasm, you help decisively - with initiatives, no one would say with inspiration - in this anti-grass war. We see this and now, how you surround and defend this new account of the National Recovery Plan. I mean, we're actually talking about a memorandum. It is the European Union's and the Greek Industrial Association's project, which aims to shield its profitability, to find profitable outlets for accumulated funds, by making use of the resources of the European Union's Recovery Fund, sending the heavy account to the people, which will pay the new privileges to the cash business groups, with new taxes, with new carvings, as well as the new barbaric anti-court arrangements and as a whole, undermining its needs from the capital's plans. Part of this dirty work will be called upon to deal with both municipalities and regions. In this strategy, of course, both the New Democracy and the SYRIZA and the Change Movement and the other urban parties, the programme of which one must look with a magnifying lens to find differences. After all, aren't you all the ones who voted a month ago on the mechanism for the own resources of the Recovery Fund, with which the new burdens will be borne in the next few years on the people's backs, with green taxes and various other carpets? Now, in the draft law on the adjustment of working time, with the attempted removal of eight hours, the introduction of ten-hour daily work, unpaid work and a whole lot of other antique provisions, SYRIZA can go out on the tiles, but it supported the PASOK law in 2011 to set working time and not just this, but it widened it already. It supported and implemented all the anti-legislative legislative arsenal of the previous governments. He went further than 12 hours of work in hospital doctors, with nine hours of work in the OSE, and the first was SYRIZA who introduced thirty-two Sundays a year's work for commerce. And of course, New Democracy is now coming to completely abolish the Sunday holiday for dozens of branches. The profits of business groups you both defend, the urban parties in general. For what? Because they require the profits of business groups and unpaid work. Of course, at the same time, SYRIZA is central to promoting the culture of consensus, as he says. After all, it was also the preposterous analogy that it introduced with "CLITHEN", unless it didn't. It proposes in its arguments that local administration should be relied upon by the parties, seeking the most effective service to the needs of capital with the cloak of class neutrality for good administration, democraticity and proportionality. That's what he says. It seeks to incorporate into this reactionary account popular labour forces, inactivate them in order not to oppose its repressive and anti-popular functions, which literally devastate his life. That is why both SYRIZA and the Change Movement did not talk about the fact that the New Democracy Government maintains this sound and anachronistic institutional framework, which forbids political parties from direct candidacies in the organs of all levels of local administration, even though the original draft in consultation had been removed. You hide and play this small-party game around the so-called self-government label. So you put your hand on the reinstatement, on the withdrawal that he had made in the consultation plan, you put your hand in it. For you, what matters is to fish for the blurred waters and the more blurred it is the more well for the scene you set up and suits everyone, how rather when in front of you you have to share the garments of the old social democracy in the space that, as you know, its executives have lived, ageed and careered with the label of the so-called self-government. That is why you are fighting for the necessary consensus on the implementation of these plans, with SYRIZA and Change Movement to accuse the Government of lack of consultation and payment of letters in certain business interests, to hide that all these anti-grassroots overturns are a prerequisite for capitalist development throughout the European Union and with all sorts of governments, but above all, to cultivate the callatic expectation that there may be another plan, which at the same time meets the interests of capital and those of the workers, provided that they themselves become Caliphs, in other words, the only project for the benefit of the people's interests, that is to say that it will question the objectives of the bourgeoisie and your own civilians. But both in local government and both parties, both the New Democracy and the SYRIZA and the Change Movement, are serving the same goal as the institutional framework for local administration, which you have co-formulated, voted, implemented over time, starting from "KOLIKRATI", "KOLIKRATI I" and, of course, there is continuity. What is the essence of this 'permanent reform', as you like to say to give this philosophical cloak? The full alignment of the operation and funding of the municipalities and regions, with the objectives of capitalist development, with the needs and priorities of business groups and not citizens. On the contrary, it will be out and away from these logical needs and struggles that perpetuate and remain uncovered regarding the flooding armour, the earthquake shield, the country's anti-nuclear protection. But this pursuit has nothing to do with the real needs. So this is a reactionary reform. So these arrangements of this bill are a link to a long chain of reactionary legislation in local government. It is the same reactionary framework that we have seen and lived in previous years with the help of all of you: Local and regional authorities have emerged in a lever of the anti-grass attack, which has not prevented either SYRIZA's "simply proportional" or the majority system that existed before the New Democracy and PASOK, and which will obviously be the same from now on. On the other hand, with the role and responsibilities which have been taken into account by companies, the pocket and income of workers, poor farmers, professionals have been overturned in labour relations and, indeed, local administration has been used to overthrow labour relations, basic social needs have been built up, land use has been overthrown and at the expense of people's needs. The vast majority of local authorities, primary and secondary, as well as their collective bodies, the CEDE, the EIA, who operate with executives of your own parties, managed in full agreement with the same policy, implemented the policy of taxing flexible labour relations, commercialisation, supported - you supported - the account of the country's bankruptcy to work for the bankruptcy of workers and the people. So today, with these bills and these policies, the anti-grassroots role of local administration is growing even further. The JRC was justified when it said that the vast majority of local problems are the result of the central political line, that it is impossible to have local prosperity, philosophical local islands - that is what you told us - alleviating local and regional disparities while the barbaric, anti-popular central policy exists. And it is not a question of defending self-government from the attacks of the central state and governments in terms of air and paper decisions. This cannot be done, not just with the papers, but with the cannons. Why? Because capitalist development brings together so much power in the hands of the central authority, which neither the municipalities nor the regions, regions and cities can resist. The question is which class has the political power, both in the centre and in the region. This crucial issue neither New Democracy nor SYRIZA bring it to the center of the debate, leave it out of discussion, because both are bourgeois parties and their confrontation serves mainly their party targets. Everything else is about the figure, to blur the waters of your policy in the consciousness of the people and to accept such a role of municipalities and regions, taking advantage of their particular role, which is closer to the citizen. The JRC, without any illusion about the role of local government and at the very beginning of the equalisation of voting, as long as it can always be possible in the conditions of capitalist exploitation, is firmly defended and without "yes" the system of simple, unadulterated analogy and the selection of local bodies, defends the satisfaction of modern popular rights needs for work, public and free social structures for pre-school age, people with disabilities, the third age, for education, health, welfare, without reward fees and taxes and caring. With this line, the JRC stands across both this bill and against all the reactionary changes with whatever sign they may appear. It also seeks to organize the struggle, claim, opposition to government and local authorities supporting reactionary overthrows. For all the above reasons, we as a JRC are voting against the draft law in principle. To conclude with the ministerial amendments, both in particular on the issue of the Digital Certificate for COVID -19 and the deprivation of civil rights, our parliamentary representative will be placed in detail. He's already made a position, but he's got a heavy significance and there's going to be continuity in our positioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u33	It is called the speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Antonios Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, first and foremost a good month. Today, after four meetings, after listening to the opinion of all the institutions, we came to discuss here in plenary the new law on self-government elections, the law which replaces SYRIZA's Law 4555/2018, the mere analogy, which we must say and we all agree that it has not been tested. Let's see if anything can go ahead should be tested. That's what logic says, Minister. I must say in passing - and you know it very well - that the Greek Solution right from the outset, and in its programme it has it, is in favour of mere proportional, in favour of direct democracy, especially in the municipalities and regions, ladies and gentlemen. Because we hear a lot from the New Democracy. We are now used to baptizing the fish meat. I will explain a few things to understand that what each government is trying to pass is what suits it. And it suits the New Democracy to pass the enhanced ratio with 43% plus 1%, with some things, which are first put and sewn in its measures and especially in the communities. It is not possible for a community of less than three hundred inhabitants not to be represented by people living in the village, they are citizens, they are in the community inside and the mayor must put his good in there and the whole system, that is to say, work for the mayor to become master. That is what we are listening to, and we have to talk about it, ladies and gentlemen, because what is happening today is not without them. That is to say, today it begins, my dear Admiral - and we must know that, we must say so - the implementation of the new Banking Code, the one for which, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister said that it was a benefit to the natural person. We're talking about the new Acquisition Code, which will make the owner of a home tenant. It's just so simple. Be careful, what is happening, Minister, and it also applies to other issues - that is simple - is what the government is trying to pass on to its workers, Mr Hatzidakis, who is the man for all jobs, is willing. What does Mr. Hatzidakis' work say? You can't have a schedule for your family. One day you can work three hours or four hours, because that's how the employer wants you to work and the next day you can work thirteen hours because that's what the employer wants. Is this the New Democracy? Is this the New Democracy of Humanity, Minister? I never remember being that central person of the New Democracy. Where's the collective agreement? He's talking about individual contracts of employment. And if the other one doesn't agree, he won't fire him. No, he just doesn't hire him. I've noted some things, but you have to have time. We'll talk about it when you bring this bill, because people don't understand. What is happening today is it believed that the bill for the self-government elections of reinforced analogy is the problem, Minister? Oh, no. The municipalities are governed. With your amendment, they are well-governed. There is the Economic Commission. The economic committee, the economic power, passes everything. There are self-government officials here. Mr Hatzidakis, who was one of the successful mayors and knows that - I have said it many times - if he were a mayor, he would not say that if he were not a party. What have we done here? We went on tours with the President at Sparta. I will tell you a simple example, as I said about Mr. Bakoyannis and I never chew my words and you know it very well, who came from Karpenisi to become mayor of Athenians and bring the great walk. If there was the simple analogue, he couldn't pass this puppy, now everyone's saying when this big walk is going to be quiet, and the university will go away and these huge palm trees, which if they ever fall... If that's possible! So the same goes for Sparta. He's an excellent mayor, Mr. Duke. But what does he have to do with Sparta? Is he the one who lives in Sparta? No, he left Athens and went to Sparta. Why did he go to Sparta? Because that's where the party took him. Does anyone disagree on this thing? If we disagree, let's say it now. The New Democracy is not the party that Constantine Karamanlis started in 1974. Oh, no. It was transformed into a party of hard neoliberalism. Since today, I have been telling you, the bankruptcy code is being applied. If people know and understand what will happen within a while from now on, half the people will have to be on the streets.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u35	The Duke there wanted to go and we just supported him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u36	Well, well, Mr. Hatzidakis. You know what I'm saying. This partyisation of the municipalities is the problem. The elected representatives must be of local communities and municipal councillors must be of local communities. The way you do this bill stops this. That stops. Who take part in the public? Only those who are around the parties. So he wants SYRIZA to take out the mayor of his choice. He puts his power up, the mayor, the candidate, puts the party's chosen ones. Is that the citizens' problem? Do you think the municipalities are not being governed at the moment? They're ruling. Of course they're ruling. Do we have any problem with any municipalities? Doesn't he have the city council? He's going through what he wants from the Economic Commission. Others are the problem of the municipalities. It's not the bill of how a mayor will be elected. It is indebtedness, insecurity, that is the whole of the laws and regulations of the municipalities that cannot be served by the citizen. I repeat that the citizen cannot be served. That is the problem and, of course, the money that the municipalities must have. Some municipalities are housed, in other municipalities mayors do it like - as. But mayors are not elected by local society. They are elected on the basis of party criteria. Yeah. I'll tell you one more thing: Today we had Alimos, in your area, Mr. former mayor, in the Old Faliro, next to Alimos, throwing in the morning in a building, because he stayed there - says - in the building a police officer from the Zeus group. But, the other day, on Sunday, we had a cold murder in a café. On Monday morning the other guy goes with the kalashnikov morning - morning on main streets and throws ten bullets. You saw the bullets were stuck in adjacent shops. If she was a kid and she would come by, if she were a citizen, and she would go through there, what would we say now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u37	Is it the mayor's fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u38	No, it's not the mayor's fault. Did I say it was the mayor's fault? It is these laws, which you do not bring to support what the Greek Solution says: deterrence. When you arrest the man who kills, murders and commits an unintentional crime, he will enter life and will not come out of prison again. Yes or no? You're not voting for him. Why sixteen years, for eighteen years, of which ten are and five are licensed? When the other guy knows he won't see the sunlight again, he'll finish the fairy tale. Okay, we'll wait to vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u39	Ask them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u40	Yes, Mr. Admiral, Mr. Hatzidakis, that's it. I will wait for you to vote on it and talk about it here and not what the party wants. So, what's the party? The Greek Solution, as we have told you many times, is not here to make a sterile opposition. He's bringing suggestions. The good bills support them, and we have proved that because we have passed enough. However, bills, which stop the logic of the average Greek citizen, will not be voted on by the Greek Solution. We turn all over Greece every week. The president's on-going tours. He doesn't expect the elections to come out of his crab and go meet people. We've returned to the Peloponnese, now we're going Autolo-Carnania next week. We are listening to the problems of the citizens. It is the municipalities who must listen to and implement citizens' problems. Come see what's going on with security in Eastern Attica, in my district. Go to the Medidium. Go to the Spatas. Go to the Marathon. Where are the police forces? Where is he? Others are generally targeted, others are in distractions. Patrols don't come back. This is an issue that the government needs to see, that is to say, the security of citizens, of citizens. In democracy, ladies and gentlemen, you have said so too - there are no dead ends. Don't tell me that with just proportionalness a municipality can't be ruled. We haven't tried it. In other countries there is a simple analogue and it has been tested and, indeed, gone well. The mayor can't be a master, do whatever he wants. We have stressed that we do not close our eyes to a bill that may help the country and the Greeks. According to the Government, there were incidents in local government, in which the law of SYRIZA, as the government says, did not offer the mayor and the district manager respectively to have the necessary majority on the municipal and regional councils, so that they could not be governed. You have made the amendment - and I have told you from the outset - and now all municipalities and regions are being governed, unless there is something we do not know. We haven't heard any mayor say "I can't rule my place, I mind the city council or I don't have anything to go through". Whatever he wants to get through it right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u41	No, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u42	Yes, yes, we absolutely believe...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u43	Administrative operations can't pass.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u44	All right, all right. No, you want the mayor to pass what the mayor only wants, not to have the Opposition, even some citizens who disagree, for no reason, all to pass by the mayor, to sign. He's the boss. No, he won't be the boss. Citizens have a say. We all have to understand that and the parties must see it beforehand. The Greek Solution has never supported or will ever support local government, mayors, district rulers. It's a start, the district commander and the mayor will come out, they'll be elected from the world. Local communities will propose, local communities will vote, local communities will bathe the good and evil of mayors or regionals. Stop composting the municipalities and regions! It's wrong! This has been the case since 1974. We haven't had an enhanced ratio since 1974? What are the hails of the municipalities, which most people owed and forced the state at every moment and a little bit to write off large sums, of course paying the price to the citizens? No one else pays for it, no credit, and no people pay for it. This bill that comes makes regional and municipal councils - you say - more flexible - that's what you say! - as the mayor and the regional or regional director will control the three-fifths of the board. But no one can question him with this bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, what the Greek Solution does not welcome and support is the partyisation, which is done with the mayor's obligation to elect his own people, even in small local communities. These are unacceptable things, because so the mayor becomes subtle and man-made of every government. You're looking at me, you know what I'm saying, because some of the municipalities have been passed by the mayor's or district's positions. Let me ask you something else before I close: Where is the decentralised administration? So does the problem affect us, or is the big, ladies and gentlemen, and Minister, just the bill for the election of local government, or how will local government function? Who are those responsible and why? Did you see what happened in the fires recently in Corinth, where more than seventy thousand acres of forest burned the Geranes? Who's to blame? It says the Firefighting: "I entered the woods and it was a wall". Where are the streets? Where are those that should have been in the woods by the masters? Who's responsible? The anti-nuclear belts, who's gonna do them? He is responsible - he says - for the master. Who controls the masters? Decentralized administration. Where's the decentralized administration? Nothing works, gentlemen! And I'm telling New Democracy, because you came with another thought, that SYRIZA should leave this left ideology that said 'Let's go, bring the immigrants, the illegal immigrants, the illegals here', and now what are you doing? You're setting them up here permanently, Minister! You give 600m euros to build Islamic permanent villages in Greece, you discuss with Merkel and Berlin to come and everyone from northern and central Europe who left in 2015, 2016, told us by SYRIZA and Mrs Tasia "we don't know where they are" and will now bring them back again. The Bulgarians want them inside, the Skopje want them inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Mylonakis, close!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u46	I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. And Greece will become the warehouse for all these illegal foreigners who wanted to come to Europe and eventually end up in Greece, as long as we get money, as long as they give us money. I mean, our girlfriend, our wife, our daughter, we don't care what we do, as long as we get paid. That's what you're saying! You have destroyed Greece, and you do the same in scaffolding, you do the same in national matters. In conclusion, this bill certainly does not reflect the citizens' decision. It does not satisfy the world of municipalities and regions. Unreasonable in the communities, as I said, under the hundreds of inhabitants the mayor has the upper hand and not the citizens. The Greek Solution is against the bill in principle. The amendments will refer to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Konstantinos Hetas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u47	We'll hang up with Mrs. Fotini Bakadima. After three minutes, Mr. Tagaras will take the floor to present the amendment from the Ministry of the Environment and then, before entering the list, Mr. Voutsis and Mr. Velopoulos have asked for the floor and the list will be started. Here, Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Interior on the election of Municipal and Regional Authorities introduces a grid of provisions which, in the name of governmentality, violates the basic principles of the Constitution, but which, by all citizens, silences the real consequences and targets of the New Democracy. The representative democracy criterion of its genuine democratic nature is the degree of participation of citizens and their free and unadulterated expression in all the procedures for the representation of their representatives in the institutions of the State, local government at all levels and in all forms. However, we see in the legislation under discussion that the constitutional requirements which are being violated have not been taken either by Union and international texts, such as the European Charter of Autonomousness of Local Government. Let us see briefly some of the articles in the bill that are problematic for us. I'm starting with Article 3. In Article 3, we see the reduction in the number of members of municipal councils for municipalities with a population of two thousand to 100 000, without any financial benefit, as is apparent from the accompanying draft law. Fewer municipal councillors are given that it is difficult to serve management and committees. In smaller municipalities there is even more serious problem. At the same time, we see a small increase of municipal councillors for municipalities from 100 000 inhabitants and above. Moving on, Article 4 and Principles of Municipal Communities: There is a decrease in advisors to communities of less than 10 thousand inhabitants and at the same time communities are converted into municipal. The principle of proximity enshrined in the European Charter of Local Autonomousity is effectively annulled and, of course, the demands of a thousand five hundred communities that have set up community networks are ignored and are now being placed, by holding a referendum on this matter. Article 5, voting time, duration of a municipal period: Re-establish the five-year term, which combined with the artificial self-responsibility provided by Article 26 to the majority of the majority of the population, substantially transfers the accountability time of the mayor and the municipal authority at the end of the term of office. So if there is a local authority that has failed or disastrous management - and we all know such examples - it denies the law for the citizens to redefinite their choice and must continue to suffer all the consequences for another year until the five-year term is closed. In the case of the implementation of the simple proportional and corresponding election of mayor and regional councils from the municipal and regional councils, which are also a proposal from Mera25, the mayor or the regional director would continuously account for the Council and the citizens. It would be the central expressions of possible convergence and consensus. The groups that would support them would also be politically committed to implementing the programming agreements so that they could have a job to present at the end of their term of office, but we would also have better functioning of local government. Such examples can be drawn from the European countries which already apply it. The argument we hear that the projects take a long time to develop and implement is correct, but on the one hand, to whatever extent, the administration must plan in the long term, with broad consensus and, on the other hand, be consistent, regardless of who is at any time a municipal authority and, on the other, four years are an adequate time to show and prove or not the adequacy of any municipal authority. Let's go to Article 13, which has the seat for the municipal councils of each constituency. Reduction of seats is foreseen here. In conjunction with Article 13, we are generally seeing an increase in the measure. Immediately? Restriction on representation of smaller groups or even exclusion of them. Article 15, preparation of combinations and submission of applications. The proposed increase in costs for the paradoxes of candidates for participation in the self-government elections on the one hand, and the provision for the closure of the ballots at the end of August, on the other hand, put a clear barrier to participation in our fellow citizens who do not belong to the wealthy layers of society or to smaller groups who are trying to form their own list until the last minute. Article 24, which brings the mayor's limit of self-responsibility to 43% plus one vote, from 50% plus one vote. Article that is coming, in essence, to overrule the citizens' vote. The mayor's resignation, however much as it takes in the first round, if it manages to raise 43% plus one, will at the end have 60% of the municipal council members, as defined in the first paragraph of Article 26 of this, of the municipal councils and its legal representatives. The artificial self-reliance provided no matter how far from self-restraint the majority of the members of the majority vote are, in flagrant violation of equality of vote, because the municipal council that will eventually be created will not represent the composition of the electorate. The extent to which equality of vote is violated depends directly on the size of the majority of the privileged majority. The prerogatives once again run counter to equal rights. Immediately after this arrangement, it will also be the exclusion of representation of smaller groups or, at best, their limitation. Articles 26 and the 3% cap. A great deal of discussion has taken place within the committee, as well as in the public debate. We believe that the application of any limit precludes and distorts the representation of parts of our society and cancels basic constitutional principles, groups of citizens and reasonings to be expressed on the municipal council of each municipality. Article 29, election of municipal councillors. In municipal communities with a population greater than or equal to three hundred inhabitants, the combination of the successful mayor takes 3/5 of the members' seats in each municipal community and the connectors' links to the other 2/5. And here again another violation of equality of vote. For once, two metres and two weights are created. We wonder why the president in a community with over three hundred inhabitants is elected by the mayor's successful combination, whether he has a majority in the community or not, while in a community that is less than three hundred inhabitants, the majority as defined in Article 30? [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] It is clearly undemocratic not to be elected by the majority in the community. The proposed regulation is the mayor who chooses and not the citizen who represents him in the communities, and that violates the popular will. Article 30, election of the presidents of municipal communities. Here in municipal communities with a population of up to three hundred local community president is elected the candidate for the combination, in which most valid lists were counted in the first round in municipality. There is something strange here, for once in the draft law under discussion. The president of the communities of over three hundred inhabitants is elected by the combination of the mayor. Not under three hundred. Article 42, regional authorities. The number of members of the regional councils is considerably reduced, which, as in the municipal councils, means the difficulty of staffing administrative and committee seats. At the same time in regions where, because of their geographical extent and the lack of funding, contact between regional schemes with society is already difficult, we see even more difficult. In line with the above-mentioned difficulties, dystomia and malfunctions resulting from the articles on municipal councils also arise for the regional councils, as provided for in Articles 43, 51, 52, 57 and 59. Moving on to Article 88 and the provision of a suspension of the region's professional activity, a suspension that seems to be moving in the right direction, but is likely to have individual problems. We should see how we can predict and provide for this not to happen. Theoretically, the changes that are being attempted are aimed at achieving the rule of law, a term that is widely used. Nevertheless, we should not forget that it is related to central government and not to self-government. It is a term that contains an entirely centralized time and substance. There is no evidence that the simple and unadulterated analogue, the only electoral system that fully expresses the popular will, is related to a lack of governance. In Austria, Spain, the Netherlands, Sweden, Finland, there has been no such problem, nor in countries where the mayor is elected by the municipal council, such as France, Spain and Portugal. Unfortunately, despite the words on the contrary, the bill is not a step forward in modernising, but it is a direct attack on self-government, democracy and pluralism. He follows on from previous politicians and finds a step on half the work that SYRIZA did with his own scissors simple analogue. I will repeat for once, and I will not get tired of saying it - neither will I, nor the other Members and members of Mera25 - that the simple and unadulterated proportion is the only electoral system that manages to accurately reflect the popular will with the seats of representation, and that the mayor and district mayor should be elected by the respective councils. It is also important that there should be no provision for involving citizens, such as the 3% plaque, the 43% majority plus one vote, the increase in offenders. The blockade of forces not only reduces pluralism and distorts the result, but cuts out a key pillar of society's information, as the forces, especially the smaller forces, who participate in councils with less than 3% have been mentioned, are the voice of groups that would otherwise have no access to the claims of self-government and their region. Nevertheless, Minister, the leadership of the Ministry of Interior leaves its deep aversion to everything that does not promote and does not support the "blue" children, the "blue" executives, but the need to create, build a local government in image and in harmony with the distorted staff, only in your own eyes of the Executive State, to deprive them of their involvement with local issues and, in general, with the commons. Of course, that's not what you're worried about. The main aim of the New Democracy is to establish, maintain and nourish a blue local government, with executives who will use every anticipation of the plan, the current and any future, any aid that will be given to them whether it is financial or otherwise, to be dulled into the local authority. We have seen this with examples of your officers, your mayors, who have avoided discussing the draft law during the meetings of the municipal councils. However, another objective of the Ministry of Interior is to prevent any progressive voice from being heard or represented. However, be sure, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, that these voices will be heard and represented and actually represented, regardless of the measures you take, regardless of your own legislation. These voices will make screams and succeed in covering any of your own efforts. As Merra25 said from the outset, it is only possible to vote against the draft law under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u49	We too thank Mrs Bakadima and the consistency of time. I, too, wish to wish all colleagues a good month, a good summer, always with health and power. As has already been announced, it will now take the floor for a while to place it on the amendment number 908 and a special number 89, the Secretary-General for the Environment and Energy, Mr Tagaras. Mr. Tagaras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the result of the regulations contained in the amendment, and in terms of investment and projects in Greek, is about the size of the intervention area, the specific characteristics of the property regime and the partial development of the projects. These were the main reasons why we are coming with arrangements to legitimise and secure all the steps that will be taken. In particular, as regards Article 1 on the location of St Kosmas Marina, where the Presidential Decree referred to in Article 2 of Law 4062/2012 amends the Presidential Decree from 22-2-2002 "Application of a special integrated development plan for the Olympic Sailing Centre in Agios Kosmas" and lays down land and sea zone conditions for construction and land use for that area, the decree is to be added - this is proposed - by the Minister of Tourism for reasons of legal certainty as well as all the responsibilities relating to tourist ports belong to the Ministry of Tourism. In Article 2, which refers to the traffic connection, I said that the projects are developing in part and are being manufactured. It is necessary because after completion of separate parts of the whole project, the final connection of the installations to the river road network is approved. For example, when it comes to the completion of approved networks or connections within the pole, they will be carried out through networks that exist or are constructed and approved by the relevant body. It is a transitional process as far as the constructions are progressing until the completion of the project, which will then all be as designed and operated according to the plan that is known from the outset. Article 3 refers to excellence before the formation of public spaces. They know that in order to issue a building permit within a city plan, one of the necessary conditions is the excellence and building capacity of the plot, the building capacity that has to do with the existence of a person in public space. The condition that there is a person in a public area is fulfilled at the time when the sites are declared public by ministerial decisions referred to in Article 3 of Law 4062/2012, when they are owned by the Greek State. This is because it has nothing to do with town planning regulations, but with the partial development of the project, as far as personnel are concerned on a shared path. With regard to Article 4, it refers to the transfer of the Hellenic Office from the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance to the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Urban Environment of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, certainly more familiar space for all actions, building permits and other experience, but also because of the closeness of the Ministry, which is much closer to the permits and approvals for such a large project, so that we can proceed in times that are pressing for the completion of the project. Of course, the responsibilities of the Hellenic Office concern mainly the adoption of all administrative acts, in accordance with Law 4495/2017. As regards Article 5, they are amendments to a distribution contract. It is necessary, with regard to the progress of the studies necessary for the implementation of the projects, again due to a partial development in the construction of the projects, that the finalisation of the projects such as the road industry will make substantial and significant changes to the approved plan. That is the reason for service and regulation with Article 5. In Article 6, because of the large extent of the metropolitan park and the partial development of the construction of projects, this classification is therefore being proposed, on the basis of which amendments which do not substantially alter the nature of the park are approved by a more rapid procedure. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In any event, such amendments when they are material shall be adopted by a decision of the Minister for the Environment and after the opinion of the Central Council for Urban Planning and Controversy. As far as Article 7 is concerned, there has been a list from the Ministry of Development, where it has categorised the buildings and, in principle, which are demolished and which are not. With regard to demolitioners - and I am not talking about preservers, these still do not change - because there are changes, such as the water tower of the old US base which is considered to be to be maintained, so some changes are needed with regard to moving from one category to another for demolished buildings. This is, of course, in accordance with the decision of the Minister for Development and Investment in accordance with Law 4663/2020. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u51	And we thank the Minister. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like, starting today's speech, to ask everyone in here how serious our political system is - and it is not rhetoric - how serious the Greek political system is. Not at all. Every government that comes here, tracing and seeing and tracing the world's intentions, changes electoral laws. If at some point we do not consolidate our electoral system in order to deal with any mistakes that everyone makes here separately, and if we do not really realize that we cannot cut off and sew the electoral systems according to the percentages we have at the time and the circumstance of events, then I am afraid that the Greek people will not just be away from politics, not just from politics, but we will be missed, Mr Pecha. You're a two-year-old government. You have made two laws for the vote of the Group of the European People's Party, and now you're going to change the law that you've changed in the past with 42% for the Economic Committee. Why did you do it? Not to rule the municipalities - don't be fooled! - but why do you want your "blue" mayors to get the percentage you want and then go on the next day of the election, and say "the country's blue map". The rhetoric which we have asked and I address to the Members of the New Democracy is as follows: From '74 to now most of the elections have been held by a large majority. The mayors came out with 42%. Do you not know that the'man' of corruption, according to the well-known events that have followed, were the municipalities? Didn't you know that? So even with the electoral system, as you say, there will be no solution to the problem. Do you know what you're doing? Based on the result, you choose a solution that does not cure the cause of the problem. And I will tell you what is the cause of the problem. It's your deep partyism, your splitting choice in the local society. You are parties that divide the Greeks. Why does there have to be a candidate for the New Democracy? And what do they say? Regardless, he says, he's backed up. I mean, we're mocking the world! What do you want to sit down and talk about, and what about the bill? There isn't that thing, it really doesn't exist! Because if the government were to take serious care of it, it would say 'I am doing an electoral system in which all parties agreed and withstand for twenty years' time. I don't care about the result if I lose or win. I am interested in the positive result for local society." Here you go to "deal" by communities of three hundred inhabitants the possibility of electing any citizen of this community its president and allowing the mayor of the region to choose his or her "principal". I didn't know we had a real democracy! We have said that we are in favour of mere analogy, but always looking at Thrace for obvious reasons, not only. This is representative at least for local society, for local government. What you do is divide the world. You have one cafeteria to beat the other cafeteria, to collide families. Why do you have party candidates? We have said the same thing about the universities. "Get out" the party organisations from inside and so there will be no incidents. Why? There is, of course, another 'lisveris', such as graduates, degrees, ratings, etc. Minister, I am sorry, but this is not what is called the Final State or the Reform Government. It's called a deeply sterile party state for power. That's the truth! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] On the other hand, since you are interested in local government, tell the mayors, but also make legislation, they should delete the municipal fees that people have to pay for a whole year, while their shops are closed. Why would the shopkeeper pay municipal fees when the government decided to shut the shop down? Horizontal deletion of the municipal fees of shops. There's no other way! The tax information must also be dismantled. A man who has a shop you booked him and can't pay the city fees, can't get tax information. How's that going to happen? How is this shop going to work in the same municipality? Why do you tell me? All you care about is whether it is your mayor and not the citizen who is ours, a Greek citizen who needs to be served and served by us? I also want to say to you - and I am addressing all parties, because I believe that the depreciation of the political system starts from here - that the quality of political confrontation between the parties finds me sincerely crushed, I feel bad. Some oppose their trolls in social media for the jacket of the former Prime Minister, the carrot jacket he wore the day before yesterday and the others, the New Democracy, for the dog in Maximos. If this is a serious conflict between parties - and I am referring to SYRIZA and the New Democracy - I think it is wrong. That is our view! Why are you opposed to'small's'? I'll tell you now. Because you agree on the 'big ones'! In Skopje you agree, in the Memorandums, you agreed to all the "large", which are dangerous to us, you agree and find "blue floor" against the "small" and phenomenal. I'll tell you something. As long as you continue like this, you may have 30 percent, 20%, the 35% you have, but for us in the Greek Solution the beacon of democracy is the 55% that you did not vote on. We are talking to them, to them we are talking about, to them we are talking about, and they are the ones we want to convince! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] But how can we convince them, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when a Hatzithedosios - who is the President of the Chamber of Commerce and was PASOK - called on KINAL, SYRIZA and New Democracy, along with Adoni Georgiadis, to agree all together, as if there were no KKE, there is no Mera25, there is no Greek Solution! Is it the "Arbena" for the congress that comes? I wonder! Because a lot of water in their wine has recently been thrown from the New Democracy. And, unfortunately, I see water in the wine and SYRIZA! This tactic shows that there is an underground agreement between some parties for the future. Be careful, because whoever plans and makes plans at night or day, God sees them, that is, the Greek people, laughs! And he's laughing better than anyone who's laughing last! Because Mr. Hatzidosios cannot be invaded by the House itself! It can't be called only KINAL, SYRIZA and New Democracy eating and drinking, taking pictures and bringing them up to social media. They're taking advantage of you already! And I say it with sympathy to KINAL and SYRIZA. You're being exploited by the New Democracy! They consider you to be "speakers" people. If you are not "equal" people, do not crash with them and do not go on your own to speak with them. Minister, Mr. Pecha, I personally like you. Unfortunately, however, the New Democracy has made our country Sinaloa! Do you know Sinaloa? And today we had shots at Alimo! You made Sinaloa, Tijuana, Mexico, cartel. Every day and a murder! Every day and a clearing of accounts, Sinaloa is confirmed every day! "Law and order" the Prime Minister told us beforehand, when SYRIZA had failed to some extent in crime. If the grade was large or small, it's something we're talking about right now. Besides, it's opposition. What have you done as a New Democracy to make the citizen feel safe? He shoots at noon the other man with kalashnikov on his head, take the boxer to Vari and murder him with bullets in his head. I can't understand what kind of law and order these are? I'll tell you what. You've made the policeman chasing the maskers. Not the criminals "maskers" and "gullards" who enter with kalashnikov! Oh, no! The Greek who doesn't wear a mask. Whoever's not wearing a mask, the cop runs behind the block. Is that the police? The police who's chasing the civilian or the police who's chasing the criminal? The Greek Solution wants the second one, chasing the criminal, not the Greek citizen's law, who just didn't wear his mask. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Sinaloa, Greece! Day after day they're shot in the streets! Shame on you! Shame on everyone, and more shame on the government that, with this "significant" vote, defied the Greeks, with the "significant" of the law and order. And when we say "law and order", we won't go to the other, in the authoritarian "you want, you don't want, do that", but in what the law says, to apply the law to everyone. Mr Peaches, I would like to stay a little in Greek, because unfortunately this government, like the previous ones, send out the wrong messages, Minister. On 19 May we had the anniversary of the Pontius Genocide. The Prime Minister of the country didn't even come here. No political leader, but I live with the Prime Minister who exercises command and governance. Also, on 29 May we had the anniversary of the Salvation. No political leader, not Mrs Sakellaropoulou, wrote a message about the Alps, a message that at least we are not forgetting. For we believe in legends and traditions, we believe in what the Greek people said and insists on believing - especially the refugee, like me, because I am a Asia Minor - in "Again with years, in times of time, will be ours again"! It's legend and tradition! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So the Prime Minister forgot to write a message! And May 30th, the Greek government meets Tsavosoglou. We are talking, my Minister, to tell you this so that you can understand it in a comparable size. If we had 1453, that leadership, but also the present, its current patronage, would say to the Franks "permanent Ottoman installation on payment". That's what you'd do! You did the same now! While for the "grass" we have "blemothers", we have "bollies", we have been grabbing housing, propaganda and splitting. That's not reasonable! And I will tell you where you have made great mistakes, what the challenges that have not been answered and what the challenges of Cavusoglou have not been mentioned by the Greek Government, because this government is not a government of the New Democracy, it is a government of the Greek state, a government of the Greeks. We may disagree, but it represents the Greek people. Challenge Cavusoglou's first: The question is "Why is there a minority school in the Minority High School - Komotini Gellal Bayar High School?" The Treaty of Lausanne, Mr President, does not speak of schools. It speaks of teaching alone in the Koran, neither of the Turkish language nor of Turkish courses or schools. We have violated the Treaty of Lausanne for decades. They only put Turkish journalists in it. Only the Turks! Why? They left the Greeks out! I heard a noble man journalist from SKAI protesting from the outside! Already by SKAI, their channel, the New Democracy! The man was screaming - and he was right - and he said, "Why don't we go inside?" Challenge two: Cavousoglou went to the grave of Ahmet Shadik, the well-known agent in the past, but Greek politicians, when going to Constantinople, did not dare go to the cemeteries of the Greeks who have been arrested several times in the city or even to visit Pontou! They don't dare! So these are challenges that have not been answered. Third challenge: Cavusoglu says something to the Pomacus and see how he threatens them, my Minister. If you are satisfied with the threat within Greece of Mr. Tsavosoglou to the Pomac Greek citizens, these Greeks, then I am sorry. So it says, "It is our fault to support them. Let them make them see what "Greece" and "minorities" means. Cavusoglu says this to Thrace. He goes on to say, "Stop funding the Pomacians of Xanthi. I will speak with Ahmet..." - means Mete - "Out of the carpets, enough of the illiterates." Cavusoglu came in and said "rabbits", i.e. he devoured and devoured the Pomac. Answering the challenge, no one. It's a good thing the Pomans resisted! Good thing the Pomaks raised their voice, because the Greek government was speechless, it had a voice. To go to an ORL to see it better! "Instead of poaching, therefore, we recommend visiting..." - says the Pomac - "the bloodshed villages of the Kurds, the graves of thousands of murdered civilians, and the democrat journalists and politicians rotting in your prisons." That was the announcement of the Pomacians. The Greek Government must do something, not the Pomacians! The Greek Government will do that! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Challenge fourth! Inadmissible behaviour of Greek MPs. I don't want to get involved in your internals. I don't even care about PASOK or SYRIZA. However, attending Greek MEPs at the private dinner of Tsavosoglou on Greek soil, when our Greek MPs did not enter, it is your concern how you will deal with it by SYRIZA and KINAL. If they were the MPs of the Greek Solution, they would have been deleted in the minute! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We let you choose the right Greek street! The challenge fifth: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs warned that if Greece had been provoked, it would have responded loudly. After all this, silence the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs! 6th Challenge: Our Thrace, made up of Greek Muslims, whether Pomacus, Roma, Ethiopians, or even some people who think they are Turks, is Greek, Greek! And these people are Greek! That is what all of us have to say in here, even the Muslim Members who avoid saying it! They're not Greek citizens just. They are Greeks, as are the Pomacians. What is it, Mr President, that Mr Tsavosoglu is doing in Thrace? It's a raw violation of the Lausanne Treaty. The Treaty of Lausanne refers to a religious minority. He's not an imam, he's not a hobby, he's Cavusoglu! What's he doing in Thrace? Seventh challenge: private visit before official visit. Where have you seen this? Has a Greek Minister gone to Pontto private? Has Greek been in private - as I would like to go to Prussa - before seeing Cavusoglu in Ankara? Oh, no. So we have constant challenges. For us, the message is clear. First, for the Greek Solution, the last mile you can discuss is the twelfth mile, twelve nautical miles in the Aegean! It's over and over! I don't know what it is for you. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I hear one from New Democracy saying six, the other saying eight, the other saying twelve. It's 12! Why don't we talk to the European Union and NATO about what Cavusoglu did? Let's send a protest and say he did this, that and that. Why didn't we? In contrast, of course, with Sahel and Belarus, which the Prime Minister ran to demand strict penalties. So, fascist Erdogan and authoritarian - fascist Turkey, should not be punished by the European Union for the suffering they have caused to journalists and political opponents? Because only when we're going to talk about other issues, we're popular as rulers, but when we're going to talk about our own issues, we're quiet? I'll tell you something. Imagine, Mr President, the British Minister would go to Brittany, France and say that there is a British minority! Those who were fighting a week ago about the fish in the Channel! Imagine saying it like Cavusoglu did in Thrace! Apart from laughter he would cause, he would be called "unwanted person". If there was really a Greek government, Tsavosoglou should, even before coming to Thrace, be an unwanted person in Thrace and come to Athens if he wants to discuss with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'll tell you what the government didn't say, because time is pressing too. From two hundred and fifty thousand Greeks in our city, in the Kingdom, there were only a thousand left. Mr. Dendias didn't say so. Secondly, he didn't talk at all about the balanced Pontius, because now that we're talking about there are Pontius balancing in Pontus talking about the Pontius dialect. He didn't say about Imbro and Tenedo. Fourthly, he did not say about Cyprus and Famagusta. Fifth, he didn't say about Lausanne's violation of Tsavusoglu. Six, finally, if the Turks want a consulate in Komotini, one is the solution and it is diplomatic, it is not warfare: demand tomorrow morning to open a consulate in the Bank as a compensation, to see what the Turks will do. And then you remove him from the opportunity to have a consulate in Komotini. It's over and over! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I am not saying that we should make wars because I remember the ministers of the New Democracy in an election to say "To leave the consulate, to take it out on my own". He wants diplomatic manoeuvres. I remember that the government at the beginning of 2020 announced - and we were waiting - the campaign to prevent everything from happening. Do you know that? It is the language of Afghans, Pakistanis, etc. They said they'd make their own commercials, etc., so they could go away and deport them, kick them out. And money! Nothing! Even now, nothing! Instead, they fill the country with illegal immigrants. And because you invoke Europe from New Democracy, I do not understand where this 'Eurocracy' is based. So, where is there any logic in constantly invoking the European Union? In Denmark that helped the United States watch Merkel? Do you want this Europe, the underhand of American or German interests? Where are human rights? Where are European values? When the European Union calls Putin's regimes - its choice - or China, at the same time as the Nazis, but also for Lithuania, who have imprisoned all their political opponents, the European Union is mug! At the same time, for fascist Turks in Cyprus, the European Union! They don't say anything! There are no principles in the European Union. There are no moral values and barriers. There are only interests. Understood. There are only interests of multinationals, large companies and dealers. Don't you understand? We're alone. Neither Russia nor America nor Germany will help us unless we are alone, ready, ready to shout what the Greek Solution says. For us, in the Greek Solution, Greece never dies, the country is never sold, the Church never dies, history is not forgotten! It's just stuff! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And here I will tell you what the difference between the Greek leaders and the other leaders is. Mr. Voutsi, we are also relatives of Pontto just as much as I know. We have a root in Pontto. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, who are the leaders and who are the leaders or managers. What did Vladimir Putin say the other day? He said "Whoever dreams of biting a piece of Russian property will break his teeth one - one". That means a serious policy. As for the Greek leadership decades now as part of the guiding process they forgot about the northern continent, we forgot about Macedonia, we forgot about Cyprus and Ammochostos, which Erdogan went to. We're forgetting the Aegean. It was Cavusoglu here and we had fifty one violations over the Aegean! And they say the Greek parties "Whoever claims to be part of Greek land, we will not beat him. We're going to The Hague. We'll go to the courts." How serious can someone take you when you say that? How seriously would a foreign power take into account when you say that? How seriously can Egypt, Israel, that we want very good relations with these countries, when it sees you spit on by Tsavosoglu and you invite him here and discuss the partition of the country, the question of national sovereignty through his presence in Thrace and through his statements. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, Turkey knows who it is. It speaks of a 'blue country' Turkey and means the Aegean, the Mediterranean. What does the Greek Government say? Blue freedom, we with the vaccine. See the difference to see the result. Blue freedom vaccine one, blue country the other, Aegean, Mediterranean, etc. Look at the militaristic, chauvinistic concept of one and the endotic, soothing concept of the other. He understands the most ignorant who will lose. You don't need a lot of brains. I want to talk a little bit about the economy. Mr Petsa, my Minister, unfortunately in the years of the memoranda you have committed a great crime to all parties: we are all talking about GDP. GDP contracted. That's for granted. The GDP has collapsed. But we are not talking about the incomes of the Greeks. The problem is not just GDP. The problem is also the purchasing power of the Greeks, that their own GDP, the budget of each family, has been greatly reduced, the wealth of the Greeks. So if we figure it out, you'll both see that we're derailed anyway. Now listen. I believe that the continuation of this policy will result in appalling and disastrous for the next generations. And I'm not saying it. SYRIZA transferred in 2060 the debts, you even lend now to the consumption. These are new debts that are transferred later. So the next generations will be subjected to a vortex of disastrous destruction that is not handled easily. Let's go for confiscations against Greek citizens. Acquisition code. Their homes, the first home ends, while you prepare and give 500m euros to make settlements and housekeepers for permanent establishment in every Hassan and Ibrahim. Is that fair? I'm not saying throw them in the trash, but I say first we look at the Greek, the Greek, Greece and then we see if we can help the rest of us. I've told you a thousand times, don't put them in Samos, Chios, Lesvos, take them to uninhabited islands to prevent social explosions. EUR 500 million for air conditioners. Are we all right? The Greek doesn't have to eat, he's homeless. For infrastructure. Where did you get that money? Don't tell me from the European Union because it's all in the state budget, it's the Greek people's money, it's the Greeks' money. So what did you do to the Greeks? I'll tell you, my admiral. Stalin - and I think he did so, Mr President - has shown how foolish the people are. That's what Stalin said. He took a chicken and sold it to his hands. She was hammering and reacting. She was beaten to go because she hurt, my child, she was normally pulling the dicks out. After a while, he leaves the chicken and slowly throws some wheat and the chicken began to follow him. And Stalin says, did you see? That's how foolish people are ruled. Did you see how the chicken followed me despite the pain I caused them? Most peoples are like this. They keep following their governments, despite the pain they are causing them, because their purpose is to get a little gift.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u53	So...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u54	I don't know if you're Stalin. But I know that... Listen, sir, when you say a parable or when you say something about the myth, it doesn't mean that natural persons are identified, because then I could say that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u55	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u56	I don't think you're tyrants, though. So if the Greek people are chickens, you are the tyrant Stalin, sir. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I reverse the question. I'm telling you again and I'm going back to you. Are you Stalin? Oh, no. So I say you give gifts. For example, listen to what you are doing now. You are opening a competition to hire people who will be kept in the structures of immigrants. You did the same thing to Samos. You hire people for the structure so they don't talk anymore because they're hungry. In Cintic, Serres, you give land to cultivate some, Ibrahim, Hassan, structures, land to cultivate, for a permanent installation. I'll submit it to the Minutes. In practice, therefore, friends and friends, what New Democracy does today is to follow SYRIZA’s recipe. You are worse because they said so before the elections: that is what we will do, we will continue, we believe. You said: You are the traitors, you are the lame ones, you are the strange ones, you are the bad ones. We'll solve the problem. Now listen. EUROSTAT: If current migration flows to Greece continue in 2100 in 29.5%, about 30% of the population, they will be 100% foreign. I'll submit it to the Minutes. I am saying all this to understand what damage you have done to the economy, because this issue is also economic, because if the 1 billion that we give for the feeding of fifty thousand - Mr Mitarakis answered me - people who are feeding Greece in relation to illegal immigrants, migrants, refugees - tell them as you want - we would give it to new couples, give them Greeks and stay here, they would not be able to become immigrants abroad. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] That's what we're telling you. We're telling you proposals. After all, Greece is the only country without any production of cars. We were telling Mr. Hatzidakis before he left and went to the Ministry of Labour to give the Greeks the day off so they wouldn't be paid: Don't sell PPC, don't sell LARCO. LARCO has nickel and cobalt for batteries, huge deposits. Since we don't produce cars, we told him, let's make a battery factory that is the future of the next forty years. Mr. Hatzidakis is well known for his cold performances either Olympic, PPC, or LARCO - at Work, I do not know if he will be able to perform the Greeks with his "refresh", we will see that as well - he has not listened to us. And I say this: can't our country make a battery industry with so many scientists? Maybe. In Germany, which I know, which now manufacture the batteries, two Greek birds are the heads of the production line. I know them personally. Two Greek birds. Can't we bring this here, so we can make the production line, have jobs? That's what we told them in the New Democracy, but Hatzidakis, you know, we said, his! And Mr. Dendias comes out without asking you, the New Democracy -- he asked you? - and he said Greece doesn't want to do mining in the Aegean and Crete. Anyone asked you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, Members of Parliament, honourable Members, did you ask Mr. Dendias who said that Greece would not make mining when the plan for PASOK, SYRIZA and the rest is to make mining in the Aegean and Cyprus? Anyone ask you? Aren't your ministers asking you what they're deciding? The man told Saudi Arabia. Forget the mining. And the next day Turkey comes out and says: Since Greece won't make mining, we will do in Kastelorizo. You give them a squeeze. The Athanasios Diakos, Papaflessas, Mr. Dendias, the great Constantine Paleologist! So you forbade him when he said what he said and made diplomatic errors there in relation to Turkey. I'm afraid so. And I'm hanging up here. New Democracy's mistakes in the economy. Greek companies are taken over by Turkish companies. You know that? Do you know this company "Kalimanis"? It's a colossal corporation. Because your banks didn't have the permission to give, they've been deprived of the loans. However, they took the recapitalisations and recapitalisations, the billions were taken by the bankers, but did not give "Kalimani" loans. So here comes DARDANEL, the Turkish company - I told you six months ago - and purchases KALIMANIS. Enjoy your voters! You leave Greek companies in Turkish hands. Do you understand? And it's not the MPs' fault, it's your ministers. That's the problem. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Secondly, now listen, the Turkish company is taking it, Mr President, with 90% of debts cut. Couldn't you cut 90% of the debts in the Greek company? And you did it after the Turks took it. We're not a little embarrassed. But I repeat: Members are the last wheel in the carriage. Some ministers there and advisers of the Prime Minister who advise him wrong are the ones who commit the crime. But listen to them here because we don't have anyone to live with. And here's what we're going to do now, Mr. President, we'll let the Turks in Greece have a Greek company, the Turks will fish the Greek fish in the Aegean, because we didn't make fishing zones and buy the Greek fish from a Turkish company. That's where we got to, selling our own fish. And Pagalos said: the Aegean belongs to its fish. Now neither the fish belong to the Aegean Sea nor the Aegean Sea belongs to Greece. Wrong second, you are making colonial contracts with "ELDORADO". I was the opposite anyway. Why don't you guys make them take Greek companies? To do anything in the area, there in Halkidiki - I repeat that I am against the investment - take Canadian companies. Why? Put a clause inside: I give you the license for environmental impact - that you made it a Miami land there - but you'll get Greek companies. For construction work. That's not what you did either.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u57	Let us finish, Mr President, because the list is too long.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u58	I apologize and I close here, with the mistakes of the New Democracy in the economy. All these years the Greek was empty. Mr. Petsa, you have a Prime Minister who is sensitive to green energy. We've been doing a rough study. If they had placed photovoltaics there, in the area, in the years that passed, with the five thousand acres they would have a capacity of 200 MW and because they are next to Athens, this current could easily channel all the southern suburbs and all the center. You've lost all these years, all of you. I'm telling you where you are and economists, because we wouldn't have a loss of transport, of electricity transformation, of terrain, of course, because there were some insulations, the cement. It's all set. This is the difference of the Greek Solution from you. You seven years do the Greek and you still do it, and since the first year we would have 200 MW ready until this story you want to design is planned. That's how you earn money. Wrong fourth: Government is speeding up wind turbines. BLOOMBERG: Greece is speeding it up. So he wants the country to be filled with wind turbines. They give 18 billion euros, says "BLOOMBERG", the Greeks in the course of the ten-15 years - listen - for wind turbines. They'll give 18 billion. I ask you: why not give 18 billion to the primary sector - livestock farming, rural economy, fisheries - to have a goodwill in three years of 40 billion? That's what the Greek Plan says. It's just things that you don't believe, get on the internet. There's all our program, three hundred sixty pages. With Mr. Villardo and the economic team, we prepared it to read it. Wrong fifth: Fineting for everyone, for all debts. Finally, there is no other solution. You don't make tax fines and coronary debts haircuts. Do it. If you don't move forward immediately, we'll have zombie companies. In America now that we're talking 15% -20% of companies are zombies, mortal. In Greece it's 50%. The economy will collapse and many Greeks will be forced to unemployment. I would like to close here, because I have been misused by the President of the European Parliament for years. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I would be the last to question the honesty of all of you, all of you and the Prime Minister. I would be the last to question your acidity, your responsibility. Do you know what I'm questioning, though? The courage and courage of some to see in the face of the truth, that they are served by fewers, that you are making haircuts in canalarchs, that you are serving friends and acquaintances, you are appointing fifty thousand recruits to make an army of party voters. There you have a subject and it's a matter of moral order and I'm not talking about scaffolding and all that. I will tell you, Mr Pecha, that Seferis wrote: 'Whoever lifts large stones'. And I am referring to the major problems that the New Democracy has undertaken. I'd say it's also parabolic, because in fact, you'd carry on the back of large stones, scooter, economy, memorial, investment, development. Unfortunately, you sink without even carrying the stones, because you are heavy themselves in Greece, the economy and the Greeks! You'd better go to elections, get out of here, if the Greek Solution comes, which takes four years to rule Greece as well to help the Greeks resurrect! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u59	Before the President, Mr Voutsis, on behalf of the Greek Government, will answer Mr Petsas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u61	You want to come to Stepma?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u62	No, I'm fine from here, Mr. President. Two or three points I want to highlight. I am sure the President did not get confused by the Ministry of the Interior, neither with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, nor with the Ministry of Finance, nor with other ministries to which he referred in his speech on the bill we are discussing today. Three - four points, however, need to be said, because they give rise to the wrong impression. First of all, he talked about the suspension or remission of municipal fees to businesses that are closed with a state mandate. But already since the March 2020 legislative act and continuous extensions whenever we have needed to suspend it, by decision of the municipal councils. Too many municipalities have responded. Some people didn't respond. What does that mean? That we should go and say horizontally that there won't be any primary endings? There's a distinction in municipal fees. There's what's with the cigarette and, of course, they're not paid. There are the hiking charges and there we can see if a horizontal solution is needed, even now. What should be clear to those who hear us is that it's nothing free. If you deprive these charges by means of a horizontal provision in the municipalities, the government will have to make a difference, because the public are waiting for services. If that's the proposal, the Greek taxpayer should know. We are talking about a solution like this, even now, because we have given the municipalities twice EUR 187.1 million last year, EUR 50 million this year, and we will also provide new emergency funding in consultation with the financial staff, precisely to make it easier for them to make even greater use of the possibility of suspending charges for the benefit of households and businesses that are within the limits of their municipality. But it's nothing for free. Let's not give that impression. We are generally talking about deletions, but when the taxpayer has to put his hand in the pocket, we should say 'no'. Secondly, the President spoke of security issues. But the official evidence is falsifying him. We are not in Mexico or in the cities that Mr Velopoulos seems to know well. Of the official statistics from the Ministry of Citizen Protection for 2018 and 2020 on the so-called'micro-crime', the thefts – burglaries in 2018 were forty-three thousand seven hundred forty-three, 2019 was forty-seven thousand eight hundred thirty-two, 2020 was forty-three thousand-eight. That's a big cut! Thefts of wheels: In 2018 were fourteen thousand seven hundred fifty three, in 2019 thirteen thousand sixty-seven, in 2020 nine thousand and thirty-eight. That's a huge reduction! In the robbery we had three thousand four hundred sixty in 2018, three thousand three hundred eighty two in 2019, one thousand eight hundred in 2020. So, at the level of micro-criminality and all that people have to deal with every day is a clear improvement. As far as organised crime is concerned, I would refer you to the press releases of the Civil Protection and to the file submitted by the Minister of Justice on organised crime in Greece, and this is about the actions under way. I don't want to go into any of the evidence the police are investigating. Migratory: I visited Lesvos on Friday. There's no picture of the migratory crisis on the island, as it had last year. The twenty - four thousand last year are six thousand today the people who live in the CYPD on the island and become continuous decongested. Why? Because we checked the border, we guarded the border. We guard Thermopylae. Every Greek citizen knows, especially those who live on the islands. We have managed to act and the more rapid administration of asylum and returns and, in general, decongestion. You cannot fish in blurred waters simply by invoking general elements which have to do with the obligations of the country, when a grounded person finds shelter on its territory, but not those who are economic immigrants, but those who really need and are protected by international asylum agreements. With regard to what we have heard about 'green economy' and stuff like that, did the Prime Minister himself not talk about deflation? Isn't it Greece which makes a very brave program of liberation, with a clear imprint in the particular geographical areas of the country? Are we not going through the issues of electromobility, recycling, use of photovoltaic systems, to which the President referred? At the Ministry of Interior alone by the program "Antonis Tritsis" is hundreds of millions of euros that are channelled to both photovoltaics and recycling and electricity, while tomorrow the Prime Minister visits Astypalea, the first "green" island, with an investment of a colossal of the car industry. We cannot say this in general and vaguely and blame ourselves without saying anything specific. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President, and thank you for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Heta, not for half a breath. Let me tell you why. He asked your President in thirty-five minutes a number of questions, the Minister answered. If you want anything, keep it for your place. The President, Mr Voutsi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, good month! A few days ago, from this Step, the President of the European Parliament, Mr Sasoli, spoke, as did other prominent European Union. They have found the opportunity, whether by messages on the ground or on the ground, to either honestly or hypocritically put the finger on the type of sunshine for the recent history of the European Union and its relationship with our country and to make some kind of self-criticism about the completely wrong strategy - you will tell me that it is easier to say, but I note it - of the European Union about the debt crisis, about the memoranda, about our country, etc. The Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, instead of finding the opportunity in this debate that opened up to the issues that have caused enormous pain and wounds that have not been healed to the Greek people, made the choice, made the political abundance and stumbled the political affliction, I would say, before foreigners in the honorary events, Europeans, to consume in an attack on a historic review - one would call it - against the government that took the country out of the memorials, to speak dark parentheses, to speak diversely, to speak right, populistly against the SYRIZA government. Of course, on the substance of the matter the former Prime Minister and President of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, Alexis Tsipras, responded from this step, but - and I am linking it to the issues we are discussing - this attack was a cover for a choice to be made to opposition. This is the government's policy for this two years and with the assistance of the media and other journalists actually forms a framework in which the victims become victims and vice versa. We are now coming to see the revelations within two days of this policy which it wants to cover, and it wants to put a cover on it through the attack by Mr Mitsotakis, of this government's policy in a number of areas within 48 hours. What do we see? We see that the law and order were for Exarchia - Exarchia everywhere, so it was the signal - it was and it was for the HIS. The Prime Minister himself has speeded up to correct the front page of the newspaper 'TAS' and say that no, now four hundred and six hundred - I think - will be appointed by the year. The police at this unprecedented international event, the police to enter the EHP with the EHP closed down for an hour and a half already, at the same time we see the ban on strikes not on what Mr Hatzidakis brings. Understand? As long as we go to the discussion of the bill on labour, every day, the real issues come out. Today we read in the yellow pages of the newspapers that the Minister will ban the possibility of a higher trade union organisation, if he has been - which is, unfortunately, a ban on strikes by the courts - a ban on a union or a primary organization, a ban on the proclamation of a strike by a senior trade union organisation. Today the newspapers have it. They finished the lies and the "shows" that were until last week that it was a working bill that modernises the worker's relationship and gives her potential. Here comes the heavy artillery now. Nowadays the auctions are starting, that is to say, the application of bankruptcy law and, of course, the liberalisation of the auctions, and within these revelations of a deep conservative folding, because this is all about government policy, this bill comes, Minister. It is truly unequivocal that it is being done for the purpose of integrating control, for an authoritarian, manipulative local government and not for multi-level governance, etc. which are the titles you have so far been on in your relationships with these levels of self-government and the necessary decentralisation. For our part - you know it in the years of SYRIZA's governance - there had been KLISTENIS, the simple analogue and not just. At the same time - because it is important - that both the 'PHILIDIS' programme and the other initiatives taken, so as to make it possible and enable them to respond to the levels of local selfgovernment, the municipalities in particular, but also the regions through the management of the NRP, be able to provide resources and, slowly and slowly, to implement the project on competences to do their work, not only the institutional framework which has its value. So, what do you do with the bill you have proposed and are in the process of being voted on? You are increasing the number of candidates in the ballots so that it is even more difficult for smaller powers, for local forces of active citizens to form such lists. At the same time you abolish the self-evident choice for election, the autonomous election of the local councils which also enabled these communities to bloom and control issues on the ground and plan and be in a dialogue which sometimes has its intensity with the central municipality and local communities. You also give a five-year bonus like this, which has a lot to do with it. Reduction of municipal council members for under 100 thousand and two cuts and you understand that. One cutter is the official, 3%. The other is the one that emerges from all the previous ones, namely that a 4%, 5%, possibly more, will need a vote from active citizens unselfish, because there is not even, as they were before, compensation for ordinary municipal councillors within municipal councils. I remember that since I was at the Ministry of Interior, which was a request from the municipalities. You are therefore giving the cut-off to the second in order that there is no possibility, no hope of these initiatives blossoming, in contact with politics, in contact with social action, in contact with local problems, in contact with societies themselves, citizens, people, men, women, young people, and young people who want to join the public. You are obliging them all - because this is what I have described as authoritarian manipulation which you are building, to enter if they are accepted - and, of course, not to be voted on at all - in the large lists to create and establish the mayoral arbitrary character in local government. Ladies and gentlemen, alas for our country. I am not referring to the previous ones, and Mr Hatzigiannakis mentioned in his report in detail and with the experience he has and you have experience from local government. But other colleagues have mentioned these issues in detail. In relation to non-harmonisation with European models in a number of countries where things flow differently. What are you doing? Go back, go backwards in relation to all these commitments, cutlers, valves that prevent popular participation, which give a signal "do not concern the commons, this will become a long hand to the state and the government - of the government - I would say the case of local government". It is totally unacceptable, because what is really needed in the country as it comes out or hopes to come out of two successive crises, deep, which have left a strong print, what is needed in the political life of the country is to bloom all these outbreaks, what is needed is democratic compositions culture. You have not at all allowed this system to be tested. In fact, you have speeded up quickly to bring in the specific legislation, where by the Economic Commission, the mayors sent it all over there, several of them. Because some others were working, tried to function synthetically and with wider consents, etc. But most people were sending all the issues there and sending all the issues there in the name of governmentality. It's not about prudence. This is government manipulation over local government. It is not just us, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on this bill. I firmly believe that history will write, and immediately, very quickly, as for all the other issues, about the so-called 'law and order' and that it was oriented elsewhere, absolutely, than happens daily in our country with insecurity, the spectrum of which comes to ordinary citizens, and about the bankruptcy law and all the other issues that are unfolding these days, the story will write that you have attempted, by sluggishness toward the recent history of the country, to become a force of regenerative, as a force of modernisation, while we are a force of profoundly conservative, within the limits of the reactionary neoliberal policies, with which you think it will be easier to pass your extreme, neoliberal economic and social policies. Here we shall be, here will be the citizens, here will be the mayors, the municipal councils, the regional councils and the regional councils, to be held responsible for this return, which you want to vote on today by the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u67	We would also like to thank President Voutsi. We are entering the list of fellow speakers and I call firstly for the New Democracy MEP and for years now my colleague, George Vlavo, to be in the same constituency.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. We broke up, but we're moving on together. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we started today in Parliament was certainly a pre-election commitment, an obligation of the New Democracy Government. But let me say that it is not just that, and I wonder with some colleagues. I heard earlier, Mr. Voutsi, who spoke. Have you spoken to self-government people? Do you have a real picture? Because I really think you're theorizing. Move into the sphere of the idea. You're out of reality. And what we say is that you are trying to interpret it as an intervention for the blue mayors, as if the mayors who are now elected have anchored, as if anyone had told them that they would be re-elected will be saved and well-elected. Everyone is judged. And you know very well, as all of us know, that the mayors and all of us are strictly judged. Anyone who is re-elected is re-elected because something has said or has something to say to the citizens, is not elected because he has any flag.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u69	His things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u70	His things, of course. That's the reality. But, ladies and gentlemen, remember - and I want to go back - in 2018, when the law you brought was being discussed, what did you say then? Because, in fact, we think that we have forgotten about this, that you have been told, you repeat the same argument. Do you come here without thinking of saying what has been said to date? Have you and your legislative initiative, or have we said that this is not going to bring about problems in practice? And today I heard the President say "But, you have found this trick with the Economic Committee". All mayors, regardless of the flag of election, who have invented this procedure of the Economic Commission, can and can govern the municipalities. Otherwise we would be talking about a completely lost four years, a completely lost term. Fortunately that's done, but that's, you know, half the step. And because you said "But, then we wanted to hit transactions", but now the transaction is taking place, now see exactly what is going on to achieve majorities and allow the mayors to stand in the elementary. So, to return to 2018, SYRIZA said through his rapporteur then that the government has repeatedly stressed that any reform in local government cannot proceed without a substantial restructuring of the administrative system, but there should be a substantial transfer of powers, responsibilities, resources from the centre to the region and the local institutions, while the size of this change - listen - should be such an area that overthrows the traditional formation of the modern Greek state. Did any of this happen? Do you remember anything happened? Was something voted on and we interrupted it? I don't mean the government's changed, apparently the government's changed. But what have we interrupted? We, with the exception of establishing the Economic Commission, today this term of office, this four years, local government works by law yours. This law is effective and, however, see below, says, "Our goal is to shape the institutional and political conditions for a Final State, a multi-level governance and a level of cooperation." And to justify this fragmentary intervention you said ‘Why does the government not introduce a comprehensive reform? Because it simply took into account the existing Treaties, the constitutional commitments, the budgetary and so forth, and in other words, it said that, in order to move forward with deeper changes, it is necessary to prioritise the change in the constitution. The only thing that did not have to take precedence over the change in the constitution was simply proportional and then you talked about a question of democracy, which you said was a consistent view of the Left, in local government. What institutional factor, which mayor has ever raised a question of democracy or a matter of competence and have you invoked it? When and where in time? How did you realize it was a matter of democracy? In any case, at the end of the day, what do you propose? Here, today, the government brings these regulations. That is to say, in 2018 you almost institutionalised direct democracy, almost took us to popular assemblies in the squares to decide how the mayor will manage the city's public affairs! That's all we got off with. Otherwise, inefficiency and involvement of all procedures were given. So this democratic deficit then you wanted to explain and say, "But how can a person taking in the first round 20% or 30%, in the second to control 60% of the municipal council?" But no one gave him 60 percent, the one who got 20% or 30% in the first round went to the second round and took 60%, took 55%. That's why he's got the majority on the city council. You compared the percentage of the first round to the second round of seats. Where does that make sense? The logic of the "control" of the municipal council was that of the second round. Aren't elections held in the second round? Don't citizens participate? I don't understand. How do you underestimate it like that? And you say now, because more has been heard, 'But you are excluding progressive citizens.' No one's blocking them. They can make compositions, they can go down to the elections, and they can even achieve 43%, which is easier than 51%, and take and govern the municipality. Unless you mean that you want 2% - because from 3% or more - it is the threshold - that is to say, it can with less than 3% block the procedures of a large majority in almost 50% and, in any case, it wants to be a regulatory factor. Well, that's not exactly democracy. I wish they could find them, but it cannot be a precondition, this process cannot be blackmailed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Nor can the rapporteur, my dear colleague, speaks of the poor man yesterday - so he described him - who cannot come down and can't catch the 3% threshold. So, what would he do with 3%? A great Alexander would be? Would he be a capodist? What would happen? 3%, i.e. is your agony to rule the municipality or the absolute majority or 50% or a strong majority? We today with this 43% that we are again saying that where a large majority is formed - and that is 43% - the election is over, and where 43% is not achieved, because the individual local compositions have not been achieved, because 43% most of the time wants composition at local level, then that is where we will really go to a second round. So the elected person will have over 50%. I close by saying, Minister, that you stop this conversation with the municipal flats and with the abolition of municipal councils. I do not know what phase it is and whether you will bring an amendment and what you will change. Those elected in local communities, local councils, they don't ask for anything, they don't cause any problems. There are problems at local level, in cooperation with the municipal authority, which do not create problems. So the insistence on abolishing them I don't know whose idea it was, I don't know who it insists, but it's good for the government not to insist on it, because it's not meant anywhere, it doesn't have to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u71	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u72	You should tell me - let me say this - that the local council should be abolished at the headquarters of the municipality, which coincides with the headquarters of the city hall, let me understand that it has a sense. But you want to abolish a local council that is five or ten or fifteen kilometres away from the municipality's headquarters, and I would like you to tell me what happened to you. What did these people ask you? They do not have many responsibilities, but they have responsibilities in the world's attitude to the daily life of the citizen. The citizen will address them. The citizen will go to Kuwaras, because he will not go to Kalivia to seek his right or his service or go to Anavyssos, which is ten to fifteen kilometers. That's true. I'm talking about Attica because I know Attica. In the periphery, if anything different applies, set it for the region. In Attica, however, where municipalities, OTAs and former OTAs are large, do not touch them. You cannot tell me that you will abolish the local Keratea that has a population more than the city's headquarters. These are incomprehensible things, not to say they're making a little harm of the legislator. Because he wants to. Who are they blocking? What did they do to? What's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u74	That's what I want you to explain, and I want you to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u75	Finish it, Mr. Vlavo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u76	I am done, Mr President, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u77	Before Mr Zachariadis gets the floor, a minute will be said by the Minister to give a clarification, I think, on this subject that has been heard. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u78	That's right, just for the last point Mr. Vlacho said. The legislative improvements that we have said we will also include the issue of communities, because three key points include: the debate on the issue of communities, the debate on the number of municipal and regional consultants and the debate on the paradoxes. In other words, I am confusing the legislative improvements which we will shortly be tabling, and the issues which Mr Vlacho has pointed out in a good way, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u79	I think the Attica PD did not express such an opinion. Don't go with what CIA says. The CCTB may know what's going on in Greece, but in Attica it doesn't know. Attica doesn't know, and I mean it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance, Mr Zachariadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Petsa, I also told you, and the colonists told you, the whole of the opposition told you that disagreement about local communities is not only the widest advance of shades, but they are there by the New Democracy and the people of the communities. Listen to them. I'll see you five months. The first speaker from the majority, Mr. Vlachos, dedicated one third of his speech to conquer his political opponents and two thirds to ask for change. So take the floor, share the changes to know and we know what you have done, what you hear from these people and what room we have until tomorrow night and the issue of communities and the issue of municipal councils to take it back where the communities tell you where the CED is telling you. In a few weeks it's been completed two years since you won the election. One of the main peaks New Democracy won the elections is that it would bring security to the country, because SYRIZA had done it a mess. Yes, sir. What is the situation today? Agents perpetuate at the airports of the country, mobsters and gangs acting uncontrollable, we see executions, accounts clearing and hard crime. The number two of the Golden Dawn has remained unbreakable for months. It is right that the amendment which comes and is based on what we told Mr Theodorikos on that day and had come out of 10 of the Members of the Co-Population and we were being destroyed. I really wonder: Does the country have a Citizen's Protection Minister? Are there any secret services? On July 8, the first day after your election victory, the Prime Minister took the responsibility of the NDP. Two years later, more than ever, hard crime throws a party and Mr. Petchas comes here and tells us the evidence of the crime. But don't you know, Mr. Pecha, that all over the world crime in the months of Lockdown has retreated? The whole world is the reality. When workers are home, when the focus is closed, when the whole world is home and crime falls. The question is what happens now and now every day we see one with two incidents. The citizens, then, feel fear and insecurity because of your incompetence. How do you respond to these? With university police. Others are crime, and elsewhere the police. The mob's on the streets and the police at the universities. The police department in the neighborhood is subordinated, fifteen people guarded by Furthiotis, dozens of guardians in business and journalists and, otherwise, you're dealing with the crime. It's the first June of today. Have a nice summer. We're applying bankruptcy law. It's unprecedented. You go bankrupt, too. You'll break families, you go bankrupt people. Unfortunately, the new poor middle class will be painful to understand how much you love her, how much you care about her. You will vent it and give it together with its assets and labors of life to the powerful and very powerful. That's the reality. We are entering a huge crisis and you are implementing a law that speeds up bankruptcy. Whether we have a recession of 8% or have a different course in the country, you have the same programme for the country. Legislate and think like you're in glass. Now we're going to the bill and it's the fourth time I've been asking, as I ask every committee: Mr. Petsa, in which other country is this electoral system applicable? Where? Tell me a country. All over Europe with developed and mature institutional local government either by conservative or progressive majority voting operate proportionally electoral systems without a beastly bonus. You also said to the committees, and it was said by colleagues today that cooperation is an outbreak of corruption, transaction, dialogue and negotiation. Really? Let us see what is happening in Europe that are making partnerships. In Europe it has more transparency than in Greece, it has a lower corruption index, it has no moves or, in any case, what you are complaining of is being done in Greece under the table. Isn't this abrupt of institutional structures imposing partnerships and consents? He was telling the committees, but he obviously has some work today the Minister is more important than discussing the issue of the electoral law on Ottas, that he does not like their cooperation and consent and their past. Yes, sir. I entered the internet and read that in 2011 a Mr. Mavroudis Voridis, a member of the People's Orthodox Alert, was appointed to a government of cooperation with the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. I don't know, but it's probably the same ten years ago. Well, let me tell you what you really don't like. You like consents and cooperation for a party, for a place, for a chair, but you do not like institutional areas and institutional changes, which will bring transparency, dignity and beat corruption at its centre, when we are going to talk about institutions such as self-government or central government, because you are working everything because you are putting staff, party and parade interests above all. This system, which you are bringing today, has been implemented in 2006. Did he then have cyberproficiency problems? Of course! Because rulership and with 60% to give and 70% to give, it's not ordered. It is a matter of political composition, whether between adjacent political spaces or within a space that takes 43% and gives it 60%. Do you not remember examples, majorities lost with 60% why, for example, Vice Mayor Zachariadis did not take the work he wanted, blackmailed and differentiated? Don't you remember that? Didn't it happen in Greece? Secondly, the New Democracy is afraid of the second round. Why? Because he knows that if the progressive party joins, it's a majority. This is what the New Democracy is trying to block up by 43%. It's very simple. The progressive party will unite before the first round and win from the first round. No one with a piece of legislation can consolidate in the bi-monthly self-government relationships in the Conservatives of 2019. The most important of all, Mr Pecha, is what will happen with responsibilities. Mr. Lebanese was telling us he'd bring a bill. It's been reconstructed. Do you know what we're talking about today? How the mayors will be elected. Yes, sir. But what do the mayors do, what do the district managers do, what does the Civil Protection do, what does the DEDDIE do at a bad time like Medea? We haven't discussed this and it's been five months since bad weather. And since I'm elected to the North Sector, I'm complaining that next to the Pine Altar, next to the altar of Kifissia, in the Hippocrates state there are still branches left, which, with forty degrees, pose a risk of fire! So, from just looking at how you're going to choose the ones you want and the way you choose them, don't we look a little bit at the responsibilities before we get to the next difficulties? A great request for institution and function, not for party controversy. Take the microphone and announce the changes you think about the size of municipal councils and the operation of local communities. We are not talking about another degree of self-government, as Mr Vorides accused us of in the committees. We are not talking about returning to a model of autonomous operation of communities. We speak and hear the voice of the local councils, who speak of the proximity. In a municipality of island, in a large municipality, with large regional units arising from a merger of previous municipalities, there must be the local voice of the apartment and the community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the Civic Opposition is confused and has reacted obscenely to every initiative of the government. He had invested in social unrest and was disturbed because the country has entered the path of return to normality after the terrible pandemic test. The vaccination programme, the structures of public health, as well as its officials, and finally the consistency and responsibility of the majority of citizens have been the key factors in restoring hope, for returning to normal life. Significant fact in this direction is undoubtedly the possibility of activation from now on of the digital green certificate, which is expected to facilitate travel to and from Greece. However, return to normality is the large number of decisions taken by the Mitsotakis Government in almost two years which has the responsibility of the country, including the bill under discussion by the Ministry of Interior. Because the bitter truth is that the rule of SYRIZA left us as a dowry crowd of drug-drug fields in various areas, mines deliberately placed by the government at the time, with clear micro-group feasibility and ideological obsession, and unfortunately with total indifference about the negative consequences of these decisions. Therefore, SYRIZA's executives are rightly complaining that they were allegedly wronged by the Prime Minister's abhorred for the unpleasant break of 2015, at the event for the forty years since Greece joined the European Union. Because with their own responsibility we almost fell to the cliff of chaos. And what happened is not forgetting them as sufferings - lessons, as lessons about the present and the future. A particularly positive example of a tragicly irresponsible and unresponsible post-collective policy has been the law on elections in self-government. The introduction of a mere proportional, in the name of supposedly excellence, has led to shortening of regional and municipal councils to leave a letter of combinations that had been won in the elections, to freeze necessary projects. Why? Because minority groups disagree. Because it wasn't possible to find the gold incision. Because in practice the wider consensus was not sought by the legislator of the law of SYRIZA. And I say "supposedly" why the law was adopted primarily from the party's stress to gain some influence on local government, where it is just almost far away and in order for it to succeed, "let's go the old bell". However, we all realise what this improperness means to municipalities now taking on large and critical projects, what deferring funding, postponing the delivery of work for local communities, raising the standard of living of local communities, or what it means to make behind-the-scenes agreements so that the mayor who does not have the majority of the municipal council can do his job, implement his vision. Ladies and gentlemen, the elections and the establishment of municipal councils cannot be the field of political experimentation. They are processes linked to the survival and development of regional and local government. Municipal councils blocked, without prudence, involve regions and municipalities at stagnation, local communities in stagnation and decline. It is right that the Mitsotakis Government, in finding the scale of the problem that has arisen over these two years, restores the functionality of self-government with today's bill. It is right to give an absolute majority to the municipal or regional council, to the 43% block on the first Sunday or to the second round, so that it will inevitably implement its programme. And it welcomes the 3% entry threshold on regional and municipal councils, as is the case in the national elections, in order to discourage multi-dimensional patterns in protest movements or in personal shapes. Minister, anyone who has lived in the Greek province understands the importance of communities, especially in remote areas. It is therefore a good thing that our voice has been heard about the failure of the Presidents of the villages. Their rename to representatives of the communities originally foreseen would mean a deterioration of their time-consuming role. It is a good thing that you have accepted that the communities over three hundred have not only a president but also a local council. Also positive is the acceptance of the proposal to elect a president in the community, the majority in the village, without its election being dependent on the prevalence of the municipal combination at municipal level, as was the original prediction. But I believe, Minister, that this measure should apply to all communities and not only to those with a population of up to three hundred. This cutter, I believe, must be abolished. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The one chosen by the community's population for president in a cephalopod, such as the Berlinian Elassan, should also be elected. It is not right for someone who came first not to be elected and elected as a third party, because the municipal combination that hosts him is majority on municipal level. Others cannot decide to represent a village. Minister, I would like to believe that you will see this with due care, accepting the demand from local communities. Mr President, with these considerations, I am voting in favour of the Internal Ministry's draft law that restores functionality, governance and hence the effectiveness of the municipalities and regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u84	We too thank Mr Harakopoulos and the consistency of time. He has the floor now, after the Step, the MP of the Change Movement, Mr. George Kamines, has been taken care of. Here, Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that we are the country that has implemented most of the electoral systems. I do not know if that is true. It seems, however, that we are on our way to conquer the first in the field of local elections. The last four elections in 2006, 2010, 2014, 2019 were held with three different electoral systems, and today we are discussing the fourth for the next election. Let me note that the constant change in the system for the emergence of either the Members or the local authorities suggests a hypothetical development of political life, because instead of dealing with the substance we are being beaten up by how the positions of power will be distributed. I will then concentrate on the municipalities, but the same goes for regions. In 2016, SYRIZA introduced a simple analogue in municipal elections, so that, as he told us then, it would promote co-operation in the municipalities. It is not easy to oppose this, let alone when the system of mere analogous is long implemented in many countries with success. The groups are taking part in the elections separately, but they agree, before or immediately after the election campaign on a joint programme and on the face of the joint mayor. However, all this is happening in one round of election, where the mayor is not directly elected by the electorate, but indirectly by the majority of members of the municipal council. We can agree or disagree with this system, but it cannot say that it has no reasonable effect. However, what was imposed on us in 2016 by SYRIZA was a craving, the municipal council was elected on a simple analogue basis, but the president, directly elected by an absolute majority of the electorate. So we saw mayors elected by vast majority, but, in the absence of a majority on the municipal council to implement their programme. The problem here cannot have an institutional way out that is compatible with the democratic principle, because the principle of declared does not apply here. That is, as in the case of the Parliament, does not mean that the dissolution of the municipal council which does not support the leader of the executive, that is, the mayor. That is what we pointed out at the time. We had said that two instruments were created with the same people's legitimacy, which in the event of conflict, there is no solution, but only immobile. So you did not need to be a magician to predict that the New Democracy, which was then beginning to scorn towards power, would change the system of governance. So we have now come to the point where the municipalities are governed by the virtual majority of municipal council committees. SYRIZA was unable to understand that electoral systems are not enough to change deeply rooted attitudes. In a polarised and crusade political landscape, the simple analogue in itself is simply not working, or rather acting paralytically. Today, of course, we are now being called upon to decide completely opposite or rather vice versa. With the electoral system that you are proposing to us, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, a 43% minority in the electorate also shows a mayor and a strong majority in the municipal council. In short, with the current system of SYRIZA, the mayor of the majority cannot rule, with tomorrow yours becoming the mayor of the minority. Here now the New Democracy and SYRIZA appear like two distinct mirrors, like two mirrors, which reflect each other's idol, but reversed. However, the two idols are identical, because in both cases they are common to the will of the electorate, the sacrifice of the democratic principle on the altar of party sterility and selfishness. After all, it is about counter-reforming anti-reformism. But here, the two refusals are not equivalent to a catastrophe, but as Vassilis Kegeroglu said days ago, with a counter-reform on the square. Unfortunately, however, we are now also called upon to ratify another reversal of reality, as serious as this: instead of bringing in first the arrangements that will clarify the responsibilities of the central state, the two degrees of self-government and the local communities, it is now proposing the electoral draft on the basis of which the local authorities will emerge, without knowing what powers these authorities will be called on to exercise. We're talking about the definition of clandestine, I'd say maybe party self-interest, but I can't imagine why. Ladies and gentlemen, we can try what the election systems are putting human mind into place. But real local government will not see in this place, if we do not allow it to become adult, weaned by the central state, by the hydro-headed construction that takes fifty Ministers to rule. Only then are we going to have a real state. In other words, a state which plans, evaluates, supervises and executes only where the principle of subsidiarity allows it. And two degrees of self-government that will specialize in planning at local level and implement it, with municipalities that will determine the property tax themselves, collect him and account him to their citizens for how he was spent. Only then will we be able to start talking about the State of Finality and the local government as a lever for the development of a country. Ladies and gentlemen, you are again trying to manipulate local government. But your historical developments have gone beyond you. Society has changed, handcuffed by communism. Self-government is a glorious field for young people who are thirsty to engage in politics. In the period 2004-2009 you led the country into bankruptcy and promised the future of these people. Today, the least you can do to these young people and young people is to let them free, helpless to join politics so that they can regain the future in their own hands. And a word on the amendments relating to incompatibility and obstacles to participation in elections. Our rapporteur, Mrs Liikanouli, will speak in detail about this. I am simply limiting myself to expressing a concern about Article 3 which introduces incompatibilities for anyone who has a definitive conviction of the well-known offences referred to in all the articles, which is incompatible with participation in senior bodies of a party, which he also calls. Article 29 of the Constitution speaks of the freedom of Greeks who have the right to vote, to establish and participate freely in political parties. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There's a part-session here now. You will tell me that it is not simple to participate, but that it is part of a guiding body. Perhaps you could look at it again, as we have Article 2 which actually prohibits these parties from coming to the vote. That is something I am thinking about, because that is why Mrs Lykoulis will then speak more in detail. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Kamin. And now I will give the floor for three minutes to the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs to put it for the amendment number 907 and a special 88. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our amendment with the Ministry of Digital Policy and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has two specific provisions. What we do in the first provision is that we give the ‘e-EVA’ the opportunity to extend his cleaning contracts. We are doing this for the following reason: because we are at a time of pandemic, we are at a time when public health is very important to all of us, and we ought as a state to shield it. So for this reason, as well as for the reason that fixed-term private-law contracts have now expired, as is the case with the competition for the cleaning contractor to the "e-ECA" with appeals to the Proceedings Review Authority, we give the possibility to "e-ECA" to extend up to three months the possibility of recruiting people in his cleanliness. Now the second provision relates to the housing allowance for uninsured overtime. I would remind you that what we did with our law in November 2020 was that we reset the housing allowance for uninsured overtime, so that now it is given uniformly by the OPECA to all our fellow citizens. The joint Ministerial Decision was published yesterday with the Ministry of Finance, which lays down and regulates the criteria and conditions for granting this allowance. What we do together with the Ministry of Digital Governance is that we create a digital platform so that all our fellow citizens can receive this digitally, easily and through simplified procedures as well. And until this is done, the provision we make allows our fellow citizens to make their applications and to carry out this allowance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u88	We thank the Minister, too. And now there is the floor for the New Democracy MP, Mrs Anna Happily. Here, Mrs Evriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion institutionalises a new electoral system in the election and promotion of municipal and regional authorities and abolishes the simple proportionality established and implemented by SYRIZA. The views I will put forward in addition to policies are also experiential as a young man who has evolved in the field of politics and through local self-government. I was a youth advisor in the Municipality of Thessaloniki, a position that was first established and through many initiatives with the young people of our city we raised real issues that concern our youth. I was also a municipal councillor for the opposition of the Municipality of Thessaloniki in 2010-2014. I am therefore aware of the important role of local government, which is the closest form of power to the citizen. However, for this reason, the issues that concern either electoral law or other changes in local government should also be dealt with with with particular sensitivity. That is why, when we make changes and in particular in the electoral system, two necessary conditions should be considered, in my own political view,. The first treaty is to have a broad political consensus of political parties, bodies of local government, social partners, bodies of society and citizens, local societies and not linked to micro-party and micro-political purposes. The second component is the time when these changes are introduced to be politically neutral. In this case, to take it vice versa, time is politically neutral, because we are long gone until the next self-government election, but we have also ensured a sufficient experience to judge the previous system of simple proportional election. However, as was shown by the consultation and positions of local and social bodies, as was demonstrated in the drafting of the bill in the relevant committee of Parliament, there is also a broad political consensus. I really think there could be a convergence of some views even with the Civic Opposition if SYRIZA were to deal with this on another side. What I mean is this: SYRIZA continues, as was shown by the rapporteur's suggestion, to propose representation, that is, the broad possibility for all those who want to participate, to be able to do so. And of course, the representation of reasonings. That's right. However, this is where we have come to see the prerequisite for prudence as a mere proportionate condition. However, in a large number of municipalities, unfortunately, cyberdynamicity has never been achieved with this previous SYRIZA system. What, then, were the problems created by the system of mere proportionalness to the TAs? The President of the CEDEFOP, Mr Papastergiou, said so. He noted that in a large number of municipalities there was no possibility of making decisions, even of a formal type. Indeed, he noted that the problems were huge when one thought that even today there are municipalities that have not been able to pass budgets, and much more there are municipalities that cannot carry out balance sheets and accounts without particular reason. Fortunately the Government of the New Democracy which provided and established the transfer of responsibilities to the Economic Commission and the Quality of Life Committee so that the municipalities in these problems can really be run. Of course, Minister, I think it is reasonable that in a new electoral system such as the one that ensures governance, these powers will go back to the municipal council. And I mean, Mr Pecha, the responsibilities that we have transferred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Quality of Life. Secondly, the mere analogy of applying the simple analogous principle: in practice, the possibility of agreements beneath the table for posts in order to achieve the rule of law. I appreciate that most people here in this Chamber know that, and you too, ladies and gentlemen, know that. Thirdly, there is a change in the will of the majority of citizens through this system. And that's why? Because the majority of the majority will necessarily ally with another faction, with other factions and so it will not be able to satisfy and implement the programme for which it has been elected, that is, the programme for which the majority of the citizens voted. So it's something that we really had to fix. And today, it is even more necessary to take decisions, but also to implement the policy of the majority of citizens, because, on the one hand, the Antonis Tritsis programme and, on the other, the 'PHILOPOS II' programme and, on the other, the National Recovery Plan total more than five and a half billion euros for local government. It is indeed a refreshing plan and gives the municipalities and regions the opportunity to make a dynamic contribution to the relaunch of the national economy and to change the appearance of local societies at the same time. They are programmes that finance the construction, upgrading or maintenance of investment projects and infrastructures, which create jobs, which is a matter for the young people of our country. At the same time, I will note that the LAGs - and I know this as a self-government - can play an important role in the implementation of new technologies and innovation. For ten years I have formulated and supported my view that I had strongly and repeatedly placed on the municipal council, that Thessaloniki can become a "smart" city and a node of technology and research with multiplier benefits for the local society and the young people of our city. Of course, it is understandable that the development dimension of OTAs to deliver better should also be combined with the permanent and time-consuming demand of the local representatives for more self-sufficient and more financial self-sufficient. It's a reasonable request. This is because there is the self-employed, but how can this function when there is a duplication of competence? How can this work when we talk about confusing responsibilities in the trimming of trees? How can it work when citizens are sometimes unprotected in extreme weather or natural phenomena? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. And how can we, of course, talk about economic self-sufficiency among the municipalities and regions, when the transfer of powers is not accompanied by the transfer of resources? It is truly important that the Ministry of Interior through the Minister, the Deputy Minister and the Deputy Minister, has placed itself in a position to proceed directly with the institutional change in the clarification of responsibilities between the central state, the decentralised administrations, the regions and the municipalities. It is also important that Mr Petsas was placed in the committee responsible that for the New Democracy and the Government the granting of additional powers to local government without the transfer of such resources is a gift of gift. In conclusion, it is a strategic option for the government and the New Democracy as a whole to offer local government all the necessary development, institutional and financial incentives to enable it to upgrade and modernise its operation, with the aim of always improving the quality of life of its citizens. With these thoughts, I am voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Euthym. Please settle the Step in order to get SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance, Mr. Panos Skourletis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I recognise you with consistency on the basis of the content of the law which has come to Parliament today. In particular, Mr Vorides more than you, Mr Petsa, recognize him a consistency. It is the consequence of the concept that characterizes yourself and your line about democracy. A democracy that has been trampled, mutilated, a democracy that does not recognise the need to imprint the real popular local relations, a democracy that violates the constitutional requirement for the same vote. That is actually what you are recommending today in the most abominable way, abolishing the simple analogue. And you come and say that 'Where did it sound like small groups were represented on the municipal councils?' But who's gonna judge that? How about you? The people are judging it. Those who vote judge whether anyone has something to say about something specific to local society, if they want to help create a project to tackle local problems. Who's gonna say it? The "electioner" Minister? This is a truly 'vote-cooking'. It is a democratic 'vote-cooking' what you are proposing today! Mr Vlachos, who really is one of the people who rejoices to have a debate with him and an experienced parliamentarian, said, "But, where did the proposal on simple analogues be heard?" CEDEFOP. The unanimous decisions up to 2000 of the CEDEFOP meetings were in favour of the introduction of simple proportionality. Then other priorities came in. How do you forget that? Ladies and gentlemen, in the name of so-called governmentality, however, it is not rulership that we replace the municipal councils that are based on the Constitution with decisive character and give them their powers to the mayor. There is no governmentality of a man's authority in any case. The mayor shall be an executive body of the decisions of the municipal council. And these connections and parallels to the central political scene, with the House, are completely wrong and ignore local conditions, ignore the special conditions of local government. And what you've done since the first day you've taken the government was how you're going to rally a law that has never been implemented. Poverty can therefore be speculation, because you did not allow this law to be implemented, with the changes you made in August. And not only have you made changes, but you have tried in every way to undermine what is the core of the logic of mere analogy, that is, the possibility of wider convergence on the basis of programming consensus and agreements, saying that even if they need to co-exist, collaborate with factions, it must be done through their agglomeration. They are not partnerships equal to those that have been elected to the municipal council, but they are obliged to cancel the vote and the mandate they have received from the citizens in local society - I see that not by the Minister, my Admiral, you who are self-government, you are the only one who listens here - and they are subject to the mayor's order. That is, a full attempt to subdue to a dominance-centre old model. So self-government lost. In the context of your two-year lost government, self-government lost. You have heard, Minister, from your own Members of Parliament, criticism of local communities, a decisive step in the context of intra-democratic decentralisation, which has attempted to become an impediment to the degradation of life and of participation in small communities. You're pressing it down. The separate call was a large intersection for the operation of self-government and you remove it. And you say that in order to be elected by local councils you are obliged to be on the mayor's charm, the mayor's charm that can be elected by 43% plus one vote, after a 3% bar has been introduced and after you have reduced the number of municipal councils so that in practice the introduction to municipal councils is at 5%, 6% and 7%. And you call it a democracy! No, this approach is not a democratic one. It's deeply undemocratic. And self-government first of all means democracy and participation. That is why you are disturbed by the provisions that have been in place on the counterfactuals of this policy, the local referendums. And you did nothing but surgical intervention in the electoral system. Really, what about the issue of competences? You have shown us what is going on with the issue of competences. Do you know when? When you put a tombstone on the subject of redefining responsibilities between the two levels of self-government and the decentralised administration. It was the lost chance in the Constitutional Review. And you gave it this opportunity to the fans of the deep state, because for you self-government must be the active, long hand of the central government. This is what you always do post-culturally in this country, this is what you now serve. So self-government wants resources and responsibilities. We introduced into "CLINICAL" arrangements for categorising the municipalities. We've opened this road. You stopped this conversation. We have said that the issue of resources must be adapted to the specificities of mountain, island, rural and semi-urban municipalities. This debate has stopped. And you come here and tell us about anti-democratic considerations that I hope you will never bring them, such as the transfer of HISPI to self-government, which means further widening the disparities within the Greek territory between the municipalities that have a large residential load, precise land and property, and the region that will be deprived of resources because it will not have the corresponding property and the corresponding revenue. We, therefore, promoted support for self-government through the big competition for the nine thousand five hundred workers in cleanliness, that is, the services you want to privatise, wanting to turn municipalities into anonymous companies. That is what you are doing with the establishment of the institutions you are now setting up. We have promoted flagship regulations, such as individual protection measures. It was when Mr Vorides of these benches was ironing the government and saying 'What about retired 'personal protection measures'?' I told him - and I remember it like this - 'Truly, at the train station of the Municipality of Athens that I visited, Mr. Voridis has caught the container without gloves, without protective boots, without the vest, without milk in the morning for the workers to drink?' He hasn't. He doesn't know that. This is what you voted against and all of this today you've put aside, promoting...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u92	When did this happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u93	You brought this!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u94	Mayor, you weren't in the government at that time. Get up and tell them, honoring your presence in self-government, because these people here don't know from self-government. They don't know from self-government!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u95	We know very well, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, the main of all that characterises your great failure in the area of self-government was undermining over a year of the "Philodimos" programme. You canceled works, put some other works, restrained and reopened works. You left a year without a contract with the Central European Bank, to bring in a lesser and a system controlled by the Minister outside the objective procedures and the services of the Ministry of the Interior, to do what you know well, namely manipulate local societies, because you are Mavroyalures!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u97	No Mavroyalus!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u98	The Greek society is now aware of this and now it can compare the period of the spring of self-government over the days of SYRIZA government in difficult budgetary conditions and what it is waiting for now. You will hear this, Minister, and your own people - they are already whispering them - and you will not be able to overthrow the effort being made at the moment to bring about a genuine, genuine progressive radical movement within self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u99	Minister Petsas has asked and has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, I did not want to speak, but it is not possible to hear such expressions from Mr Skourletis about 'Blackyalus'. Who is "Blackyalus", Mr. Skourletis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u101	You.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u102	Well, let's just say two things, basically, to make it clear who's making fun of. What loan contract with the EIB for the "PHILIDEMOS" had you signed? What contract with the EIB did you sign up for "PHILOS"?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u103	Wasn't there?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u104	With the EIB contract, there is only the Samara Government and the Mitsotakis Government that has now been signed for the lending of the "Antonis Tritsis" programme...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u105	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u106	...and if you sign, bring her in.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u107	Don't interrupt, Mr. Haritsi. You'll talk about it in a minute. You'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u108	So it's you "Blackyalus". Secondly, what programme did we stop and re-embracing? You need to lighten the lamp to Takis Theodorikos who incorporated "Philodimos" projects into the program "Antonis Tritsis", because you did not have any funding for these projects. So don't make fun of yourself! As for the rest, your party was talking about "poor mayors" and asked for their cash to keep the country from going bankrupt. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, too. Mr Dionysios has the floor now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u110	I thought you said me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u111	Stamenite. If you would like, Mr. Admiral, Mr. Mayor, with many positions... Here, Mr Stamenitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u112	Mr Petsa, there are indeed fresh memories we asked for the cash resources of the municipalities and regions for the country to move forward. They're familiar with this. Three to four years have passed. These are really the "Black Globes" and not the ones you say today. After all, according to the bills voted by everyone is characterized. Today, however, we are discussing the implementation of a further commitment from the New Democracy, which sets the foundations and creates the conditions for the proper and healthy functioning of the local government bodies. It is well known that from the time that the debate on the introduction of simple proportional to self-government elections opened up, the New Democracy as opposition had openly expressed its opposition and even pointed out that the initiative of your own government would only have led to a disruption of normality in municipalities and regions. Today's Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has been committed from the outset that once our party became a government, the simple analogue will be a past. And that's what we do today. It is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that the implementation of Law 4555/2018 has created a number of problems and distortions in the administration of the ATTs. Don't you see them? That's not all we say. It is said by the representatives of the local authorities. Don't you hear them? Those who attended and their positions during the meetings in the committee found that the majority of people who serve local self-government not only agree with the abolition of mere analogy, but actually the current draft law is their universal requirement. Obviously, they actually understood what this bill means. This is because, above all, they know better than everyone what the right and effective way to serve citizens is. As we pointed out during the 'KLITHEN' vote by the SYRIZA government, the implementation of simple proportionality would put - and put - more obstacles to the implementation of the work of the mayors and regionals. He would not leave - and he did not leave - room for, however good the intentions of the authors, for effective and effective administration. It would keep - and it keeps - committed mayors and district rulers in an endless attempt to find impossible, as it turns out, alliances for decision-making. Only by the problems that have been experienced in the adoption of budgets or in the adoption of technical programmes we can understand what has been created by the implementation of the law. And, unfortunately, they understood the citizens who were the first losers of this process. We have all predicted that since then, and that is why we have warned and seen one - one happening in practice. And it seems from today's debate that the only people who do not see them are SYRIZA's colleagues. I think, therefore, that it is more than obvious that the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy party would not allow this problem to continue, we would say, a legislative framework. That is why today, in neutral political time, and since we have the results and experience of implementation, but also after a thorough dialogue with the directly involved, the CEDEFOP, the mayors, the district managers, the representatives of the elected councils, the Interior Ministry brings the bill with which we will overcome all these discrepancies created by No 4555/2018. And what are the changes that will fix the problems? In short, I too shall refer in turn to the provisions I consider most important and with which the set is changing and returning to normality. Firstly, the provision for restoring the five-year term so that in an extended period municipal and regional authorities can produce and implement their programme. The mayors and districtlors who will be elected by the October 2023 elections will have a full five-year term starting on 1 January 2024, a stable electoral cycle that we must point out is accompanied by specific dates for elections, the nomination of candidates, and the declaration of combinations. Secondly, the threshold for the election of a candidate combination from the first Sunday to 43% and, as the Minister said, without prejudice to the principle of proportionality and to the other threshold of 3% for the possibility of electing a municipal or regional consultant. Thirdly, ensuring three fifths of the board members to the winner of the election to finally end with the phenomena of local government. The majority will now be able to implement its programme and carry out the work for which its fellow citizens have voted for it. Ladies and gentlemen, the municipal and regional councils must be strengthened in terms of both their nature and their strength, which, as the Minister has very typically noted at committee meetings, is the key component which composes the government's strategy for more effective, stronger, more functional and independent local government. The centre of all efforts by this government and the Ministry of Interior aimed at achieving this objective is the interests of the citizens. We believe that the possibility of proper administration is better served by the principles of democracy. We also believe that pluralism, which you claim to defend mere analogy, is not served by intergovernmentalism. It is our duty, Parliament, to legislate and provide the appropriate tools to strengthen the work of the TAs, not to create obstacles. In today's vote, therefore, it will be judged and will prove who is on the part of the citizens, who perceive democracy as a State that gives solutions and does not create deadlocks, who shield the rulership and want the progress and development of local societies and, finally, who are those who respect pluralism and reject maladministration. The New Democracy has proved to which side it is standing, and I do not think there is any reason to mention more. Today, however, it is more a great opportunity for the other political forces of the House to join with their vote on the right side, choosing for OTAs the rulership for local communities as well as progress. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u113	We also thank you very much for the consistency in time. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you, but at the same time, that we will also inform the groups of Parliament that we will be completing this evening by the seventh cycle and by the list you have in your hands up to Mr Barkas Konstantinos. Tomorrow morning we'll start from the eighth cycle, that is, from Mrs. Skondra Silina and start at 9:00 in the morning. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u114	I'll start with a question. Why change the electoral law for municipalities and regions? The answer lies in the same electoral system you are proposing. Restore a provocative electoral system whereby the first power with 43% becomes almighty. He will be elected mayor and district ruler. At the same time, you are intervening rawly with each trade union, forcing them to declare a strike, with such a percentage. Even if it is the largest, you do not accept it in this case. And even to decide a strike unanimously in most cases, and to take the courts out illegal and abusive, and now you're talking about banning the strike from a secondary trade union and you want to go through it in this anti-territorial monster. Finally you want to pass another thick chain to strangle the right to strike the worker. Your design will be cancelled in practice, will not pass. A reply will be given to the rallys on June 3rd and the totalitarian strike on June 10th, where the workers are resolutely sending a message that slaves in the 21st century will not be made. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] What are you doing, too? You are setting the 3% threshold for the election of a municipal or regional consultant. You seek not to have at your feet the racing and irresistible attitude of the communists and popular fighters who cooperate with them from any position of either a majority or a minority, always defending the labour interests. At the same time, you reduce seats in municipal and regional councils. So, in combination with the 3% limit you will rule out forces even if they exceed this 3% - they may be 5% especially in small and medium-sized populations - and not make a representative. The most reactive electoral system you are proposing is therefore coming to add even more restrictions and exclusions to strengthen urban diploma and local administration. Of course, the same goal was served in a different way by the electoral system that SYRIZA had brought, because the collaps of simple analogues kept the blackmailing character of the second round with a headline of the mayor's personalized institution as the main expressor of the urban consensus in the reactionary overthrows of local administration. In short, you have a common strategic choice to align the functioning and funding of the local administration with the priorities of business groups away and against the popular needs and struggles that are perpetuated and remain uncovered. For us, the vote means a simple analogous and in the election of the local bodies without any illusion for the role of local government as a regional state institution in line with the anti-grass policy of the central urban state. What purpose, then, do change serve? You want the local administration to be more effective in promoting anti-popular politics by serving more effectively and faster changes in the needs and priorities of the major business groups. Of course, you are not interested in the needs of the people's layers, because you are shrining them and privatising them. How close are your reasons for lack of rulership? But in most cases you are voting for your common strategy to strengthen business interests and profitability by exploiting municipal property and services. A characteristic example in the Municipality of Piraeus, the first port of the country. The SYRIZA party not only voted for the creation of a development organisation that would act as a vehicle to pass more easily and faster pieces of responsibilities and infrastructure of the municipalities in the exploitation and profitability of private capital, but, although it was not entitled to participate in the Board of Directors of the Agency, however, it resigned adviser to the conservative party to participate the head of the combination of SYRIZA, Nikos Belavila. So good is your cooperation, as is the case here in Parliament. Five days ago you voted for the concession of the Greek in the region. You have voted for the extension of the toxic bomb of the Ghost dump. Finally, the confrontation between you on who will be a driver and what a co-guide in the management of the anti-grassroots policy and poverty your policy creates! It is a common policy that you support and follow. It is apparent in local taxation, in return, in all services, that the provision of services by the municipalities to private interests, lighting, greening, etc., at the expense of people's needs. Besides, it doesn't surprise us. You yourself are the ones who signed the third Memorandum, privatisations at the fourteen airports, the crack of the National Labour Convention, the blow to the right of strike that you started and so on. Far from the anti-grass list. Of course, you show sympathy and charity to the huge problems - the result of your anti-population policy, which the people live through: Unemployment, poverty, insecurity. So all the urban governments have shaped a suffocating reactionary institutional framework over the past few years in local government, turning municipalities and regions into a lever of the anti-population attack, overthrowing of industrial relations, commercialisation of basic social structures, carving and tax raid, etc. You continue to do so, and we are therefore voting against your monstrous works.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr Christos Kelles from New Democracy has the floor and then Mr Alexis Haritsis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis Government is now making a further promise, putting an end to Ottawa government. This legislation establishes a more operational and more modern framework for the emergence of municipal and regional authorities that will enable the self-government to honour citizens' confidence, and will inevitably implement the programme for which they are elected. Without triples and stumblings from the Opposition, any party exercising command over Ottas will have strong governance, which will be close to the citizen. Of course, we must inform our fellow citizens that the draft law we are discussing today and we will be voting on today stems primarily from the will of the self-government. Both the JRC and the HRC agree with the main axes of the bill, while in 2018 they were tied together with our line against the law brought by the SYRIZA government, Law 4555/2018, warning their inspirations about the chaos that was to prevail. It is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, that the mayor or regional director should be elected in the second round by a large majority and that he should not have the majority in his board. This was attempted by the previous government and the Government of New Democracy in its election to one of the first bills to vote for, Law 4623/2019, dismantled the total dissolution of self-government. I believe we all remember that, among other things, the strengthening of economic committees, the irrevocable partnerships between municipal and regional authorities and the adoption of major rules for legal persons and the decisive procedures on the budget of the technical and operational programme have been defined in this law. As parliamentarian, as well as former Deputy Mayor of the Municipality of Larissaion, I am convinced that the new law will contribute decisively so that Greek self-government evolves fully into local and regional government and interacts with the Ministries and Central Services, with a view to the sustainable and strong development of the country and, in particular, the province. First of all, the lengthening of the electoral cycle to five years offers local and regional authorities stability and better planning for the implementation of projects. The decoupling of the self-government elections from the European elections will enable all stakeholders to focus on the real needs of societies and the particular conditions prevailing in every corner of the country, directing public dialogue, the strategy of the respective government and the agenda of the main political forces of the place not in micro-political and partisan interests, but in the local, regional and European priorities, that is, what multi-level European governance empowers. The 43% plus 1 limit required in the first round to highlight municipal and regional authorities, together with three fifths of the seats of local and regional councils, is an element of undeniable governance of local and regional affairs. Here it should be recalled that this percentage is increased by one unit by the law in relation to 42%, provided for by Law 3463/2006, while three fifths not only ensure the necessary majority in decision-making, but also the wider participation of the winners of the winning combination in the implementation of the projects in order to give a stronger voice to the citizens. It is also necessary to point out that all views are guaranteed, given that the 3% threshold for entry to the councils is set at a rate set for the national elections. At the same time, the candidate procedure is being modernised and the number of members of the board is streamlined. In particular, the candidates will be submitted simply and directly through the Gov.gr, while the combinations will be submitted by 31 August of the year of the election, so that candidates will be known in time to the electorate, that is, one and a half months before the elections, which will take place on a stable basis on the second Sunday of October. The number of municipal and regional consultants shall be adjusted according to the population base of each section and the costs of the consultants’ allowances shall be reduced. At the same time, however, care is taken to increase municipal councillors from ten to fifty thousand inhabitants who came from the association of more than six municipalities or communities. Overall, this legislation is a new charter for local government. Taking into account the other provisions relating to election blocks and the technical details of the elections, which are updated, as well as the bill to be submitted to Parliament in the near future in relation to the introduction of multi-level governance, a sustainable legal framework is formed that will give new impetus to local affairs governance and will be inextricably interconnected with existing legislation on the Final and Digital State. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, the country has another credible instrument to support its development together. To close, I do not want to mention the Friday's COVID Digital Certificate MPA, which has been in force since today. This is an extremely valuable tool in which our country is ahead in order to restore even faster and more fully our economic and social activity, by facilitating the movement of citizens and at the same time shielding public health. Greece once again, despite the difficulties, is beginning to become a model in dealing with the pandemic thanks to the initiatives and sensory of the Prime Minister. Here I would like to refer a little to the COVID digital certificate. As provided for in the Digital Certificate, those who have completed the vaccination cycle, those who have a negative PCR, or those who have had a disease in the past period will be entitled to the digital certificate. That's who they deserve. I think and believe that it should also be deserved here in the extreme past and have made a dose of vaccine, in line with the recommendation made by the chairman of the Committee on Vaccines, Mr Theodoridou. Having said that, our life will soon return to normality and the restoration will be comprehensive and final, inspiring the way for the strong growth that has been promised to the Greeks and will take place by Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy. For all these reasons, we support and vote for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Kelles. Mr. Haritsis has the floor and immediately thereafter the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Hetas, follows. Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I will try in the few minutes that I have been able to present some key aspects of the work of the SYRIZA government in self-government and compare them to what the New Democracy Government has done over the last two years, first of all on a very crucial issue of self-government and staffing. Prior to Panos Skourletis, the 3K flagship proclamation, which brought us to more than eight and a half thousand young, targeted and permanent recruitments to the city's rewarding services, upgraded the services offered by the OTAs to the citizens and abolishing the unacceptable status of the working hostage of thousands of people, but also so that the municipalities can operate in their most basic area of responsibility, cleanliness, without being the joy of each contractor. Three years after the municipalities are still operating today with the same call, with the 3K. No relevant notice has been issued, not even launched by the New Democracy Government, and of course very critical - and comes from the self-government bodies themselves - it is also the question of staffing the technical services of the municipalities to be able to respond to fundamentally the procedures for the preparation, development and implementation of projects. There we had the opportunity, in December 2018, at the CEDEFOP conference to present the recruitment programme of a thousand five hundred new executives in self-government for the three years 2019-2021, having ensured the necessary financial space but also with the possibility that the recruitments have now given us one by one in the public sector, we have chosen to cover the pressing needs of the municipalities to scientific staff. Unfortunately, and at this point, after the July 2019 elections, this programme was referred to the bells, leaving the municipalities once more in the colds of the bath. Secondly, it is a very important question of funding, of course. For the first time after years, over our days, central self-government resources have been increased toward local government and criteria have been laid down for their fairer distribution. Apart from the population, other criteria have been introduced, which have to do with mountainousness, with islandity, with the level of unemployment, with the level of poverty, so that the distribution of these very important funds is fairer. And of course, with the innovative 'PHILODIMOS' programme, whether it is the current government or not - it has proved from its path that it has not liked at all - we have ensured the financing of very critical local infrastructure projects in water and sewerage, building infrastructure, rural roads, the supply of wastewater and machinery, the support and upgrading of social, sports and cultural infrastructures. The best tradition - because this debate has been opened again, for no reason at all - in my view it is precisely because it was the first programme after many years that was the first to meet the real needs dictated by self-government and its institutions. And what happened? As soon as the New Democracy Government took over at night, "Philodimos" was punished for having entrusted a financial instrument to the political opponent of the new government. This was done, and they were lost - and this was the worst of all - two years until a new financing programme was set up, with even less favourable conditions for self-government, the definition, in my opinion, of the political micro-purpose, old-fashioned and management failure. And here, as a whole, on the issues of funding, we now have self-government at a much worse fate, I would say, compared to where it had managed to find itself, with difficulties, two years ago. Because, of course, the Government of New Democracy has succeeded - because it is a success - even the Public Investment Programme has reached a minimum of twenty years before the coming of the pandemic, and now it seems that self-government bodies are excluded from the financing of the Recovery Fund. You could, Minister - and this is a proposal - make use of the development bank by creating a special section of evaluation, maturing and funding projects, a practice that is internationally tested and recognised, and thus support local government and the recovery fund in advance. Instead of that, you are choosing to grant all the projects in the TDID, even locally interested projects, with the obvious aim of forming a more centralised model, which seeks full control rather than mature projects based on the development and social needs of each region. Thirdly, very basic, beyond staffing, financing, it is, of course, the institutional framework of self-government, which we are mostly debating today in this draft law. With KLISTHEN, ladies and gentlemen, with the progressive reform of KLISTHENH, which was the result of a multi-level consultation, we have in practice implemented the opening up of self-government to local communities, and have put an end to the co-operative system, the mayor's model, the one-sided control of committees. The popular will in the composition of the councils, which have made the decisive and democratically legitimized institutions, has finally been clearly reflected, while the introduction of functions such as local referendums, popular assemblies, intra-democratic decentralisation, broadened democracy, upgraded the citizens' vote and strengthened their participation in the commons. I will say a word more about the issue of communities. Honestly, I didn't think so, too. In 2019, travelling to my own region, Messinia, I was positively surprised how much this reform had been embraced, especially for communities, villages, towns, small societies, and local communities from people who until then had not had the slightest involvement with the public and from people who came from all over the political spectrum. Because for the first time they were given the opportunity, the public was given the opportunity to vote separately for his community. The responsibility of the communities was laid down to decide on the utilization of a percentage of the investment funds allocated to them. It was very hopeful that young people, for the first time, participated in local issues. Unfortunately, this possibility is now lost. The selfish operation disappears and more than twenty thousand people across the country, who decided to deal with local things through communities, return to their homes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I ask for your tolerance for two minutes. Indeed, this return to the retrograde, obsolete model of reliance on local councils, which will be reported and operated as localists of the mayor concerned, really cannot be explained to these citizens. And I sincerely expect to see how the 50 eight Members of Parliament who will be invited to vote on this regulation, how they will then explain it to the citizens, especially to the villages, and how to talk again about the revitalisation of the countryside, to support local communities for the support of villages. Honestly, he's asking me a question. Ladies and gentlemen, in our view the New Democracy has not fought the simple analogue, the communities, the opening up of self-government to local communities because it has cared about so-called 'governance', but because it was afraid that it would lose control. Because it perceives self-government as a client network and a long hand from the central authority and the party mechanism in local communities. Your conviction is, unfortunately, that the less involved in the public the better. It is quite clear that, as in so many other fields, in employment, in education, in culture, in environmental protection, in how we understand growth, so in self-government two different worlds conflict. We fought for a strong and independent self-government, with increased citizens' participation, adequate resources and staff, with operational support for Ottas, an administration capable of leading the national bet of the fair and sustainable development of local societies. That is why we are committed that together with all those forces that perceive and support the progressive and independent nature of self-government, we will cancel this law that weakens local communities and devaluates citizens' vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u119	Thank you too, Mr. Haritsi. Mr. Hetas, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, has the floor and then Mr. Andreas Koutsoubas will speak from the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Petta, I will tell you a little what I did not have to tell you before, when I was not given the floor, about some of the things you said. First of all, you should know that it is very honouring that it was the only President of the Party, Mr. Velopoulos, who has so far at least honoured your bill and talked about the bill. You should also be aware, because you are very diligent that the political leader can speak on whatever matters he wants, develop his agenda, open the Ventalia and report on topical issues, as well as on topical issues such as the parliamentary representative and the President-in-Office of the Council. Now we're going to some issues. As I said before, you are also a man of mild tone, of work and not of speech and voice of intense. It is not personal to comment, politically we are discussing here. It has nothing to do with Petsa, Heta or anyone. You know what? He wants political courage to come out of the New Democracy Government today and tell us - I do not know what exactly you are presenting, what Greek statistics were - for lawlessness and crime, at the time, Mr Pechas, who had a new incident, while Greece seems at least, unfortunately, to have become a mafia nursery, you to present us and tell the Greek Parliament that the world is listening to has fallen - he says - crime in Greece or the petty crime, as you said, etc. What can I really say? It is, unfortunately, a country where the mafia lives and reigns and all depends and has to do with the impunity of the killers. Don't really close your eyes, Minister. It is not possible to say such things in this Chamber. You said about the Chrysochoid file. Listen to something. We as a Greek Solution 15 days ago from the Step that we said: We know that Mr Chrysochoidis has an envelope with a thousand names, heavy incidents, cruel criminals. That's the kind of person he had. You should go testify with him. And you did that after ten days. So don't tell us about the file. We stumbled you once again and told you. And let me ask you a question: is the Minister for Civil Protection - Mr Petsa, make this a little picture - an envelope with the names of cruel criminals? We knew it and said it and asked for the deportation of these people, because they must not move between the Greeks and the Greeks. So, why did he take him to the Arena Ice? We said he had it. So what did he ask for? Should the institutional procedures be initiated, which should have been started anyway? After you had this file and you know who they are, where they live, who's back, what they're doing. You know them. So either he did - let me have the expression - for effects, for photographer and for channels, show you are going to order while you had him beforehand. What did he do? Goes to the Areo Ice, tell him the Areo Ice "stick to arrest them". Do it alone, if you have it in your hands. They don't make sense to what you say, Mr. Pecha, really. We're going to another thing now. What else did you tell us, Mr Pecha, in answer to what the President of the Greek Solution said earlier? You said, referring mainly to illegal immigration, that it is all good. So, what does the Greek people hear today? What do Greek citizens and Greek women hear? What do they hear here today? That with crime is all good, there is law and order, while outside they fall like chickens every day - like chickens fall out again - and that with the case of illegal immigration you are doing all right. Well, I'm sorry, don't you live here? You probably live here, but you don't live there, you don't live on the islands, you don't live in some other parts of Greece to see what the world is pulling every day. You do not live in Samos, Mr. Petsa, where Mr.Metakis has become a mediator politician, he has built an entire city with ten thousand illegal immigrants, with coarse money, with daily made in Turkey, while Samos earthquakes are still awaiting rent benefits. And what did you tell us? That it is the state's obligation - you say - to treat and feed these people. Really? We didn't know that. When the state, Mr. Petsa, has cured and fed the Greeks, then it also has an obligation to care and feed them. Let's talk about it. These should not be done in a bankrupt country, today - and a good month to have - that the auctions are being released. Open the setting. It's called the media of mass opinion. They don't say the auctions are starting. They say the setting is opened, the platform is ahead of you, get in and let you lose your home. Awesome, huh? Now, listen: Open the setting, he says. What arrangement? Go get the world's houses. We have total liberalisation of auctions. Today, on June 1st, people are being released from auctions. It's over and out. Did you have a home? You'll be a tenant, sir, for 20 years, and then I'll call you. If you have to pay, fine. If you don't have to pay, I'll call you right now. I will not say, Mr Pecha, where these houses are going and how they are caradic because they have smelled blood, the NGO crows, who have taken homes whole, building to put all illegal immigrants inside. I'm not going to go to that. I'm not going to go to that at all. So, what did you tell us about lignite? I'm sorry. So, Greece will geographically save the planet? Are we serious, Mr. Pecha? Germany will have lignites by 2035 and then we will rush from 2021 to closing the lignite plants, while Turkey is building a lignites factory, China now with lignites, Yugoslavia now with lignites, Poland will close it after 2035, as I said before, Germany after 2035. Greece, however, which is so small a piece, will save the planet and close them from 2021. How are these things done, Mr. Pecha? These are terrible things. Explain to us. Can we talk about something else? When, then, Serbia will have, when Turkey will have, as we have told you several times, that is, can I say something? Does the exhaust gas have a border? So it's just going to come out of the chimney in Turkey, and it's limited there, and it won't go any further? These are not serious things, Mr Pecha, and you represent the government today. That's why I'm talking about you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will take time from my denture, three more minutes. Let's go down to the elementary fees and the fines. We have put the matter as a Greek Solution to both Mr Voridis and you. What did we say? I've got a shop, I'm making weddings, you poor bastard and you're baptism. I don’t work for eight months, for neither marriages nor baptisms nor conferences nor anything. I'm charged by the municipality with 50,000 euros. They've been gathered in eight months. I didn't pay 'cause I don't. He's putting another 60 fine on me, and it's 110 on me. I'm just doing it so we can all figure it out. I don't have to pay. What are we asking for? We told you to see it, and what are you doing? Increase the tariff so that people can take a breath, delete the fines, not the municipal fees, the fines and force this out of the piece of tax information. This man is locked up, he's going to die financially. Nor can he get tax information, work for eight months can, the state shut it down, you've charged him with fines on municipal fees, you don't give him a dosing, you don't make it easier. Hey, what the fuck is this man doing? Take a stone and leave. There's nothing else to do. That's what we said to see, and we really said it with interest to save these people. I will not go, Mr Petsa, although of course you have not mentioned at all, because you have responded to what Mr Velopoulos said today, you have not made any comment on the Tsavosoglu visit. You didn't do anything. That's where you keep radio silence. Nothing you said about Mr. Tsavusoglu's kissing and hugs with the provocative Mr. Tsavusoglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u121	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u122	I shall close, Mr President, in a really minute and thank you for your tolerance. And I'll close, Mr. Pecha, with one last. We will go a little bit on an issue that you have not mentioned, because auctions are a direct issue, and employment is a direct matter. Can I ask you something, Mr. Pecha? In fact, you know - and I am addressing the Members of the New Democracy - that the New Democracy Party is the party of Karamanlis, Samaras, all of them. Is New Democracy the first time that it abolishes collective agreements? Does it abolish collective agreements? You have always been supporters, always in favour of collective agreements and liberals, you have become hard neoliberal! That's what you're doing now. And will you vote for that? Don't you have a voice to disagree with Mr. Hatzidakis? Reduction of wages? Because whoever does not pay overtime, Mr President, will not receive money, so his income is reduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u123	Hang up, please. You've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u124	I'm done with this. We do not have any speakers, Mr President. Of the hundred and twelve, there are no speakers. I'll be done in a minute. Really, thank you very much. You know that a young worker - to listen to them, Mr President, these things are important, will be voted on, will become the law of the state - whoever has no right to choose, will sit, speak with his boss. And he'll tell him what his boss? "Come here, honey boy, take this contract and sign it." 'Doesn't make me.' "If it doesn't work for you" notice now "I don't fire you, but I don't hire you." Mr. Hatzidakis' intelligence. And of course, the Greek will arrive - I don't have time, really - to pay for his day off. These are the serious things, Mr Pecha: labour, auctions, financial tsunami. These are the important things you need to see and not the OTAs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u125	Minister, you have the floor for legislative improvements. Mrs Georgiovasili, immediately after the Minister's legal improvements, you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u126	I have already announced to you, before the speech by Mr Vlachos, that we will be tabling the legislative improvements which, I believe, are confusing enough from the debate that took place at committee level and from the comments that have been made today. It concentrates on three main issues: the issue of communities, the issue of regional and municipal councillors and the issue of offenders. After all, then, legislative improvements concern the following: We differentiate the last two categories of municipalities and create new categories, hundred thousand to hundred and fifty thousand and hundred and fifty thousand to over, in order to alleviate the reduction in the number of members of municipal councils in large municipalities. It is something that has been heard here too. At the same time, we are giving more members of municipal councils to municipalities with a population of between 50 000 and 50 000, which are composed of more than six municipal units. The number of municipal councillors is therefore lower than in the current context. Secondly, it is foreseen that councils of municipal communities are not elected in the municipalities of Attica, with the exception of the municipalities of the Regional Islands, East and West Attica and the municipalities of par. 4 of Article 2 of Law 3852/2010, i.e. the district apartments in which the settlements, the seats of the municipalities, are divided, with a population of more than 100 000 inhabitants. In the case of a non-election of a council of the municipal community, the responsibilities of the council of the municipality shall be exercised by the economic committee of the municipality and the responsibilities of the president of the municipality by the mayor or his/her deputy mayor. In addition, for the municipalities and for the communities, the amounts of offenders for the elections are maintained, as they were so far. It is something that has also been asked within the committee in several respects, considering that increasing offenders can prevent some from participating in the public. Fourthly, it is clarified that the president of municipal communities with a population of three hundred and below is the first to cross the combination which he had obtained during the initial vote, from the first round, in the municipal community the absolute or relative majority of all valid lists and the rest of the candidates for the combination are declared as substitutes. We also have a smaller reduction than the initial draft of the number of regional consultants. We therefore have the amendment. Article 59(2). In the first category four members are added, so from thirty-one regional consultants, we go to thirty-five. In the second, also four members, from forty-one to forty-five. To the third ten members, from fifty-one to sixty-one. And in the Attica region fourteen members, seventy-one in eighty-five, compared with one hundred members up until today. Also, in order to facilitate candidates and for reasons of legal certainty, we provide for rights of demilitarisation, which can be exercised from 1 August of the year of the election, up to the previous day of the final date for the submission of the combined declaration. In addition, the coin of officials with regard to public law and private law shall be deleted for an indefinite period of time in public, municipality, regions and legal persons registered in the Register of General Government Institutions, Article 14 of Law 4270/2014 concerning the exercise of functions of Head of Unit of Division. It is also foreseen that anyone who is deprived of his political rights during the period of submission of the declaration will be prevented. It is a legislative provision, which has something to do with what Mr Kamines said, if I understood correctly from his position. It is foreseen that lawyers have been hired by a mandate from the municipalities or regions, who have resigned from their post in order to stand for office, may return to it, if they are not elected or elected and their term of office ends for any reason, in analogous to Article 32 of Law 4257/2014. I shall now put them to the vote, Mr President. I think it was a fruitful debate both at committee level and in consultation with the social partners, which allows us to improve the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u127	I would ask that they be photographed and distributed to the rapporteurs. Mrs. Gerovali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin and stand by the huge security deficit in the country. Security deficit both within borders and outside. I do not want to expand, of course, to blackmail the country's international image with hijacking and spy games. I do not want to dwell in detail on the fact that you have been cancelled, cancelled, canceled, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the contest for the new identities that were ready. Since then, two years have passed and not only have there been no new identities issued, such as our obligation since August 2021, on the basis of the European directive and the European regulation, but there is not even a contractor and the landscape is also quite complex. And that, of course, is because this has direct consequences for the country's international obligations on security issues and, of course, for the movement of Greek citizens. I will stand up to the election slogan "law and order", a slogan that we all know by the way now, knows all Greek society, that it has become terror and affliction. For who? For the criminals? Oh, no. For the para-states? Oh, no. Terror and fight for students, workers, citizens, families. We all remember the episodes of Nea Smyrni and the last few days, several days, we have been living scenes of phasingest: mafia murders noon, death contracts of journalists, crime in Sweet Waters, executions in Zakynthos, Metamorphosis, two days ago in Sepolis, yesterday in Vari, today shot at Alimos. Mr Mitsotakis said in an election that citizens should live in open windows. Not only open windows, bulletproof in the windows after today. Of course, drug trafficking and organised crime rise. Sexual attacks on women, minor girls on the street are increasing, but the Prime Minister deals with university police. Because the answer to serious crime is, of course, a new police force in the summer for months now, closed universities. And things are even more serious. I heard Mr Chrysochide saying yesterday: "The organised crime has had a lot of money and has started to legitimise it in business for a long time. Thus, if it enters the institutions, we will have a question of normal mafia." That's what the Minister said yesterday. What does Mr Chrysohoid mean? Has organised crime been put into the institutions? Now, imagine this statement that I had made it as Minister of Government SYRIZA. The New Democracy chat. It's just Tuesday and good summer -- it's also 1st of the month. So this is about organised crime. What have they been doing for so long with all that we have been reported in the election, have they been pro-electioned? And what does the Minister do, except for admitting the defeat of the government with these statements and, of course, transferring files to the prosecutor etc.Huh? Good show, but the Minister's not a clerk carrying files to the D.A. And of course, there has been an effort to shift responsibility to justice. The trick and that. Gentlemen of government, let the police do their job. We're returning it to you. From the so-called security that you have shown in the election, you have brought the absolute insecurity to the citizens. My appreciation for why it is because insecurity feels the New Democracy, the Government itself. She's an insecure government, otherwise she wouldn't need that kind of force show, but shells. With today's bill, obviously, it comes to undermining once again the democratic institutions and prolonging her life with all the known old tricks. Already in August 2019, after the elections, under Law 4623/2019, it was allegedly ensuring the governance of the ATTs. The same logic that the Prime Minister was the center of the returning State, so in the center of the OTAs you put the mayor, the district mayor, increased responsibilities - but - and of course this law was also contrary to the Constitution and the European Charter of Local autonomy, of course also altering the election result. With a majority of 3/5 in favour of the majority in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Increasing the competence of these committees which, by 3/5, could now have absolute control over both municipal and regional councils. These interventions were not enough for the insecure New Democracy, for the insecure government. We're going back to 2006 now, we're going back. Mayor or district manager not since 50 plus 1 but 43%, so that we do not have unfinisheds on the second Sunday, we do not have any trouble and work on the first Sunday. And the one who goes out with 43% will get 60% of the seats, not 51. On the other hand, the number of consultants is falling. Remove the third call for communities and provide for compulsory costing with the central ballot and fictitious majorities and, of course, gradually, you might want to abolish the opposition. This is all when participatory budgets are drawn up in Europe, proportionate systems are promoted. The New Democracy is doing exactly the opposite: an entirely majority system, a abolition of the analogue system created by SYRIZA with "CLINEN I". I do not know how Europeans you are, but here it seems to me that you are anti-Europeans. The representative authority, the principle of equal voting, the principle of decentralisation shall be abolished. You want the long hand in controlling local government and recycling the blue executives. I think that's the way you've found it to survive. I don't think it's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Gerovali. Mr Andreas Koutsoubas from New Democracy will be given the floor and Mr Yoyakas will be followed. Here, Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. I am taking the political temptation - and I wanted to escape - with my previous colleague, without undermining the facts he mentioned, but to confuse these events of organised crime not only with the bill we are discussing, but with the more general issues of politics, it is, dear friend Olga - because I consider you to be a great presence in this House - a non-violent populism. And if you come back to this insurmountable populism, once again the Greek people will bring you into this position. I'm actually in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u131	Your words were election.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u132	I will be consistent with what I have done so far from this Step and the consequence of my words has the following content: Having a view of the simple analogue - I am not giving it to you or the New Democracy, it is an inalienable right - not just respecting it, but also accepting it. Clearly today there are two points of view, two theoretical positions and they apply to practice: the electoral system of simple analogy - because this is the main one today and not the other ones which are being discussed, the simple ones you are discussing, which may be correct, and many of them have been accepted or will be legislative intervention - and the enhanced analogy. But I have said it another time, when we voted for some laws and had objections and concerns, that a law may not work. This is the greatness of the Parliamentary Republic, when we can in this Chamber, when something is not functional, when something does not offer society, when something contradicts the continuing social and economic developments, the Parliamentary Republic and for us who make mistakes or omissions to change it. That's not bad. And what, then, has been proved by this law that you brought in and rightly had this viewpoint and believed? It was a political platform, as you say, an ideology in a mere analogue. You brought a law. We tried him. We have experience, we have knowledge. What's the matter now? If you will continue to insist on an anachronistic position, which has become non-functional and efficient? What has this law, ladies and gentlemen, brought about by a mere analogy? Obstacles to local government. He didn't solve it, but he added problems. It proved to be an ineffective local government, a failure to implement the policies, the programming speech of the authorities elected. In other words, it was a change in the will to implement the programmes, a change in the will of civil society. In this respect the question that is being asked, which is a catalyst, is this: will you continue to insist after what has been heard, after an in-depth debate through the electoral process envisaged? Will you keep insisting? Because many fixed parties positions must sometimes change. May I remind you of the 'EEC and NATO' of how many on the left had adopted it and how many are now on the other side? I'm saying it. It is not wrong to change a position which proves to be ineffective. So we now have knowledge and experience. Will we continue to be in the bad, stagnation, or should we go where we can make reforms with any good observations that the opposition can make major and minor? So, what is it doing with this bill? A return to normality, a possibility of achieving objectives, without hostage and transactions. And I am quoting because it has been said or left to understand for our own part that transactions can only take place with opposition parties. Transactions happen when you have an absolute majority! They drink, "do this to me, or I don't vote"! I do not think you have experienced these in the province at least, but much more here, which we do not know. With this piece of legislation, therefore, we are abolishing malfunctions and normality, rulership. It is necessary, as was pointed out by most of the factors, those who have knowledge, who have gone to implement it and have not been able to achieve it. Your refusal to take this legislative intervention is a vote against the effectiveness, good functioning of the TAs, progress and reforms. You claim that we had to and can achieve convergences. I'm doing a parentheses. To achieve convergence, there does not need to be a simple analogue. Convergences have to be found in society, self-government groups must also look forward to achieving through the enhanced analogy system. So there were no shocks or consents. Compatibility with transactions has been achieved, which is a crack on the foundations of the democratic functioning of the ATTs. That's it, if we keep this system going. We therefore restore the malfunctions that have been created and create the conditions for better governance. Will you tell me - and I address the Minister - this: can this law resolve everything? Oh, no. He may also have some flaws in any intervention in the individual articles and need corrections, but as I have told you, this is the majesty of the Parliamentary Republic to have the opportunity through discussion, when we see that something is wrong, to be able to change it. Otherwise, we would not be a parliamentary democratic system. We are therefore creating these conditions and you are insisting on them. So if you insist on this refusal, you make a mistake. You insist on a model of malfunctioning. We insist on efficiency through cyberdynamicity. So the dilemma is catalytic: forward or stagnation. In a society that wants to progress quickly, because this is how developments are imposed, you are in your attitude to progress and reform. I urge you for the last time, for the sake of local societies, to change your position and support this legislative intervention, which gives solutions to the problems of local societies. And of course I also support this legislative intervention, the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u133	Thank you too, Mr Kutsuba, especially for keeping time. Mr Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy has the floor and immediately thereafter Mr. George Mulkiotis from the Change Movement. Here, Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u134	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as an Opposition we said in July 2018 that the SYRIZA government opened the door to government and law in law. About the two years that we have spent since the mere proportionalness of the composition of municipal and regional councils is, I think, enough, so that we can say that this assessment has been confirmed and, not in a few cases, not in a few years. What inherited the self-government stuff? We have seen the elected mayors be held hostage to all kinds of minority groups, failing to make election commitments that were voted on by the majority of citizens, budgets, accounts and technical projects that could not be agreed and passed. All this, ladies and gentlemen, is not a secret, it is not a risk, it is not a creation of our imagination. All of us who are close to self-government are watching them and know them. The directly involved, the representatives of the municipalities and regions of the country, have said so. So, this experience, ladies and gentlemen, revealed something else, that it was an experiment that was not intended to strengthen the self-government and the voice of local societies, that it only served to create SYRIZA's power chambers at the expense of the functioning of the self-government institutions. It was, in short, a product of the political context, a product of party calculation with ideological personality, that of the allegedly authentic expression of popular will. We, ladies and gentlemen, have said from the outset that we will change this law as a government. We have tried very early to give a temporary solution so that the administrative work of the municipalities can proceed by passing a number of decisive responsibilities from the municipal councils to the economic committees, where the mayors have the majority there. And we are now coming with this bill to restore the possibility for top collective bodies of self-government to be able to operate more effectively, faster and more flexiblely, to allow the combinations chosen by the majority of citizens to do what they have voted on and to be judged for them. Because what at the end of the day is of interest to the citizen is to be given solutions to the issues of his city, his village, his everyday life. This brings 43%, plus one vote, to the minimum rate of a combination of municipal or regional elections, and that is why we are subsidising the combinations of mayors and regional authorities with the 3/5 seats in municipal and regional councils respectively. These are the two key changes that this bill brings. The rapporteur, as well as the Members of the Coupling Committee who preceded them, have mentioned them in detail. What I would like to stress, however, is the change in the way the Municipal and Regional Authorities are played. It is only a part of a larger, ambitious draft of the government for self-government, an important institutional reform that I would sum up in two words: competences and resources. It is the plan for reallocating responsibilities between central government, decentralised administrations, regions and municipalities, which will mean more responsibility for self-government, in accordance with the famous principle of proximity, which, as defined in the European Charter of Local autonomy, means that the powers must preferably belong to the authorities that are closest to the citizens. And since the powers themselves are empty letter, they will go hand in hand with ensuring more resources, more resources to respond to its expanded role. We have listened with satisfaction and optimism to the Deputy Minister speak of more than 5.5 billion euros intended for self-government through the "Antonis Tritsis" and the National Recovery Plan, a modern "Marshall", as he described it, which puts the municipalities and regions more strongly as part of the great national effort to recover our economy. Part of this reform will also be the reform of central independent resources, as well as the collection of HICPIA directly from the municipalities. Before and beyond these major changes, the New Democracy Government is constantly next to local government with regular and exceptional funding, so that municipalities can support households and local businesses, with new integrated projects in the "Antonis Tritsis" programme, as well as ensuring the funding of projects that had been integrated into earlier programmes. These were all seven projects in the three municipalities of Thesprotia of over 14 million euros approved ten months ago between the first thirty two projects of the "Antonis Tritsis" project throughout the country, projects that improve infrastructure, provide work and improve the quality of life of our fellow citizens. This is our approach, this is our plan for self-government, to give it the right tools - institutional, financial, technical and technological - to solve our hands and give it greater economic and administrative self-reliance. We are doing what the previous government has not been able or dared not to attempt. And we start today ending with experiments that hurt self-government and that have been paid by local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u135	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Mulkiotis Georgios from the Change Movement has the floor and then Mr. Yiannis Andrianos from New Democracy is prepared. Here, Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, local government is an institution and a foundation for democracy, because it is close to society, and the problems and needs of the citizens are disguised. Indeed, according to the principle of proximity, it has a specific purpose and should be able to develop into an economic and social development vehicle. Local government is along with Parliament and the trade union movement one of the three pillars of democracy. While local authorities in Europe are working on promoting knowledge, research and innovation, strengthening competitiveness, increasing labour market participation and combating poverty, in our country, Greece, Mr Mitsotakis' government is proposing the electoral system as if it were the major and most important. The government does not discuss reforms that focus on a new model of governance and the allocation of powers with self-government to meet both the needs of decentralisation and those of growth. Instead of precedenting the multi-proclaimed reform of responsibilities, unfortunately, 'Work the voyage'! It does not deal with the substance of the institutions and the prospect that the country can have if we strengthen local government. There is no development competence, no decentralisation of powers and resources. Ladies and gentlemen, the relationship between our party and local government is well known and the footprint is undeniable. All the major reforms that were permanent demands of the local conferences were permanently voted against by the Government of New Democracy. All these reforms are the work of PASOK. Since the beginning, PASOK has progressively and consistently moved on to important areas with the prefecture councils, with voluntary associations and operations of OTAs, with democratic planning and programming contracts, with self-regulatory resources, with the establishment of a prestigious judiciary. In time we gave life and breath to a faint institution. But we ourselves have lifted the burden of modernising local government and we are proud of our own projects. We have done two major areas, two major reforms: the KALIKARATIO, and then the 'KALIKARATI' which the PASOK introduced in 2020, but which, unfortunately, are against - and I would remind you - all the political forces. Then, on the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, we expressed our opposition to 'CLISTEN'. We fought him and deserved him, because we are the political force that stands firmly and firmly against the attempts to exploit the electoral systems to the same small-party benefits. According to Aristotle, political developments have only value when they prove they are inspired by political virtue. Today, therefore, the New Democracy Government is taking advantage of the distortions, dependencies and impasses of governance that the previous SYRIZA-ANEL conflict has consciously caused, but to pass to the other end. It is inspired by this coup d'état that has done everything in order, unfortunately, to highlight the minorities in the blackmailing regulators of political life, leading with the famous 43% in minority administrations. It is disrespectful to the body of local democracy by setting as a priority today not the optimal functioning of local societies, based on the popular verdict, but unfortunately small-party purposes. It introduces a series of interrelated provisions that all together serve one single goal, to make them stronger as supposedly powerful combinations and to put all kinds of obstacles and triples into the so-called "weak". The Changing Movement stands firmly against all kinds of attempt to exploit the electoral systems to the same micro-groups, unfortunately - and I repeat, micro-groups! - Benefits. The Change Movement believes in a self-government unmanageable and independent. That is why it is voting against the government's legislative proposal. We disagree clearly, because with the mayor's election from the first Sunday with any post being under 50% plus 1. We disagree with the reduction of elected representatives in municipal, Community and regional councils, with the excessive increase of candidates to 150%, with the other government handling the major issue of communities, which proved to be a fact that the government has neither plans nor knowledge, but has a precursor to break down what the former have voted out without knowing what it wants to build. We also disagree with the way in which municipal councillors are crusades, as defined in paragraph 2 of Article 22 of the bill, which distorts the representation of the municipalities, 'a window' sub-representation of specific areas of the municipality and in practice, unfortunately, the existence of electoral districts within the municipality is cancelled. Ladies and gentlemen, only a better and democratic local government will save local communities from the anxieties of the client state and maintenance state that never leave local structures and local communities free to develop. The institution of local government will function if there is an operational plan on how it will work, and now unfortunately it does not exist. The bill does not provide for decentralisation of resources, nor for decentralisation of powers. All it provides for is an electoral system. That's what the government is interested in to win the election. And then what about self-government? Nothing! However, we need a new, great and radical reform. That's what the place needs! To overthrow the present model, finally to overthrow it! To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this: Minister, in the "Laws" Plato has an excellent saying, where he says: "In any city the law is subjected to and cancelled by the rulers, I see the destruction of the city very quickly." Minister, unfortunately with this bill you are proposing, you do not aim for the institution of local government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u137	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Yiannis Andrianos has the floor and Mr Charalambos Mamoulakis is being prepared by SYRIZA. In order to organise the debate a little, after each parliamentary representative says when he will speak, at least three Members will be present, and then he will be given the floor. So, after Mr. Andrianos, Mr. Mamoulakis will speak and then the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Kostas Scandalidis. Here, Mr. Andriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today corrects the serious problems of the implementation of Law 4555/2018. Just as the New Democracy had at that time anticipated, the mere analogous implementation of the distribution of the seats of municipal and regional councils did not yield the positive results of the then majority invoked in terms of strengthening democracy, strengthening accountability and the provision of productive dialogue and composition. On the contrary, it has in many cases led to insolence, often put insurmountable obstacles to mayors and regional rulers in the exercise of the policy for which they were elected by the citizens and created conditions for an extension of the 'pask' problem, which often circumvents the real interests of local communities. So in the face of this uncertain reality with the draft law under discussion, it restores the rulership of the municipalities and regions, but also the response of the majority to the composition of local government bodies, as well as to the formulation and implementation of the relevant policy. The option of voting from the first round of 43%, the assurance of three fifths (3/5) of the board by the winning party, but also the reintroduction of the five-year term, which means, of course, that the citizen must be even more careful in his choices, are predictions that in practice support municipal and regional authorities. In addition, modernising the electoral process by exploiting the capabilities of the digital state removes unduly bureaucratic burdens that often act as obstacles and counteracts in the active involvement of citizens in the management of commons. Finally, streamlining the chassis and election framework are reforms that move in the right direction to save resources, to enhance the functionality of local government and to update the operating rules of the institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the practical reinforcement of local government is an orientation that must be found to us all in this Chamber, regardless of ideological origins. Real decentralisation gives voice and control to the citizens. It brings decisions that affect their daily lives closer to themselves and creates incentives for participation and enrichment of political action. It restores and strengthens confidence in democratic institutions. Real decentralisation enhances accountability and effectively cancels the unrealistic cries of populism and demagogicism. With this bill we are giving an answer to the real and serious problem of the governance of local government. Citizens must be sure that their vote is important, that their vote will elect municipal and regional authorities that have all the institutional and material conditions to implement the programme for which they have committed. At the same time, however, this absolutely necessary restoration and strengthening of citizens' confidence in democratic institutions as a whole is to ensure accountability, good management and efficiency at every level of the administration. We must therefore look at specific endemic and persistent pathogens that have been affecting the credibility and effectiveness of local government for decades and go beyond the scope of regulatory interventions in this bill. Healthy local government, the central state, the civil society, all of us, from its position and with the forces of everyone, must work together effectively in this field to strengthen the transparency, accountability and efficiency of every body of state and local government, and to make a decisive contribution to the closure of every port that some systematically exploit the citizens' prerogatives and against their will and interests. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today substantially strengthens the institutional framework of local government in our country. It solves existential and pressing problems, exploits best practices and capabilities of the digital state that, by command of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and overseeing the relevant ministers, creates day-to-day positive tangible results for the daily life of the citizen. It brings important decisions closer to local communities and the citizen. It is an important and necessary step towards a lasting effort to strengthen democracy, restore citizens' confidence in its institutions, strengthen the possibility of producing tangible positive results for everyone's daily lives. We must also consider the practical ways of dealing with the endemic problems that do not in many cases allow local authorities to make full use of these institutional possibilities. And that is an issue that goes beyond ideological starting points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Adriane, especially for keeping time. Mr. Charalambos Mamoulakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the present draft law of the Ministry of Interior on the new electoral system in the local government agencies continues its anti-democratic interventions in the municipalities and regions of our country initiated by Mr Theodorikos in August 2019. New Democracy had seen with great vigilance - almost opposition - the great reform of "KLITHENH" with the democratic areas that are introduced into local government, such as the representation of all voices, all views on municipal councils, the encouragement of the legislator to form convergences, areas of consensus - and between natural factions - the substantial upgrading of the community councils in their way of being elected and their responsibilities. Already since the end of 2019, the former Minister had left nothing standing in the way of the municipalities provided for by KLISTHENIS, of course beyond the electoral system itself. Today, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is practically completing its work by changing the electoral system and the operation of the municipalities and regions, and furthermore, firstly, in the direction of declining local government elections to the glorious role of mayor election with superpowers and, indeed, with little - I stress this - democratic representation. This draft law introduces the most undemocratic electoral system in Europe, with the elected mayor of 42% electing almost 60% of municipal councillors. The self-sufficiency of the electoral process in local communities is abolished, making the result locally dependent on the results of the combinations for the election of mayor. It creates exclusion in representation in local government bodies by excluding classes that receive less than 3%, by increasing the number of candidates and the obligation to present candidates to 80% of the communities. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the spirit of the legislator is clear and clear. Indeed, the bill is an integral part of an overall return of local government to a model of governance, that of the client-centred central government system. It is one of the many reasons why they also brought the country into bankruptcy ten years ago and in no way relates to New Democracy's priorities in the field of self-government, but rather to the central political planning of the ruling party. Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law raises, in my view, four questions and provides the New Democracy's corresponding answers to them. Asked first: Should elections in local government always be elections in parties that go down to municipality or regional level, or do we consider that local government has a relative autonomy and that local communities should follow their own paths to select their local leadership? The New Democracy's answer is that elections to local government are essentially national elections in a second order and that municipalities are the right ones to be controlled by the parties. The SYRIZA's answer - Progressive Alliance is that self-government is an institution that brings citizens close to politics, and that is why institutions must give citizens a variety of opportunities. Question 2: Does the simple analogue of municipalities lead to government? It is a question that has been put on the table and in the face of a maternity question by many colleagues in the Chamber. This is obviously the answer of Mr Voridis and Mr Petsa present, but in reality no municipality has operated on the basis of the results of the mere analogy resulting from the previous elections. The New Democracy could have allowed the institution to function for a few years and then, on the basis of the problems, to proceed to legislative improvements in view of the substantial optimisation of the current situation and good legalisation. Of course he didn't. However, it was such a fear that the overwhelming mayors would be removed from the central line through the alliances they should form, which made sure that no single budget from a proportionally elected municipal council would pass. Therefore, the simple analogue does not lead to insolence, but to party evacuation and perforation and bending of party fortresses in local communities. Question 3: Is the implementation of the simple analogue source of dark trade, as the Minister claims with his well-known inter-war style? The answer here too - and I am not talking about you, Mr Pechas - is exactly the opposite. A source of dark trade is the inability of the opposition to control the elected authority. A source of dark trade is the unlimited freedom granted by the New Democracy to elected mayors to carry out projects and competitions through their development companies and competitions, circumventing European public procurement law and public competitions. After all, if that were the case, then perhaps the Ministers - Europeans otherwise - would have to respond to us because, throughout Europe, electoral systems are dealing with cooperation as something positive, as a mechanism to monitor the arbitrary nature of the local authorities. Finally, a fourth question is: why does the New Democracy choose, while we all assemble to have a strong influence on local government, to shield the local government from excessive democracy? The answer to this question is, unfortunately, very watery and petty, as is its inspiration. The reform of the "CLITHENI", the merits of the absorption and implementation of the previous NSRP, as well as the huge part of the "Philodimos" programme, have shaped the conditions and cracks so that the project shaped by the leading core of the New Democracy has a problem, i.e. the plan to create a health policy area around SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance at all levels of power. This extreme, as well as its inspiring in the Chamber today, idea that democracy can withstand the persecution of our political opponents by the institutions, I think it has failed, because in the period 2015-2019 the government coming has maintained functional relations with all the actors of local government - and having my earlier status as self-government, I can confirm it once again, like our rapporteur, Mr Hatzigiannakis - inclusive, without unregulated and informal certificates of social opinion. The government of Mr Mitsotakis today is trying to raise these walls of Civilian Opposition by the institutions of self-government. To do that, he's trying to leave the whole society out. If we are the waters that Mr Vorides wants to fly out, unfortunately today he also flew the baby of the wide participation of local communities in local government and democratic processes. And as for the carrot as the mayors consent, it gives the elected mayors superpowers, easy re-election and a wall of opacity in managing local government funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u141	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kostas Scandalidis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Change Movement, and then Mr Savvas Snowides will speak from the New Democracy. Mr. Scandalidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to begin by allowing me an exception. I was also given the floor by the former President of Parliament this morning. These days Greece has been celebrating forty years since its entry into the European Community. She celebrates them with articles, with interviews from Europeans, with her leaders, with all on stage and with the insult made by the Prime Minister at the official dinner to speak for a period of time as catastrophic, choosing to stand out, but as a rule with an anthems to the founder of the New Democracy, which, in fact, led the country to the EEC at that time with his right and basic political decision. Because I was missing, I would like to say two words to remember, for those who have a selective memory and for those who try to rewrite the story. In 1981, immediately after the rise of PASOK to the government, the Government of Change expressed a memorandum in which the EEC substantially changed the conditions for association and membership of the country in its common interest. Later on with the veto and the Mediterranean Integrated Programmes, the issue of convergence of levels of development was introduced for the first time, which finally led to the Community support frameworks which greatly increased the country's revenue and resources pie to become the major projects leading to Greece in the 1990s. The 1994 convergence programme which, after two failures by the government of the old Mitsotakis in New Democracy, did so by Andreas Papandreou in June 1994 and was implemented in an accurate manner by the government of Costas Simitis, led to the euro and EMU. If we complement Helsinki and the accession of Cyprus, this is the real relationship between Greece and the European Union. The country's European orientation was completed solely by initiatives and the responsibility and boldness of the PASOK governments. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] And I must remind you that in her autobiography Margaret Thatcher wrote only one sentence: "Andreas? He is the only Prime Minister who left the Council every time he took something for Greece.” And instead of becoming our guide, studying our story again, we are celebrating and forgetting. Memory helps a nation to move forward. This decline is also within our theme because this great faction of institutional change in the municipalities, the first wave of decentralisation in the 1980s, with the regional administrative formation of the country in the late 1980s, with the first election in the history of the prefecture's place as secondary government in the early 1990s, with the "KAPETISTIA" and "KALIKRATIT" and all of them having been aroused in real self-government, literally through waves of changes and reforms, in parallel to the changes in the administration, with the return of JEPs to the municipalities, which made the institutions of selfgovernment in the regions and municipalities strong people' power fortress and especially development. Ladies and gentlemen, today we come to compare the law of SYRIZA and the current state of the New Democracy. What do I get? I deeply realised that the negative attitude, the position, the rejection and the deletion of the Kappistrey and the 'CALIKARAT' at that time was not an opportunityal option. It was their deep conviction that local government is either the continuation of state and power or the continuation of the party, that they had deeply despised the institution, that the institutional reconstruction of democracy by decentralisation and self-government is not another necessary leap in institutional reform, but another pretext for party exploitation. It is a pity, because ten years have passed since then and an undeniable need to go to Europe of the regions and cities alongside Greece of the regions with a name and identity and the powerful municipalities are also going to stay in the path of history. You want today, gentlemen of the New Democracy, to clear up the landscape of the elections to 1-1-2024 and the five-year term of an institution that is urgent for critical changes in its structure and function, for brave decisions that will strengthen its threefold role as a primary body of power, as a key development institution, as a supporter and shaper of the daily life of the citizen, an institution - a pillar of a decentralised, modern and democratic state, an institution that has long needed a new and brave wave of change and reforms to perform its crucial role. The natural time of any reform, for which you are concerned that it serves almost every bill of yours, is first the changes in structures and functions and then the electoral system that serves them, so that the debate can make sense and that there are consents that deprive the institution and do not weaken it. I am trying to understand your prerogative to propose the early safeguarding of the change of electoral procedures so many years ago and you did not open up a debate on what the Prime Minister said at least before the elections, on how the property tax will go to the municipalities, on how self-government will arm themselves with new responsibilities, on how these responsibilities will be shared, on how the institution will take its new form, on how it will now take part in the Reconstruction Fund. Is anyone talking about self-government in relation to the Reconstruction Fund? Will the billions that the country will have at its disposal go through the hands of the municipalities not just as mayor's or local authorities' requests to meet party objectives, but as an integrated regional development programme or an integrated municipal programme with local decision-making on the ground about the development and creation priorities of the country? Ladies and gentlemen, firstly you propose the electoral system from the outstanding important institutions: decentralisation of resources, strengthening of the institution at the critical juncture of the pandemic, how this aid is made, playing a more proactive role than the one that plays - today no part at all - to respond to its social role as the most important competence for which we are all cutting everything that it has. I don't see them anywhere. So, what multi-level governance? It looks like "flying feathers", "flying words" looks like me. We took the lead in the fight against the unthinkable and solvent 'CLISTEN'. We were right in practice. We have lived in a prefecture of transaction, dismantling of the OTAs, in power, where the groups lose their power and become intact in the hands of the personal pursuits of mayors, candidate mayors, municipal councillors, etc. You have been consistent with the micro-party and mystical logic. The common account of the New Democracy and SYRIZA that the simple analogue is abolished, where the New Democracy considers it to be a dissolution, and SYRIZA considers it to be a motto in democracy, is a waste. A disastrous institutional mixing and alteration of different electoral systems per elected institution of local government is being abolished. In order not only to look at one side of the coin, we must admit that the OTAs have not already defended the institution, unfortunately, and its real needs in the face of its central power and its intentions each time. Many people in government saw it as an opportunity for their selfish pursuits, party or personal. The government with exactly the same goals exploits the dissolution caused by SYRIZA to lead things to the intersectional opposite end. Lead with your proposal not only to 43%, but also to the other provisions you bring, to restore and strengthen the dominance-centre system to such an extent that it is posed by the backward major problem of democracy in the functioning of the institution. With SYRIZA, SYRIZA highlights minorities to extortionist regulators. Today's law leads to minority administrations. In both cases, there is a rape of democracy, in the grace of governmentality and efficiency, in the so-called representativeness. On both sides, it is the intention of the party and the lack of respect for the progress and development of the institution. Ladies and gentlemen, why say no to 43%? If the objective is to make decisions as close as possible to the citizen as possible on the basis of the principle of proximity, the mayor must have increased responsibilities, increased competence to intervene in the management of everyday problems and have democratic legitimacy for him. The second round and 50 plus 1 are arming him with this democratic legitimacy. 43% we fought it the first time. He is a mayor of a minority who is an executive body. The mayor is not a representative institution. It is the executive body of local authority and has increased competence in this. The increased responsibilities of the mayor must be clearly defined and, at the same time, the role and participation in decisions and control of collective municipal bodies should be upgraded. That would be a right balance. Our firm position was the introduction of parliamentary-type rules to the functioning of the regional and municipal councils, the safeguarding of factions and not their weakening. Powerful mayor, executive institution with responsibility and responsibility, with responsibility for the daily life of the citizen, but also with responsibility for the application of the authority conferred on him by the state, with responsibility for civil and criminal matters, not to see the mayor coming out on the eve of elections and tell the shops "we give you the taxes, the fees from the seats and everything else" to take elections again, making substantial illegal. Therefore, the safeguarding of the fact that they are granted and not their weakening by a strong council and committees, with a development programme and control role. How's your bill? Altogether it makes a district manager or mayor of reduced legitimacy a powerful power pole. It's obvious not to us, and it's huge. I will not go into detail on the obvious, because I do not have time to contradict the number of candidates and the number of consultants, the increase in offenders, the rave - was going out in municipal communities. All this has been analysed by Mrs Liikanouli and the other Members from our resignation very thoroughly. A characteristic example of your inconsistencies is the case of municipal communities. Instead of starting from the municipal authority's institutional obligation to decentralise responsibilities and resources so that the local councils, the president can be able to deal with the daily problems of citizens, go to the opposite time, at risk of being isolated from the municipal authority or becoming disgraceful. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a set of principles which should govern such a great reform. For decisions, the principle of closeness to the citizen. The closer to the citizen the decision, the better. For the distribution of development responsibilities, the subsidiarity of the institutions. For the management of responsibilities, the proportionality of responsibilities. For the entity of the municipalities, their economic self-reliance and their administrative autonomy. Of course, by serving the modern charter of local autonomy, the European Charter, to have the same development as the Europe of cities and regions. That would be a real change in depth. In this field, therefore, in the model of governance, the field of institutions and reforms, the real identities of the orders are tested and not the authors of the series and the line every day that are directed towards specific directions. In this field it can essentially be tested what is conservative and what is progressive, what is management and what is reformative, what maintains a stagnation with trenches of trenches and what leads things forward, what brings insightful powers and makes citizens responsible and vulnerable individuals and what decentralises decisions, responsibilities and resources in a brave decentralisation of governance, to make them partakers and active. In this area, ladies and gentlemen, we are establishing our presence, our strategy, our identity and our vision and balance sheet. Where's he going? The people will listen to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Mr Snowides from New Democracy has the floor and immediately after Mr. Dionyssioupes. Mr. Delis will talk tomorrow. Here, Mr Snowides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to welcome, since I have had the luck of being here, the Ambassador of the Japanese friend country, accompanied by the President and his escorts. Welcome, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Ambassador, welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, I was sad when I heard the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Manolakou say "remove the simple analogue". What a simple analogue. The simple and inappropriate analogue? What was in place is a bad mutation of mere analogy, a patent which, in the opinion of the then-faithful people - I am not saying in total - of the SYRIZA to be able to impose these conditions, in the view that they would temporarily have an interest. The mere analogy with that law was effectively denounced, but the logic behind the Communist Party and other powers for simple and inappropriate proportions was also deprived, because it was a fraudulent proportion, depending on their interests at the time. Of course, it's better to have reasonable opponents than intrusive partners. I am referring to Poulakis, then Secretary-General. Skourlets followed. Fortunately, Mr. Haritsis, a reasonable man, understood, but did not cause him to change the party connections. So this mutation cannot be called ‘simply proportional’. Please delete. This is a distorted analogue, paradox. Three electoral systems to bring local communities out, to make mayor or to take out municipal councillors. We therefore have this phenomenon. I had said in a speech that the Amarousi Hunting Association could certainly have been elected to the municipal council with seven hundred fifty, i.e. whether an election combination was coming in. So we come today to vote for the law and, indeed, it's nothing secret. This is our commitment. We did not hide, when the Greek people voted to us, that we would go into a strengthened analogue system. It's something we had a bronze on. Of course, it is a system of purely enhanced analogy. It is not a "monkey" reinforced analogue. So it comes out with 43%. Indeed, the idea would be to be 50% plus 1. I said that to the committee. From that point on, though, come tell me, my friend, Dimitris Jiaustas at Domokos, with 49.95%, with what processes he managed to lose the second round. Tell me about Labakis in Alexandroupolis and many others from Alexandroupolis to Sparta. That was the target? If that were to be the goal, to dismantle self-government, to give the local communities people who would allegedly get 700 euros in wages, so that we could create rifts - I'm not saying it was - you did it. It's a pity from God to spoil something that works and deserves, like self-government. It's a pity to have deepened the concept of mere analogy, to abuse it. As far as the issue of municipal councils is concerned, I am pleased to see the understanding on the part of the ministers after the interactive debate and with the bodies, but also with us, that the municipal councils should be increased to a percentage, like the regional councils, because it does not actually have a budgetary burden and I think that representation is better. I have also called, Minister, for the villages and distances to be able to establish - and perhaps this law - the remote monitoring and vote on municipal and local councils so that the whole world can watch. Because many times in the municipal councils - there are Panayota, a colleague of the mayor, who knows - many could not come from the villages of Livada to attend the municipal council. With regard to the part, because first 43% of the vote, and then the changes to which I refer below, it is very simple: it clears the landscape for the civilian staff to know, which will probably be of interest two years before the elections, that this system is going and not two or three months. If people really say that they love self-government, we must immediately put the law on the next elections with two or more Members to vote on what is happening in Parliament, which has universal sketch and common features, against each government changing the law of self-government. Are we ready to do this? So let's do it now. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have not heard from Mr Scandalidis, and I have very much appreciated it - to refer to what self-government needs. Because it's not just 43% or 50%. It's the transfer of responsibilities. Of the eighteen and a half thousand responsibilities of the wider Greek state, the powers of self-government are close to six hundred. Shouldn't the local administration take over further responsibilities? They're coming. The percentage of participation in local government's GDP - where we all say 'yes' and go on to projects and proved to the NSRF that it is doing well - should not be close to Europe's average, which is 13.5%, while Greece is close to 3%? So here's one objective we can have to go to 8%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, in thirty seconds' time I shall end. Should we not see the self-supply of the municipalities? It is a matter that we need to see and let them say that they are going to privatise or do. Because I have heard the pride of nine and a half thousands of employees who have been involved in cleansing illegally and who have still been troubled by those workers who have been taken back to eight months with the courts. I had reminded Mr Skourleti, as a member of the board and of the CEDEFOP delegation. Anyway, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us put on what the PASOK Parliamentary spokesman has said, but also on other colleagues in Parliament, to implement the green transition and the digital transition, to give exactly a green sauce directly to the municipalities and regions, in order to allow the rest of the state policy to be implemented. It will again be under the supervision of all the control mechanisms. So, self-government we love her. It's good to see the law two years earlier. It is a very good thing that this whole case is on the way, and, above all, it was a pre-election commitment of the New Democracy. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and all of us must unreservedly keep what we promised and that is what we are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Dionysoupis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill, the New Democracy Government is once again implementing an explicit election commitment. With the new grid of provisions introduced by the new electoral law, we are moving towards a deepening of the functioning of local authorities, with the aim of increasing transparency in improving functionality and, of course, ensuring the best service of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that the implementation of the mere analogous - the allegedly - created more obstacles to local governance than was supposed to be resolved. It is no accident that largely deprives the ability to exercise effective administration, since it makes it impossible for elected mayors and regional managers to de facto exercise the policy for which they were voted on by the electorate. The new draft law which we are introducing therefore brings a coordinate and effective solution to this problem. In simple terms, the government seeks to resolve the hands of elected local administrations so that they can implement the work for which the Greek society has chosen them by voting. More specifically, as far as SYRIZA's previous law is concerned, one thing is certain that, if we did not win the elections in July 2019 and did not make an amendment to that law, the municipalities could not function. In your policy, you have led them with mathematical accuracy to the destruction and, by extension, to the destruction of local societies. One wonders: Why did you choose the simple analogue - the so-called system in local government? What could you not resolve with the previous system of enhanced analogy? The problem was the electoral system or its strengthening with resources to serve competences, and possibly we must transfer more powers? I will tell you that a convincing answer will not be able to give. Why did you do it? Because, simply, the votes were not in order for your chosen ones to be able to participate in the municipal councils and you preferred to destroy local government in order to achieve your micro-political goals. The results of this are well-known and well-known. We have seen municipalities lose money from projects, mayors forced to implement the technical programmes of counter-population, while in many municipal councils there is a war climate, as the majority of consultants are against the elected mayor. It is no coincidence that in most municipalities in the country the elected mayor has a minority of municipal councillors as a result of the implementation of the mere proportional system adopted by SYRIZA in the last elections. I will give you the example of the Municipality of Zakynthos. Nine different orders. Really, how would the municipality vote if we didn't make the amendments, did you think about it? Technical programme for the projects that local society needs, how could it be voted on with seven mayor's advisers in a total of thirty three municipal councillors? Do you really have many examples of municipalities where the parties enter the municipal council meeting embraced and end up after a quiet debate and agree on everything and make unanimous decisions? In order to legislate with that logic you should have in mind many of these municipalities, it cannot be explained otherwise. Of course you didn't do the same when you took over the country's rule? Didn't you miss driving the country to the disaster with your overseers? Of course, if this party wasn't here to put back on for once, you'd have made it. Prove daily with your practices that you are dangerous to the country. In order to secure the chair of power you are capable of the worst. You are disturbed by the efforts of this government to return to normality, because you have learned to survive only in circumstances of crisis and uncertainty. After all, aren't you the one who ruled with the strengthened analogue country? And you found it fine then as a system, it didn't bother you at all. But when you understood that you would lose power, you thought it was good to bring authority to local government, to the country, everywhere, by voting on the allegedly simple analogue. The main changes to the draft law are the five-year term of office, 43% plus 1, and 3% of the right to elect the municipal regional council has been said. Don't repeat it for time. Ladies and gentlemen, the new law we have in our hands implements the Constitution's requirements in a substantial and fully functional manner, which stipulates that self-government has serious powers to improve the daily lives of its citizens. In this context, the Government has demonstrated its practical support for local government. I note here that with EUR 187 million last year the municipalities were strengthened, while EUR 50 million was financed only in the previous months. At the same time, however, with the bill we have in our hands, the government equips self-government with all the necessary tools, so that the funds can be absorbed and used immediately for the benefit of local communities. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has shown that, regardless of the criticality of the moments we are all experiencing because of the pandemic, it has been unsuccessful since the first moment that the steering wheel of our country has taken over, innovative policies for which it had been committed in the run-up to elections. After all, our strategic direction is clear and clear: we want a local government that is always in cooperation with the central government will be able to implement important decisions for the overall improvement of the quality of life of Greek citizens. We as a party and as a government will try to restore normality to this place's life. It is a good thing that you, too, should try to become normal and I hope you do not remain a political party unspecified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, too, Mr. Cape. The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr Angeliki Adamopoulou will speak immediately afterwards from SYRIZA, then from New Democracy Gikas Stefanos, and immediately thereafter from the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Karathanasopoulos, since he is here, of course. Mrs Adamopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin my position on the bill, I must point out and remind you that as of 1 June the Finance Code adopted in October 2020, which effectively abolishes the status of first home protection, in a country which, not only has come together but will be too late to recover from the heavy injuries caused by the ten-year financial crisis and which has also been deeply affected by the pandemic. So the application of this law, the bankruptcy code, is now coming. With fast track procedures and really opaque electronic platforms, it will gradually begin to speed up the transfer of private property from the debtor to the predators and all, because the government has not chosen to face up to the unreasonable private debt of EUR 250 billion with deletion and debt haircuts, as we have been calling for so long, and in the midst of a situation that has made the Greek citizen even worse. At the same time - I am going to another issue of topicality - and while organised crime is holding, blossoming and gangs have literally perpetuated, we see the government not dealing with such a major issue, but putting the law on university police into practice, deafing against the massive and dynamic reactions of the student movement, youth, and even social outcry. It is therefore coming to impose even more on its authoritarian face, along with commercialisation, the privatization of education, together with the abolition of schools, school departments and the closure of schools, as well as the suppression of institutions. I'm coming to the bill now. We see that this is the third in the series of legislation on how to show the elected representatives, in this case in local government. Following the change in the regulatory framework for the national elections and after the vote on the results, it tables an amendment of a bill, which it had already tabled after its election, and is of course a matter of local self-government. In fact, we would say that this bill had a strong perfume of Thessaloniki and I say this because when in the previous self-government elections New Democracy was particularly disturbed by the defeat of its candidacy candidate in Thessaloniki, who lost some of its current mayor, according to the news reports, they had come out furious and had discounted the change, the change in the way the elected representatives were represented, that is, the change we are seeing at the moment. Of course, the loser in the race then did not complain, because the New Democracy took care of him as president at the "ATTIC MEETRO". This is how the New Democracy knows how to build its CVs, and that is the way in which it understands the sovereignty in any case. Before I move on to analysis of the bill, we need to see the elephant in the room and what do I mean by that? That the obsession with the government, not only with the government but also with the governments in question, has literally reached the limits of the strife - it concerns all of us - must save and well change the law, whether for the national elections or for the local government. That is, every time they go up to power, they must save and well change this law, because they see taboo as having stability in these processes. We are also listening to and we are tired of hearing as an argument the best practices you are invoking and which are allegedly being implemented in the advanced European states. There is a huge hypocrisy here, because these good methods are invoked whenever it is literally in your interest, and you are in fact decorate them with inaccurateness only to support your account, and what we cannot in any case doubt is that no serious European state, any serious advanced state, makes such frequent changes to the electoral law, the law on which the elected representatives of the people are being shown. On the contrary, if we want to look at what methods they are using, what practices the advanced European states are, we will see that, on such serious issues as what they are doing, they are first of all to ensure with wide participation and consensus, by recommending some groups and first of all what they want to investigate are the principles that they want to serve electoral law and with which priority. So since they have come to that, that is to say, the objective they want to achieve, they are looking for to what extent they can achieve this with the tools they have, with the available tools. From there on, then, a scientific technical process begins, where they are investigating, comparing, gathering their comments and studies, reaching some conclusions, and all this is finally being done to see what is the best, best, best, most necessary solution to which they should end up, the best system at all, in any case, only to choose the solution that will ultimately be for the common good. So that's not something unrealistic, it's not quantum physics, it's a classic scientific method of solving problems, which has been known for centuries. So this should be taken seriously into account in your approach to a situation rather than coming here and invoking vague concepts, such as governance, a concept really, a neology, which you work on, you use and you interpret according to beam and arbitrary and you have made it literally rubber. So throw him out of this neologic, give him the meaning that suits you, and then rulership makes it dogma. What we are proposing is that you should call on all parties, call on social groups, groups of citizens, call on scientific bodies and then call on a group of experts, a group of wise men - even so many times in the case of other bills - and with a broad consensus that this group will be able to reach some tangible conclusions. It will be a qualitative, but also a responsible working group. It will not take more than three to four years as a working party to reach a conclusion, which will be in line with the country's specificities, but also with the European Charter of Local Autonomousity. Financing can also be provided by the European Union, but also by the state budget - it is not difficult - it is enough for the government to give up the direct assignments that are literally orchestrating, as is, for example, Mrs Nicholas's contracted overheads. But what is the real reason behind this bill? The European Union, as you know, is going to channel our country with 'hot' money - and not just the country, all the Member States - to deal with the economic downturn caused by pandemic and even caused by pandemic. Despite the fact that the New Democracy says there are no money trees, it will finally try and tell us that the money trees found them, it's kind of like the Delore packages. But, to be done with this lie, this money will obviously not be given to us. This is a fifth tough memorandum, which will provide for tough repayment terms and whether it is borrowers or not, which are borrowers, what you are interested in is who will then be called to manage the distribution of the pie. So it is all the work of the case that the New Democracy will be able to ensure, by all levels of power, either the central administration or the local government, that it will be possible to prevent the scenery being overturned, that is, not to put its own blue executives and not to lose the honey from the dirt. So you don't care about any practicability. This is just to stir up in the state media. Your strategic goal is just to continue to get involved in the privileges. Nor do you care about the party neutral state. Let me say some specific provisions of the bill, what the bill provides for. First of all, it provides for a reduction in the rate of the mayor's and regional election from 50% plus 1 to 43% plus 1. So, what's the Department doing here? It comes essentially and imposes reasonable on national, parliamentary elections, it equates disparate situations literally just to impose the logic of polarisation, bonus, chairs and partyisation. And not only does it, but it increases its term of office from four to five years of a literally weakened mayor or district mayor and ensures all three fifths of municipal councillors. In other words, it further strengthens the concentration of power. But what translates this 43%? Whoever gets 43% in the first round then takes 60% of the seats. This is certain that you have not copied from nowhere, it is certain that it is a patent "made in Maximou Megaron" and that because in Europe as long as it moves more on simple and unadulterated analogy, you are more and more removed from this logic and you want to impose corrupt parataxic logics. And, frankly, the question which arises is: why should governance be incompatible, should it be considered inconsistent with simple proportionality when your own practice is disproved? So the only logical conclusion to which we come is that you believe that a great deal of democracy is injuring. In other words, you do not want, within the municipal councils, to have pluralism, you do not want small movements to take part, small groups, which put forward their proposals, to testify to their experience. And, of course, we did not see you taking any legislative initiative to address the major issues of the municipalities, such as water problems, the road network, infrastructure, cleanliness, in general no initiative to tackle the problems. Thirdly, you apply the 3% cap for entering the municipal councils. In other words, here you could condensate in an article that is essentially said by Law 4654/2020 on the election of Members, that is to say, to retransmit the logic of this law to the logic of local government. And the question is: Why, after all, while you are a supposed historical party, is diversity so frightened of you? What are you afraid of? Why are you afraid of pluralism? Why are you afraid of pluralism and so desire to be imposed on the rest? And I'm ending with the smaller and supposedly flexible municipal and regional councils: here again we see that you want to impose a reasonable staining that you are supposed to want to save 2.1 million. In fact, this is a funny argument, because these 2 million are strangles for New Democracy when within two or three days this money has been shared by direct awards. I should like to mention Mr Bakoyannis's 2 million on the long walk, which in the end proved to be a project that was never used because it was implemented during the first hard lockdown that no one could walk. We need to talk again about the direct assignment party. We need to talk about the known channel money lists. And all of a sudden, the prudent management of public money has bleaked you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u151	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u152	Either we take seriously what you say that long-time discussions and meetings tire of counsellors - as your own Mr. Viron Polydoras once said - 'Do they not do a penalty'? - or were they placed, appointed, put in there, in any case, to sit there? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Adamopoulou. Mrs. Panayiou Pulou from SYRIZA to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are considering today is crucial not only for self-government, but for the operation of the institutions in our country in general. With its provisions, the attack launched by the Mitsotakis Government against the democratic functioning of the municipalities and regions since the first months of its election is culminating. Self-government expects you, gentlemen of the government, in the context of the so-called reform of your State of Staff, as you have announced for two years, decentralisation, responsibilities and resources. What are you doing two years later? Absolutely nothing. You have even demanded your own committee of Contiadis so that the division of responsibilities is never completed. Because you want to maintain party control at OTAs, their dependence on your ministers, customer relations and ultimately its manipulation. You want the mayor'manager', who privatise by economic committees and direct awards to other sectors of self-government, public spaces, cleanliness, green lighting, which for us must remain in public control. Mayor of Athenians points the way. You have turned the European Charter of Local Autonomousity into a rag, which gives the first chair to the elected municipal councils. On the pretext of governmentality you have created false, planted majorities of mayors and regional authorities in the economic committees and granted them powers by abolishing the decisions of the elected collective bodies. And you didn't stop there. The design of you even included the well-being of responsibilities by local communities. Of course, the credit for these options belongs to Mr Theodorikos. Yet you, his successors, do not stay with crucifixed hands. You are stalking an obsolete, anti-democratic, over-democratic electoral system that reflects your oligarchic concept of self-government, as a field suitable for authoritarianism, centralism, opacity, manipulation, micropolitical transaction. At the same time as the vast majority of European countries are adopting proportional systems in the self-government elections, you are turning our country into a 'black sheep'. I will table in Minutes a detailed table of the systems for the election of mayors and municipal councils in the European countries which prove this to be abstract. Of course, you will again legislate without genuine consultation with the institutions and society, since many proposals from the Ottawa associations, the CEDEFOP and the EIA have not been accepted, perhaps because you are politically controlling them and consider them to be given data anyway. You return to the majority system because the analogy of "CLOSED I" is supposed to lead to insolence. Do you have any specific evidence to prove it? Because our evidence proves that in the majority of the municipalities where the mayors sought consents and shocks, no problems of governance were observed. But in cases where mayors treat themselves as a local satrape, today, but not only today but also over time, there have been such malfunctions. For this reason, I will also present in the minutes the list of decisions of the municipal council of the Municipality of Levande in the previous period and in the current period, where I will prove what I said before. Your chariot, gentlemen of the government, is falling apart. You intend to sacrifice the democratic functioning of the institutions in the name of supposedly efficiency. Because it is outside your political culture that dialogue, consensus, collective decisions and that is why you did not allow "CLOSED I" to function and prove its advantages. Because your aim is also to perpetuate the political sovereignty of the New Democracy and to self-government, as is provided for by the Voridis doctrine. Ladies and gentlemen, the very product of this political concept of the government is also this bill. How else can it be explained that the election of the mayor and the district mayor with 43% of the votes and with 60% of the seats, i.e. without the legitimisation of '50% plus 1'? Wouldn't the same be true of '50% plus 1'? Thus, the government creates mayors and districts who do not have the majority of the popular vote, the popular declared. It distorts the principle of majority voting and the principle of equality of vote. The vote in favour of the candidate who takes 43% and takes the bonus is much more burdened than the vote in favour of the other candidates. It concerns the principle of equality of vote by violating a fundamental constitutional principle. He even claims that the bonus is valid in the parliamentary elections, so that the party close to self-reliance can form a government without entering into the micro-political trade process. However, it is deliberately clear that the latter are not provided for in a second round. Minister, your party goal is to highlight or maintain the mayor and districts with an artificial majority through the bonus, but it does not give them legalisation, since it does not reflect their true electoral resonance in society. Therefore, your logic is clearly confusing and clearly undemocratic. But it seems that scandalous, insulting democracy 43% is not enough for you. You accompany it by further arrangements that lead minorities to the political margin, with the mandatory 3% threshold for entry into the Council, by reducing the number of consultants by around 20%, by increasing the potential number of candidates to 150% of seats, but also by requiring them to include candidates to 80% of municipal communities. Your target is clear. You are trying to perpetuate the active mayors who are members of the New Democracy, since only they could compile such large combinations, eliminate their competitors and all the small combinations and generally undermine representative representation in self-government. In this, unfortunately, you have an ally today's CEDEFOP leadership. You forget, of course, that this choice can turn bomerangs and lead to aggregation of other factions and social groups against the powerful leaderships you seek to impose on the municipalities. However, you are making the greatest effort to break down the upgraded role of the local communities introduced by "KLITHENIS". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a moment, please. With the abolition of the separate polls and the municipal communities of single ballots and the limitation of the number of local consultants by 80%, communities are transformed from democracy cells to components of the powerful mayor. Of course, your revolts don't end. After a storm of reactions you have not dared to impose as president of a community of up to three hundred inhabitants the candidate for the majority combination, but you have had to accept the one who has received most cross-references regardless of combination. In this "take all" game supported by today's CEDEFOP, which correctly counts the beans, mayors will have some losses. Today we have also seen that you have again changed and made it difficult to elect the Presidents. The conversion of community advisers to the mayor's parade, the division of local societies into coastal camps, the transfer of the powers of community councils to the central offices of the municipalities have a major impact on the operation of the municipalities. Because that is how you despise the institutional functions in the region, degrade the quality of life of the people in our villages, remove them from participation in commons and strengthen their sense of alienation and abundant distance from decision-making centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u155	All right, Mrs. Pulou, you've been in nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u156	Listen to the voice of the community network, the people who are struggling for the development of their villages and withdraw the destructive provisions. Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u157	You've been to nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u158	I'm done. Excuse me, Mr President, and thank you. For the first time, after the extreme majority systems of the post-war period and the dark break of the seven-year period with the appointed mayors, your bill overturns the democratic conquests of Post-Culture. His overthrow is a democratic debt for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u159	Thank you. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Stefanos Gikas, will now be given the floor and will be followed by the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos. Here, Mr. Gika, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking the Greek Government and the Ministry of Health and Civil Protection, because from yesterday in my constituency, Corfu, a model of mega vaccination centre operates, implementing the Prime Minister's decision until the end of this month that the whole population has been vaccinated. And especially for tourist islands like Corfu, you understand the importance of this decision. I'm coming to this bill. I think it is the Greek people's belief that in 2018 SYRIZA realized that he had lost the battle on all fronts and on the central, but also on local government, he tried with the so-called simply analogue to overthrow a situation that had clearly been inspired. Who was that? That whatever he did would lose the battle at all levels, just as it took a year later. Did the simple analogy of Law 4555 work? Of course it didn't work. And we don't say it, if you like, the MPs. It is the CEDEFOP's responsibility that says so. There was non-governmentality. A municipality could not actually govern and implement its election programme for which it was elected. So what does this government come to do? It comes to build this blurred landscape of the so-called mere analogy and bring about a law that enables municipalities and regions to rule properly. It does so because, among other things, during this period, there are huge financial instruments which the municipalities will be invited to make. We are talking about the Recovery Fund, we are talking about a multibillion euro movement. We have heard from the relevant ministers talk about 57 billion people who, in one form or another, will fall into the country and major projects will be made, much of whom will be called upon to manage the regions and municipalities. Over five and a half billion. So I say a municipality or region, when it cannot govern its municipality or region, when there is no so-called governmentality, how will it use all these resources for the benefit of the citizens? So this law brought by the government corrects too many things. I will stand on two or three, which I consider critical. One is, of course, that a combination can now be elected from the first round when it has more than 43% of the votes. It is right because it is democratic in the majority of the combinations and even at that level to be able to govern its municipality or its region. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Secondly, in order to enter a municipal council or the district, in other words to elect a combination, it should gather over 3% of the votes. This, you know, upgrades the municipal and regional councils. The combinations that go in now will have an important legal basis will have a voice which will be heard, and the combinations that simply entered the election process will not be an opportunity to have a municipal council or a regional consultant. So this second element is very important. The third is the possibility for the first combination to have the 3/5 of regional or municipal councillors. This ensures that the municipality or the region is properly governed. In the short time that I have left, I would like to raise an amendment, which I have tabled, Minister, and which is currently being assessed. We are talking about island regions, such as the regional unit of Corfu, which has various islands. One of them is the Paxes. The Paxos are an island that has about two and a half thousand inhabitants. We have therefore submitted the proposal for a long time, but it is now in a form of an amendment and I repeat it in your mind. On the regional council where the majority elect a combination of thirteen regional councillors, one of them comes with a quota from the island of Paxos. I think it is democratic, representative and fair. Besides, the remote islands and the island of Paxos have so many problems. The way in which the amendment was tabled relates essentially to the regional unity of Corfu, the island of Paxos and the regional unity of Rhodes, the island of Symi. I'd like you to see this happen again. I understand that there are some difficulties, but it is a request which has been demanded for ten years now - because it has already been possible - to bring it back and bring it back again. I think we may now have the possibility, perhaps, of realizing it. In short, I say that it is a serious bill, a bill that gives perspective, which gives governance to the municipalities and regions that look at the future. In any case, we will manage all this money and the programmes, and of course we are voting in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Madam President. The first of the month today, and the people are counting on new suffering, which will result from the validity of the new bankruptcy code, a new bankruptcy code, which has certainly not been a lightning inhabitation, but has been followed by all previous legislative initiatives by governments and by SYRIZA to phase out the protection of the first home, to manage red loans from the predators, as SYRIZA then called them, the funds, to convert to the specifics of the offence to prevent auctions from the people. With the new Banking Code, of course, the auctions at the expense of highly indebted people's households, self-employed professionals and poor medium-sized farms are being accelerated. The JRC stresses that it will make every effort to ensure that no auction for debts to the banks and the public at the expense of the people's classes, for the protection of dwellings covering the housing needs of a people's family, with bank cuts, tax, but also the insurance funds of the self-employed, as was the proposal for a law of the JRC, which the government of SYRIZA had rejected, as well as the current Government of New Democracy. I'm coming to the bill. If someone were to attend the debate, he would think that two worlds are actually clashing, as Mr. Haritsis said about local administration issues. Okay, are you serious? What worlds conflict? The SYRIZA and the New Democracy World for Local Administration? Is it really not the work of all the governments of New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK - KINAL, to reduce state funding to the municipalities and regions over the past few years? Is it not your job - all governments - to increase the tax payroll, i.e. local taxation in the name of economic self-sufficiency - which you all believe - of the municipalities and regions? Is it not your work to do the Economic Observatory that controls the municipalities on how they make use and how they organise their budgets? Aren't the overthrows in industrial relations yours? Eight months of truth when did they stop? Is it against the government of SYRIZA, which recycle unemployment? The ban on the permanentisation of contractors? Together, you did not vote for the Constitution, where you did not accept the JRC's proposal to abolish this constitutional ban? And you're yelling? Is the contractor not the task of all governments? And, of course, it makes sense to call on the municipalities only to recruit the services that pay fees, i.e. to pay the people themselves the workers who are hired through the increase in compensation fees. The overlapping of the municipalities with the business groups, the business activity carried out by the municipalities? Did any government question this whole package? The commercialisation of the benefits of the municipalities? Which government has questioned it and we don't know it? But also in development plans for the implementation of the European Union's financial programmes, were not all governments on the basis of the eligibility of projects? So the municipalities must be integrated into the central directions of the European Union, governments and regions in order to implement these guidelines which serve the needs of capital? Has not sustainable urban development been your main planning for the municipalities, through the renovations of the areas for attracting investment and those in the tourism sector, effectively tossing out the relief projects of the most degraded populaces in the large urban centres or the projects that are essential for anti-Semitism shielding, anti-military protection, anti-nuclear protection? On the substance of all the governments have turned municipalities into a long-handed tool for implementing anti-grassrooted policies. That is why we are talking about local administration now, which is an absolute application of central policy, the political plans of the bourgeoisie, the ruling class in our country. And from this point of view any changes and reforms have been made, with the various projects - 'KALIKRATIS', 'KOLITRIA', 'KLITHENIS' - it was nothing but the necessary adjustments to the municipalities and regions to enable them to come in proportion to the needs of business groups and their actions. And, of course, all governments agreed on this. And, of course, it is no coincidence that decisions, the majority of decisions in municipalities and regions, are taken by over 90% of the votes on key issues. So here's how the consensus of all these urban parties is confirmed throughout their greatness. After all, it is no coincidence that consensus has a common matrix of the needs that serve the capital, but also the Euro-Union Charter of Government. That's what they unify you. Any differences are on individual issues, how and with whom the anti-grass designs will be implemented, and from this point of view the controversy about the electoral system is a pretext. Today, in the name of cybercrificy, the government has promoted reactionary changes in the electoral system so that anti-population policy can be implemented even faster and without obstacles and reactions. On the occasion of the change in the electoral system was the illegitimate, simply analogous, but it has maintained the unacceptable regime of extortion of popular conscience to make a choice in the second round, who will choose for a mayor and who will choose for a regional ruler. Mr. Snowsides, and Diamond Manolaku, that's exactly what she said. He talked about SYRIZA's illegitimate proportion, because we are clean on this issue and then we voted against the specific arrangement that SYRIZA had brought in. In this context, you are promoting even more reactionary changes: a majority system for municipalities and regions, more difficulties in being able to set up a full list and get off the elections, a reduction in the number of municipal and regional councillors, which, in essence, makes 3% superfluous, because even with a higher percentage of small municipalities you may not elect a municipal councillor. There are few municipalities, a handful, five - six large municipalities with large municipal councils that will block 3%. Everyone else doesn't have to. Nevertheless, you will do so, because you want to block, block any voice of questioning in this policy. And that's why you're doing these paradoxical terrain with communities, so you can control the whole system in local administration. So, in the opinion of the JRC, the logic governing all parties is deeply reacting, and New Democracy and SYRIZA and PASOK and Mer25 and Greek Solution, regarding the need for parties to not engage in local and regional elections. The partyism, he says, is due to all these sufferings. But that is exactly what it is trying to cover up your maximum hypocrisy, that is to say, forbiding party ballots from going down to municipal and regional elections. However, on the night of the elections you are making sure to paint the map of the country in the various municipalities and regions with the colours of the parties that support elected mayors and regional leaders. Why do you want to hide that? To cultivate delusion in the world that "we are self-government and we are not bound by our parties and anti-popular policies". And yet, you are implementing the most savage anti-grassroots policies. From this point of view, the JRC's positions are simply proportional, without any limitations, with no limits on the introduction and election, with the election of the mayor and the district manager from the first combination. From this point of view, let me say that the reference to the constitutionally guaranteed right to equalisation is a joke, because even with any system not all the votes have the same weight. After all, no electoral system and no expert can create such a electoral system that leads to the common good and serve the common good in a class society. Because the substance is from whom. Or for capital or for the people. There is no interim solution and it will never be invented. I now come to two issues concerning the amendments. The first amendment is for the European certificate. In the European Parliament and the New Democracy and the MEPs of the Change Movement and of the Coalition, despite the opposition of the European Parliamentary Left Group, they voted in favour of the European certificate. The JRC voted against it, as it will do with the specific amendment you are bringing. Because this European certificate is not related to the protection of public health, it is, on the contrary, a tool to support the needs of business groups. And from this point of view, it must not be the pretext not to shield public health systems which have been tested in our country and everywhere in the systems of a disease, as it has been converted into regular surgery to a very large extent, even when the private health sector has measured its profits, which have been emitted every day. And today, the speech by the Prime Minister who made for the health system triggers precisely that it will go even further in the trade in health, which is also the penalty for the sufferings of public health systems, that is, the public-private partnership. Secondly, it is a pretext for a certificate of non-compliance with the health protection protocols for workers, for measures to protect health and safety in large business units, because they are considered to be a cost - which is why these units have also been transformed into centres for the transmission of the virus - and for the non-congestion of public transport. The selection of the certificate leads to the relaxation of border control measures and movements, which were a constant request from the large multinationals, airlines, but also maritime transport, hotels and tourist businesses, even when the scientific community has not answered whether vaccination can effectively prevent the transmission of the virus. Of course, there are two more reasons justifying the negative vote of the JRC. That this certificate can be a powerful electronic enveloping mechanism. A number of data-exploitation agreements have already been recorded. Such is the Greek Government's agreement with PALANTIR, a company that has a highly deserved record, with the CIA having financed over $300 million of this company and, of course, signed with the American Pentagon contracts worth several billion dollars. Also, for the reason that this certificate is a field of expression of geostrategic antagonisms for the inclusion of vaccines from other states, such as China and Russia. Finally, for the amendment on the deprivation of civil rights, which we referred to in the morning, the JRC calls for the withdrawal of the amendment, because, on the pretext of dealing with the Golden Dawn, preventing and blocking the Golden Dawn and those condemned by the election of what it does, it is for the JRC to intervene directly within the parties, to verify the legality of the creation of their statutes and procedures, by putting bans and restrictions on the operation and action of the parties, with a tool for the criminal conduct of their senior officials. And by this provision, you still do not prevent Golden Dawn from going down to the election or convicted chrysauges to take part in the election process. You know that very well. And precisely because the times are wicked and, in fact, you are putting in place offences which directly lead to the dangerous provisions of terrorist law, we understand very well that such matters may constitute an opportunity to curb collective democratic rights. From this point of view, and precisely because we know European data and developments with anti-communism, we are asking the government to withdraw the amendment, to discuss these issues in detail, and then to see how. After all, what the JRC had proposed since the first moment after the condemnations of Nazi criminals was the amendment of Article 5 of the electoral law, so that - there is no constitutional emblem - they can be deprived of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate, even those who were sentenced only by a primary judgment and, of course, the self-just deduction from the post of municipal, regional, parliamentary and parliamentary authority for those who have been convicted. Thank you very much, Madam President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mrs Malama has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u164	The bill that the government introduces today for the electoral system of the municipalities clearly reflects the old-fashioned nomadic system of the appointed prefect, the "carved" colonists under the eternal mayor's vote and the local client's relations that stifle all attempts to emanate local self-government. The bill that abolishes the simple analogy to our municipalities turns back to the party lists and to the recording of the self-government map with the party colours. It seems that the New Democracy dreams of a Blue Government. It does not like that today on every municipal council there are independent groups, which in many cases disprove the accounts of party mayors. She does not like the fact that the municipal councils exercise control over majority decisions. She doesn't like the fact that the communities, the villages of Greece, got a voice. It does not feel comfortable by the fact that the self-government movement also has power at institutional level, since the social forces can now be represented in municipality. The government speaks of powerlessness in the municipalities on a simple analogue basis. Do you know why there is insolence in the municipalities? Because today's government has its mayor and district executives everywhere. These elected representatives do not even dare to shine the slightest demand from the societies they are supposed to represent so that they do not become unpleasant with the Minister concerned. Ministers come to the municipalities, instead of the mayors inform them of their problems, they are enough in smiles and in commemorative photographs. This is what happens today where there are "blue" mayors, where there are "blue" district rulers. What is the other equally important reason why there is immorality in the municipalities today? It is very simple that the government has left them out of competence and funding. The municipalities today have no money to meet even the basic needs of their citizens. Mayors see the quality of their citizens' lives degraded because everything around them is devastated and they don't say a word. For two years now, the vast majority of the municipalities in the country have not literally moved or carved. Not a single project has been done. Municipal facilities of all kinds are literally devastated. I do not want to mention very specific examples in Northern Greece because I do not want to target any mayor, but few people who have managed to do something these two years of 'blue' governance. Therefore, the abolition of a mere analogous to the municipalities is a sole incentive to reduce local communities and to manipulate mayors and municipal councils. If you want to strengthen the governance capacity of the municipalities, you need to provide them with human resources, with resources and with institutional responsibilities. SYRIZA as a government made ten thousand recruitments to the municipalities after ten years of marvelation. He gave the mayor's financial tools, with the culmination of the "Philodimos" programme, which you abolished and, in his place, you didn't put anything. What did you guys do instead? You deserved all the financial tools from which municipalities could benefit and suspend any process of institutional strengthening of the first degree of self-government. And so today we have regressive municipalities, we have municipalities that can't create one damage, we have municipalities that give up basic functions like the technical services to individuals, and we have municipalities in a state of bankruptcy. As far as representation in municipal councils is concerned, one wonders what exactly you fear and enter these seats allocation rates. Why should 43% of the vote be taken by a combination of 60% of the seats? Where did that sound? Why are you so allergic to the democratic functioning of municipal councils? Our experience in these two years says - and again I will refer to in general, because I do not want at the level of northern Greece to target anyone personally - most "blue" mayors found an opportunity with the pandemic to impose, by using their majority, the operation of municipal councils through a simple exchange of e-mail. Minor "blue" mayors had accepted live relaying of municipal council meetings or teleconferencing procedures where necessary. Do you know why? Because they are simply seeking to cultivate the same image, that is, Moses, because this has become fashionable - for themselves, this image that the Prime Minister himself seeks. Because they insist on understanding citizens as party armies and electors as beans. Because they are afraid of institutional control, because they obviously do not want to break the eggs of local interlocutory that supports them. We want the self-government movement to be manipulated by all these pathogens. We want the municipalities and the communities of democracy. That is why we have adopted simply proportionally to local government. Unfortunately, New Democracy perceives local government as its political paragagon and mayors as local parties. We will be against this culture that has kept the municipalities so far behind all these years. We will strive to create strong local lists, in response to the partisanisation of local government. We call on all concerned citizens and citizens to take action to finally leave the party state from self-government, so that at some point the country can operate like all European countries, through a decentralised system of self-government, with strong institutions of local democracy. That's what we need, not the counties of party wings! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, my colleague. Now Mr Papadopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that I have listened carefully and for some time to the contributions made by colleagues and, above all, by the SYRIZA colleagues to be honest. It's unbelievable again what we heard today. We have heard from the Member who came down from a moment ago about appointed prefectures, party interventions, and about altering the results with the changes of mere analogy. You're tired. Realize this at some point. And you're tired of all this populism isn't coming to the ears of society. You have not yet realised that local elections have not been in color for several decades? You do not understand that there are no 'green', 'blue','red' mayors? I would remind you, as the debate has brought it, that the New Democracy in the last three - four self-government elections has not given any anointing. You anoint and support. It did not do so either in the region or in the small or large municipalities. But do you know what the matter is? Can today's debate be about the bill on the election of self-government, you know what it actually shows? It highlights a big gap. On the one hand, there are the powers of the Central Right, the Liberal Party, which has received significant, large national choices for the country, and on the other hand, I have to admit, with the support of the forces of the Social Centre. On the other hand, it is a small group on the Left and not of the left of the relentless Cypriot or Floraki, but of the left of the populists who throughout the third Hellenic Republic, when and where they could attempt to form with turbulent methods conditions of infiltration of their forces into the central or local administration. And it does so by engaging other minority forces in the so-called logic of compositions and partnerships, namely blackmailing with minions to go to power and manage in this way, which we all lived in the period 2015-2019, that is what you did. In fact, SYRIZA colleagues after the introduction of the simple analogy - where I wish to wish the national elections no harm in the country - and in the area of self-government it was a more comprehensive concept of institutions and politics, but a concept which you are proclaiming is supposedly in favour of cooperation and a wider strategic alliance. It is a concept that actually seeks a blackmail alliance of minority political forces in the trenches of the Left to the extreme right, populism, interests, those who try to gain rulership by haggling and blackmailing. In particular, with the simple analogue to local government you have shown and sought to join forces, such as the Change Movement, the PASOK, to establish yourself in the area, which of course you have failed, but also all kinds of interests through the local society. By voting in favour of the bill, the simple analogue will be abolished, thereby restoring normality and strengthening democratic dialogue in local communities. This is because while local government is an ideal political space for synthesis and dialogue with the simple analogue composition of ideas and suggestions turned into a transaction. My view is that if the rulers are to have a political ethos, the opposition is to be demanded a thousand times and, unfortunately, this is not because the institutional and anti-constitutional role of the opposition, namely criticism, constructive dialogue with the government when it is not exerted but mutilated into a role bazaar, then democracy is defeated and democratic culture is being devastated, but, above all, politics is being deceived, and that is a blow, ladies and gentlemen, which you have achieved with your decisions and the bills of the period with the incompetent political alliance that you have governed the place. Where did the mere analogy that you committed to? Firstly, municipalities lose money - programmes because they are not controlled by minority municipal councillors - may be forced to implement opposition programmes, third municipal councils to hold a war climate, as the majority of councils are against the elected mayor, fourth, municipal councillors who have occasionally been independent and who have declared themselves to be elected head of teams and take the role of a regulator with a minimum percentage of votes. Your bill, as we said, and then we had predicted it, created huge problems in the functioning of local government. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are reintroducing democracy and democratic dialogue in local society, as well as democratic planning on the relevant municipal council. We are making the mayor ruler with majority power, 43% or more can now implement programme commitments for which it was judged and assessed. The New Democracy faithful to its election promises goes on to the necessary change in the electoral system to promote new municipal and regional authorities. This is an explicit commitment by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to put a definitive end to intergovernmentalism and the institutions of self-government. It didn't impress me, but I'll report it. I saw Mr. Tsipras post a few days ago that Mr. Mitsotakis has nothing to do with what he promised. It's probably off line. You are accusing us of implementing these anti-grassroots measures, Mr Tsipras says that he does not implement. Anyway, to be clear, this change has a clear ideological and political sign. Usually at every conclusion of such a speech we say that we are voting in favour of the bill - which I do - and we urge the opposition colleagues to vote for it too. I'm not doing this today. Incidentally, the Minister himself is here who did so last time in this very serious bill on the vote on the falsifications. We told you: 'Tell us what you want us to do'. Voridis told you. "What do you want me to change?" Silence, denial. Today I won't do that. We do not want you to vote on this bill, colleagues of SYRIZA. Do you know why? Because you will show your voters once again how incompetent you are, how indifferent you are as for Greeks abroad, the same for local government and I want you to show this. It's useful for people to understand. So this bill gives democracy, governance and efficiency. We can drive a powerful local government first and second degrees. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Gikalayas has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today is the clear implementation of the explicit pre-election commitment of the New Democracy, our President and today's Prime Minister that, when our citizens trust us, we will proceed to the fundamental strengthening of the role of local government in both institutional and development. Because today I heard - when I was not in the Chamber and now that I am in the Chamber - colleagues from the Opposition and especially from the Qualifications mentioned and reminded me of the terms 'democratic, progressive' and even though some of them were younger generations, they may have reminded us of us, they turned us back to the punctual memory of the 1980s at that time with the other democratic forces that were supposedly winning the elections. Well, let me say a few things. Being on this side always felt that I was on the right side of progress and democracy, because for me progressive is the one who, from what we know, keeps what is right and has arisen through knowledge, through experience, through the tradition of many years or decades and yet at the same time has the boldness and courage to adopt all the new ones that primarily intend to improve the quality of life of the citizen, every new one that has the characteristics of innovation with the elements of transparency, functionality and good habits. And progressive is the one who is radical and dares at any time adjust and its tactics to these directions that are much more useful. And today, because it seems, Minister, that we have a tactical link between proportionality and representativeness on the one hand and governance on the other. Clearly, the vote of the citizen must be proportionate, expressed, represented, heard by the citizen, and, of course, this has been the case since he has always been entitled throughout the whole four years and in the election period to say his views. If, however, a view at the end of the day does not express 3% of the citizens, something must be done. Our Constitution has a basic principle of popular sovereignty, but, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA in June 2019, when we had mayors who had a multidimensional election and well with 20% in the first round and who came and took 50% in the second round and could not run, is that representativeness of popular sovereignty? Is it possible that you cannot rule in this place, whether this place is a municipality or is it a district, let alone it is a central political scene? That is why our government is coming with the Ministry of Interior and is legislating in such a way that we can govern the municipalities with 43%. To rule the municipalities. Three-fifths of municipal councils have the majority. It provides for many things about the nominations, the way they are submitted and the whole process. Various things in the modernisation of matters relating to blockages, resignations, discharges of election. It goes on to tighten up the debts. One cannot want to be a local ruler and have unjustified debts to the municipality or elsewhere. Let's come to the president of the community a little. On the route of the Greek nation, I can say the genus, even enslaved when we were clearly the community and the president played a dominant and catalyst role in rights and in the way of expression. The fact is, the citizen wants the president of the community. Although we have irrational growth of the Greek state, with demographic growth, with great urbanisation, there must be a president of the community. And it is a good idea that the government will be elected president, who will take more votes, regardless of whether the combination with which he participated will ultimately or not. That's up to three hundred. Minister, I will identify myself with the Members of the majority of the New Democracy who have asked for this to happen. Think about it. Perhaps you have more arguments for the communities than three hundred. Perhaps the president of the community should take more votes. Regardless of whether the combination, in which he participated, majority will be the President. Finally, I would like to say before closing my speech that the government in these two years is strengthening local government. Only last year did it give almost EUR 200 million of regular aid and EUR 50 million of emergency aid. Already are running the "Antonis Tritsis" and "Philodimo II" programmes which are very important and it is sufficient that the municipal authorities have ready-to-date studies to integrate. As a government, we significantly reduced ENPY. The resources of what we want - and they will be transferred - to local government in order to increase self-government. We believe that there must be fair sharing among all citizens indiscriminately throughout Greece. The slightest benefit to social and economic development arises from the work of everyone. We have legislated so far, we have done so far and will continue to do so so that we have a multi-level pluralist participatory democracy in which the roles of the central government, the decentralised administrations, are clear and clear. There are irrationalities and issues that need to be regulated - regulated by its role - of regional and municipal authorities. For all these reasons, I am enthusiastically voting in favour of the bill that the government is currently bringing to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mrs. Kafantari has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u170	Madam President, thank you. Unfortunately, I want to observe something. I follow the latest colleagues on the New Democracy side. We heard a reproduction of what the Prime Minister of the country said last week in Zappeion in forty years since our country joined the EEC at that time. This grey point in our history, a Prime Minister speaking more as a party rule than as Prime Minister of this country, with the term for the four-year period 2015-2019 as a dark spot in our history, unfortunately I have heard it from colleagues of the New Democracy today. I would like to believe that this view does not express either the majority of the Group's parliamentary group or the world of New Democracy. Indeed, this draft law which we are debating today really is a blow to democracy and to the area of local self-government. Strikes on equal rights, freedom of expression. The constitution is being violated, the European Charter of Local Autonomousity of the European Union is being violated. And we have the abolition of a mere analogous. Local government is the institution that is closer to the citizen. The principle of equivalence is also violated as administrative efficiency is not served by 43%, which enters from 50% plus 1. After all, gentlemen of the New Democracy, gentlemen of the Government, Minister, you have shown your moods since the first moment you took over power in 2019. Immediately you abolished elements of SYRIZA's law that introduced simple analogue to local government. You have strongly and over-advanced the economic quality of life committee in the municipalities with the majority of the mayor, the majority of the party - to say so. The democratic functioning of municipal councils, local councils, where decisions have to be taken in practice. So, what do you want with your legality one more time? You want as a system, as Mitsotakis regime, to spread the tentacles of your power and control everywhere. Do this in local self-government too. And that means direct assignments from the municipalities, something you have done in civil protection, and because of COVID. As a vehicle the COVID -19 operated for direct assignments. It's a big deal, of course. No one denies the epidemiological crisis. On the other hand, the same seems to be the case in the face of the anti-nuclear period that we are again going through from the Ministry of Civil Protection. Gentlemen of the government, there is an attempt to reduce the other viewpoint. Anything that bothers you in building your own state. You rule out the need for consensus, the need to compose different views because you think you have the absolute truth. You are strengthening the obsolete dominance system "a man's authority" which has prevailed for decades in our country. Of course, as long as this man is one of ours. That's your logic. In this way, you strengthen transparency, and you limit accountability. You exclude young people who want to offer and engage in the commons of their place. We're talking about the communities and the arrangements you bring. You remove separate polls in communities. Also, especially today, we must address major issues that not only face our country but are global: climate crisis, COVID pandemic -19 with huge economic consequences in our country as well. Equivalent participation by more and more citizens helps to address these major issues which also require consent. Instead of resources and responsibilities in local government, it is always with resources - it is a constant demand from local government - you are operating with this draft law, making self-government monitoring of central authority without the possibility of taking initiatives, without autonomy, I would say without the possibility of taking many actions. You react and ignore as if there are no reactions which have been expressed in both the field of self-government and three major regional councils in our country. You are ignoring the reactions of local societies and the presidents of communities - so to speak - on a pan-Hellenic level. You are even ignoring the report from the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which raises a number of questions about communities again. I come and say, on the basis of a pan-Hellenic survey of the Greek Communities, 27 February to 16 March: 92% knew the Community Council of their region. The separate polls were 78.1% positive and 70% of the respondents want to really work with their community. And in the last 81.4% election young people became active. This is a very serious element. These young people in the way you legislate them essentially, you prevent them from saying so better. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me another minute, Madam President. But you have announced your strategy. Gentlemen of the government, you said: "The general effort is to build and strengthen the character and the institution and power of regional and municipal councils, their effectiveness and their functionality. Creating a more competitive election environment is in this direction. This explains why we are increasing the number of candidates in relation to the reduction in the number of municipal councils and regional councils. The increase in electoral competitiveness leads essentially to an increase in the quality of participants and a strengthening of their role." What competition is that? Why does this thing need to be in local government? But they all have their interpretation. They're part of your strategy. In fact, you, Minister, said two or three years ago: 'We will take institutional measures so that the Left does not rule again'. It appears that the proposed bill aims to exclude progressive democratic forces from the majority of local government bodies. An authoritarian opaque system of governance is frozen, which will be controlled by central authority. We as SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance with open dialogue with all social groups, self-government, progressive forces, in the context of a comprehensive reform for a large decentralised and strong democratic self-government, will fight. And this draft law, if it's passed, we'll change it. Thank you very much for the time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u171	Thank you too, my colleague. The Minister for Finance, Mr Staikoras, now has the floor to place him on the amendment he has tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much, Madam President. I want to develop the amendment under number 910/91. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment provides for the setting-up of a new unit in the HICP, a strategically important development contract unit that will have as its object the preparation and maturation of projects that are part of the Development Programme of Strategic Importance Contracts, including those related to the Recovery Fund. This new unit will operate as a separate, operational and accounting unit, so that there is a clear distinction between the role of the fund as laid down in its founding law on the capitalisation of public assets. This provision extends the purpose of the GOI to help the fund contribute to the national objective of speeding up projects of strategic importance for the country and to make, through and through this new object, a lever for the Greek economy. In particular, in this provision: First, it is foreseen that a contract between the GOI and the beneficiary of the programme is signed for the exercise of the relevant powers. This Convention further specifys the content of the mature powers conferred on the Fund, the remuneration of the Fund for mature services shall be determined, the more specific obligations and the rights of the Contracting Parties and the time limits for the fulfilment of their obligations. Secondly, it is established that the total cost of the development services of the works contracts awarded to the GOI is fully covered by the programme’s beneficiary in accordance with the specified procedure. It is pre-paid to the GOI by the beneficiary of the programme, 80% of the budget for the expenditure on maturation and 50% of the operating costs expected to be incurred by the GOI for the maturation. All agreed maturitying services shall be repaid to the GOI the remaining amount due. In this way, the GOI undertakes specific, under contract, services and is responsible for managing costs, on the basis of the budgeted costs. Third, in particular with regard to projects/contracts financed by the European Recovery Mechanism, the ‘Next Generation EU’, is provided for in a contract between the GOI and the Recovery Fund represented by the Minister for Finance. By this contract, the GOI pays up to EUR 10,000 000 in respect of the provision of maturity services for contracts/projects of the Recovery Fund to be awarded to the GOI by the programme beneficiaries. This amount shall be retained against the beneficiaries of the programme by the Recovery Fund and shall be offset by their debts to the HIPS up to the amount specified in each contract. In addition, TIAD may receive funding from the specific programme of technical assistance from the National Reference Strategic Framework, the NRP, in other words, for the development of projects that can be financed from the NRP resources. So we are trying to speed up the development of projects from the financial programmes that will be unravelled over the next time and towards Greece, whether we are talking about the Recovery Fund or we are talking about the NSRF. Fourthly, the issues of HICP are regulated as an anonymous company in the context of corporate governance, as necessary after the entry into force of the law on public limited corporate governance companies. It is laid down that the supreme body of the GOI is the General Assembly, which is exclusively competent to decide on matters which, under the law on public limited companies, fall within its exclusive competence. It is intended to specify the number of members of the Board of Directors, the specialisation of executive and non-executive members, established in accordance with the company's statute after a decision of the general meeting of the Fund. And the composition of the Management Board is allowed to include more independent non-executive members for better supervision of the work of the Management Board and for the establishment of board committees in accordance with the standards of the law that we jointly voted on, on corporate governance, such as the Audit Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the arrangements relating to ICT, this amendment by the Ministry of Finance incorporates a number of new innovative measures in the 'GEFHRA 2' programme, a programme in which it applied for 41,437 enterprises and freelance professionals, of which micro-enterprises were 22,724. The measure therefore worked. They are particularly beneficial measures for small and medium-sized enterprises affected by the coronary pandemic, which are being triggered for the first time in our country. Firstly, provision is made for the reduction of the interest rate on the non-performing loans included in the programme in question during the grant period and for the follow-up period to at least 10% on the loan contract. Secondly, a right is granted to the financial institution to agree with the debtor measures that are subject to the viability of the arrangement such as deletion of a rate of interest on late and expedited interest, deletion of capital, extension of the repayment period under the conditions I mentioned previously or under those explicitly laid down in the decisions that have been taken. Specific restrictions are provided for the remodelling of the instalments paid under that agreement. Thirdly, it is expressly defined, especially for the loans provided under this programme - I would remind you that this government for the first time in Greece rewards the consistency - that consequent borrowers, natural and legal persons, their state, is subsidising the loan for a long time. For them, it is not permissible to amend the essential conditions of the Capital Convention, the pricing and duration of the loan in a less favourable manner for the debtor for the duration of the subsidy and the monitoring period. Fourthly, there is provision for a 30-day period following the completion of the grant for the settlement of any unpaid amounts on the part of the debtor so that it does not lapse. It is noted that the new measures, what we are today legislating and agreed with the institutions will apply for all the companies that applied for until yesterday in the "GEOFYRA 2" programme. In view of these developments, the first instalment will be paid at the end of June and will be retroactively in May. Finally, with this amendment, the deadline for setting up loans between financial institutions and debtors of the GEOFHY programme is extended until 31 July, from 31 March in force today, and provision is made for the continued payment of a public contribution to the person of the spouse or contract in the event of the applicant's death. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment, the Ministry of Finance and the Government as a whole demonstrate that by further upgrading the role of the TSED we are seeking to speed up the completion of procedures in projects and strategic contracts for the development of the country, and in addition, further strengthen the web of support measures for enterprises affected by the economic consequences of the health crisis, in order to overcome the present difficult conditions as soon as possible. With these, therefore, we are creating additional important conditions for the rapid recovery and strong growth of the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take note of the fact that the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary inquiry into the investigation of offences that may have been committed by the former Minister Nikolaos Papapas in the performance of his duties, for which the Plenary Assembly has set a deadline for submitting its findings on 7 June 2021, calls for an extension of its operation until 7 July 2021. Does the House agree that an extension of the conclusion should be given, until 7 July 2021?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u174	The House unanimously agreed. [[The abovementioned letter is entered in the Minutes and read as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the page in. 330]] Mr Pericles Mandas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to give a small answer to the previous speaker of the SYRIZA, Mrs Kafantaris. Mrs Kafantaris, it was no coincidence that the Prime Minister chose this day to make this position for your period of governance. I want you to be sure that it is not just us who believe that the period 2015-2019 was a dark period for our country. It is now the belief of all the Greek people, by experiencing your works and your days for four and a half years, because you have been the ones who have tried for your party and only interest in the service of your ideas to challenge the European course of our country and that will be politically burdened for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been listening all day to SYRIZA colleagues talking about simple proportionalness and how much major reform was. What are you actually talking about? In which country in the world, in which election system is the mayor elected on the second Sunday, while the municipal council is elected on the first? In what electoral system and in which country does the combination of the elected mayor simply have fewer municipal advisors than the major opposition on the same municipal council? What do you answer to a mayor's candidate, who on the first Sunday takes 46%, 47%, 48%, 49% and the second Sunday comes second? What's happened in the intersection? What may have happened in the intervening period and the citizens within a week have changed their intention of voting? Has he changed his schedule? Did he change what he wanted to do at the place? In which country in the world is the consent, cooperation and synergy of self-government factions imposed by electoral law? How can this be imposed? And let me tell you something else. What happens when, for example, municipal groups fail to cooperate? What is your provision of the law when in a municipality, for whatever reason, the municipal authorities are unable to cooperate? What did you do about it? You condemn an entire region in stagnation, inertia, in a stagnation that will result in four years of disastrous consequences for the citizens themselves. So this system, ladies and gentlemen, was not just proportional. It was a system of ideological, rousphetological analogous, a system of deficit, highly anti-democratic, indirectly cancelling the popular vote and the winner of the elections, since the majority are unable to establish a functional majority and implement the programme for which the citizens have elected it. It is a system that strengthened the background game and the hidden transactions and other services between the first and second Sundays and clearly after the election for the creation of the seats. It is a system that eventually undermined the institution and if our Government had not intervened by law immediately after the elections, things would have been much worse. Do you really think there would be municipalities in the country that could vote for a budget or vote for a technical programme? Aren't you talking to mayors? Haven't you discussed what's happened in the last few months on municipal councils? I challenge you to watch a regional council and a municipal council to see the culture of cooperation and synergy of your own factions, of the factions that you supported. I really do not believe that in SYRIZA they are so naive that they do not recognize the deadlock they have attempted to impose. They were, ladies and gentlemen, deliberately intent to haggle self-government, a field that had no political impulses and to try in a puppet to play the next day. They have the courage to accuse us of micro-political and party rulers, but when they saw that they were losing, they took care to undermine the political stability and the future of the country by legislating and shouting in favour of mere analogy. So what is the bill that we are voting on today? It restores the smooth functioning of local government bodies and at all levels ensures governance. It unleashes the political scene and faces the fragmentation of the political forces. It promotes programming consents, favours compromises and helps form major social flows. It provides sufficient time for the municipal and regional authorities to carry out their work and to be judged by it, with the establishment of a five-year term, i.e. it is possible for a municipal authority to envision, study, mature, fund and implement a project within its term of office. And finally, it definitively corrects the pathogens of mere analogy, which, instead of indestructiveness, was ultimately delusional and beyond. Finally, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on the role of the presidents of the communities. I come from a county, the Messinia Prefecture, which has over three hundred settlements and about so many communities. The role of the President is not only the institutional, self-government role it has. He is the man in the village, who cares for the daily lives of his fellow citizens, he is in contact with the citizens who live in the big cities, but who have their parents, their grandmothers and grandparents there, cares for their everyday lives, cares for basic things that have to do with the smooth course of society at local level. I therefore think that we must clearly ensure in every way and their place, but above all we must ensure their validity. We should, Minister, finally have the horizontal solution with regard to the fixed advance with institutional armour, with the obligation of the municipalities and not leave the possibility only to any mayor who has the conscience to give the presidents permanent and, at the same time, to give them a clear role in how they see and how they seek the development of their local society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u176	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Giannoulis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Manda, if I didn't know your name was Pericles Manda, I'd be confused with Peter Manda, who was a protagonist in a typical Greek film that deals with micropolitics.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u178	Grueza!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u179	Gruezas is from another film, "There is also an honorable one", but there is no patronage. Mr Vorides, I have had the impression - and I say this from my press experience - that the Minister for the Interior is her first minister. What we lived a while ago is that obviously the Interior Minister is considered the last goal of the parliamentary and legislative process, it is being eroded by the powerful Minister of Finance, Mr Stagira, and suddenly a bill appears in the bill. And that's what you claim to be a good way of legislating where two things are secured: Maybe the most important tool for the Recovery Fund, the TIADED, is an amendment to changing the electoral law for local government agencies. How many poaching, how many lies, how many parliamentary alchemys wake up the conscience of the Members of the Co-Population? Explain to us. You brought a law into law? Was it not enough for you to change the electoral law politically, and did it have to come in this way and for the measures for the financial instruments of small and medium-sized enterprises, for the "GEOFHYRA" programme, but also for the change of HIDED to actually be found in the procession of friends and chosen ones who will come to claim with proposals for money or projects through the Recovery Fund? Are you serious? And this is a good parliamentary procedure? Is that a good way to confiscate? Of course, I wondered how many lies, how many poachings stir up the consciousness of the fellow Members of the Couple. The answers are given by what we live every day in reality. And I will also give you a news - you must know - that after we have exhausted the parliamentary discount on every function of Parliament, justice has now entered the target of the country's international conflict abroad. If you do not know this, the European Union of judges in a resolution is abducing our country and the Prime Minister and asking her to return to the rule of law when it comes to representing the collective bodies of judges in justice procedures. That doesn't seem to make you aware either. Today, the bankruptcy code came into effect. I leave the bad piece of legislation with the TIAD and the "GEYRA" programme. To explain once how it is done within the electoral law to implant an amendment law without any discussion. This is for later. But today, apart from the summer, we are also celebrating in the winter of the Banking Code with no answer whether or not the living condition is finally set at EUR 600, apart from the nice lymphatics and verbalism you are using. At the same time, we live in the country that forty-one labour centres say to Mrs Kerameos: 'Don't throw away the educational system of higher education twenty-five thousand poor children'. No reaction. We have Hatzidakis. It's become the superview. I don't know why he chose Superman's cake, but right now he's the one who exposes the work and the workers in comedian situations. We started with the olives, we got to the day off. Where does that prick stop? I also remember Mr Mitsotakis or Mr Samaras - I don't have it very clearly in my mind - asking myself by blaming the SYRIZA Government, "Ma, did Athens Kabul become?" What happened today? Kabul and Baghdad together? And do you have the courage and courage to address yourself as if you were still in the opposition and opposed the opposition as a daily response to your own inertia and inefficiency? Four hundred fast track police officers and opt-outs other six hundred for university police, at the same time as for the health system, adjunctive doctors, four thousand, and young scientists are waiting at it with the abolished or frustrated, corrupted ASA to find a job outlet? You told us, Mr Brutsi, with every appreciation on your face, and I say again, that five hundred young scientists from abroad will come and start leaving by hundreds, not five hundred. I'd say a lot about how you're dealing with it, but I want to come to self-government. I'm on a regional council, and I want to tell you this. You don't live in this country? You do not know that meanings such as opacity, such as lack of accountability, such as lack of democratic planning, such as lack of planning have become synonymous with self-government which you people are confronted with because I have heard the very great hypocrisy: 'but there are no party candidates today.' Really? So, Mr. Patulis what is he? SYRIZA? What's Mr. Gigikostas? The Independent Greeks? He had come down with the Independent Greeks. Does it represent any political space we don't know about? In any case, it is preferable to admit what you have in mind to do, that the abolition of mere proportionately deprives the one-stop shops of the possibility of having another eye, a cooperation that would also work in control and would result in one thing, what you do not want, the transparency that you are facing not to say how. It seems, of course, from the way in which municipalities and regions entered direct awards. In the regions in particular, and I would ask you not to be disturbed, it has gone, the regions in particular, the twelve of your thirteenths, with your neighbours - and if you do not want to admit it - have been the 'Pezasa Syndrome' in a subspace. They've been dived like districts, electronic pages, local type, electronic media. Mercy now. Put a measure on it. I think that smuggling with simple analogues is precisely because your relationship with democratic processes is the ones expressed and the way you govern them. What was linked to self-government has unfortunately also offended the body of central power and the ruling party. Mr. Voridis, I know you're a good acquaintance of history. I want to remind you of something. I hadn't given birth. I hope you're too young. In 1958 two ministers of government of Karamanlis, George Rallis and Anastasios Papaleguras resigned. They resigned for their own reasons because they feared the rise of the Left, which happened with the SAD as opposition to the election campaign.The latter resigned because he considered the electoral law of the over-advanced analogy with which the next elections would take place. They quit. They had the courage to resign to a powerful government of Constantine Karamanlis in 1958, for reasons of principle for electoral law. Think about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. We are now entering the fourth circle of speakers with a natural presence. Mr Pinheiro has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law reshapes the way in which municipal and regional authorities are elected, corrects the distortions and deadlocks of SYRIZA's Law 4555/2018 on simple proportional to local and regional self-government of an erroneous inspiration from the result that led the majority of municipal authorities to rule of law. It was a utopian political act. In the name of strengthening minority groups, they invested in non-decision, maladministration and inefficiency towards the citizens, and all this provided for the political downturn and disapproval of the Greeks. The current government, politically neutral in time, implements a central election commitment, focusing on the essential reinforcement of local government in both institutional and development sectors. This legislative initiative abolishes a simple analogue card, which has led to many cases of elected local self-government hostages, a hostage which, in turn, deprived the citizens of service projects who are entitled to enjoy more and more when they live in remote and sensitive areas by creating malfunctions in the sense and demand of the daily production of a municipal, regional and administrative result, with the delay in taking decisions, we are all experiencing it in the Aristotle Evros and the absence in many cases of a sufficient, structured and stable opposition function. The Government of New Democracy with political responsibility and braveness restores rulership to local government, unlocks the bureaucratic processes so that decisions can be made quickly, so that the programme adopted by the citizens by their vote can be implemented and exploited by all the financial instruments available to us. The LAGs are allowed to be managed effectively, checked when necessary and evaluated in a reasonable time by the citizens by restoring the disharmony between the will, the will of the electorate and the composition of the local government bodies. Today we are laying the foundations of a modern local government that operates as a strong pillar of development and social cohesion, an self-government which, through the relationship of trust and cooperation with the central government, will provide citizens with quality services. Mayors and districtlors, who will emerge from the October 2023 elections, will have a full five-year term of office starting on 1 January 2024. They will therefore be elected from the first Sunday as they gather 43% of the votes, and their combination will occupy 3/5 of the council's seats, thereby removing the argument that there is no majority on the municipal council as a stagnation factor. Under the law of SYRIZA on the basis of the results of the last two hundred thirty of the three hundred two municipalities and six of the thirteen regions of the country, the mayor or the regional director respectively does not have the majority of the members of the municipal or regional council and cannot implement the policy for which he was elected by the citizens. Lost time and lost energy in endless consultation, talks and introvert. A 3% threshold is also set for the right to elect a municipal or regional consultant, as is the case in the parliamentary elections. It is planned to elect councils or presidents of municipal communities throughout the territory without exception, a provision which meets the relevant demands of local communities. At the same time, oversized councils are shrinking, as the composition of the municipal authorities will henceforth be consistent with the size and special conditions of each region. Finally, account shall be taken of the permanent population, as reflected in the results of the last census. Ladies and gentlemen, local government agencies as decentralised public affairs administration bodies, as defined in the Constitution, cannot, but must not be the subject of micro-political corruption of central political and legislative power. We must stand up to our constitutional obligations, to formulate rules and guarantees that allow for decision-making and the healthy functioning of our municipalities and regions. We must fight methodically so that the benefits of economic and social development are shared fairly across all citizens in every corner of the country of inclusiveness and non-discriminatoryness, in order to equip and strengthen self-government with all the tools it needs for the proper management of local and regional affairs. Finally, to say this in a simple word, we better prefer decisions and the one who runs must make decisions and put himself in the citizens' judgement, and that is the sovereign and not the non-decisions. That is why I am voting in favour, Minister, of this law which covers the country's popular feeling and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u182	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr. Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think the closure of the position of the former Member of the New Democracy was proof of what the New Democracy wants. It wants decisions to be made regardless of who the citizens are elected. It is not important, therefore, that we have here in self-government the people choose, that the decisions and firm hands of the state be taken everywhere. I think this bill is revealing the identity of the New Democracy. Mr. Vorides couldn't do anything else. Instead of tabling any proposal for reforming, visionary, democratic for the future of self-government, which many have served in this Chamber, it comes and tables a proposal for elections. So this is the identity of the New Democracy. Watch out. A lot of big words, communal wrapping. Mr. Petsas, Mr. Voridis, join you, since with the Petsa list you have arranged the speech of many media, but on the substance of the settlement of a system of power and no proposal for reform for the country. I must say, of course, Mr Vorides, that this electoral system you are tabling is ideal for the incubation of blue children. You are practically setting up a power reproduction mechanism. I do not underestimate that it is political intervention, it is just showing your own political agenda and at the same time degrading both self-government and communism and taking us back and forth. With people here in the Chamber and we have served in self-government, we know that you are taking us far behind the European Charter and the European acquis. What are you actually doing? You are abolishing the simple analogue, which applies to the European system of self-government and abolishing the basic principle of self-government that the hereditary body is the central political body elected by the citizens and you say 'I am not interested in the Community Councils' first and second, 'I don't even care about representativeness in municipal councils, I am interested in having a mayor make decisions'. So you're dismantling the self-contained. This is the self-interest in Europe. Municipal councils are self-government, citizen participation. And you say "I want a single representative who has around ordinances and make decisions, regardless of whether he represents the majority of society". But that is not a democracy. But what are the issues that self-government has in front of her today, to see if you have any answers, Mr Vorides? First issue. Responsibilities in the modern state. No proposal for an administrative organization. You have forgotten about it, along with the degrees of your officials and representatives. Let's leave that too. No political proposal, no vision. Second matter. What does self-government need? Personal. After the 3K of SYRIZA and Mr. Skourletis, no recruitment initiative. On the other hand, contractors with pandemic exceptions and the replacement of municipalities by non-democratic persons, with signature and stamp and technical services, with so-called development services. At least here in Parliament, we in other things were used to serving development, development and not to conduct technical studies, technical permits and the replacement of technical services outside the control of self-government. So I've been challenging, dehydration of services! Let's go to the third point that self-government needs. Financing. And here, of course, no budgetary support, no practical reduction in the funds for a pandemic, because the municipalities put their hands in the pocket, but you did not make it up to them, but at the same time from the back party exploitation of funding and services. You know, Mr. Voridis, we had many years in Greece to see mayors gathered outside the offices of ministers and substitute ministers and to exchange, with contrast, works and funding of the project, the "Antonis Tritsis", something that the New Democracy is doing today. For now, with party criteria, funding is being given and party blackmails are being given and regularised funding is being given to self-government. So the part of the resources goes too, unless you're a best friend. Let's go a little bit on other real things. What is happening in the management of waste, which is a key issue of self-government? First part. We are privatising what we can now in fast and ideologically with PPPs, even though they were launched with public funding throughout Greece, solid waste projects and recycling, which is our future, which is our life, which is the quality of life of the city, which is the process of transition to another recycling and climate neutrality society. A cannabis scandal, where you have authorised a system that is contrary to Europe's objectives, and the services have said that it does not catch the recycling targets. And it's not enough that you didn't finance it, but you come from Tritsis and you finance it from the back door, and it's obliged to give the municipalities equipment and you come and give over 200 million. There is also a decision of the Court of Auditors on this. So, and on key issues of our lives, which there is a need to go forward, go back to self-government, not to say about the green transition, to climate law, or to the Reconstruction and Resistance Fund, where self-government is absent from this debate. After all, the House is absent - and I say this - and northern Greece and Thessaloniki. And what does New Democracy do for all that self-government needs? Reduction of responsibilities, increase of majority voting in non-responsible bodies from non-responsible, at least not resulting from electoral legitimisation, removal of powers in communities so far. Why have you gone through everything in the committees and underestimated the outcome of the elections, namely a democracy restriction, and you come in practically now and put rulership as an opponent of representativeness and you accept - because this is your attitude - to reduce representativeness to increase governance, that is, to effectively govern self-government institutions rather than collectively, which do not correspond to the majority of society. And you call that a democracy? It is a good thing that this overrun does not correspond, you know, with nothing in the principles of democracy that we know. Obviously 43% has nothing to do with 50% plus 1, or 60% of the seats will have anything to do with the election result. Let me not talk about the abolition of communism, because you are abolishing communism when you do not allow the polling of communities, when you have abolished the powers of the communities and when you are obliged to choose another combination, to be run by another combination. Is that your opinion of democracy? A 15% combination in one community versus another that takes 60%, is run by the majority of the combination that gets less? This is not a democracy. This is a Voridis election system. It probably corresponds to a logic of other times, but we have expelled from the country, because here we now have the support, if you like, in the case of democracy and representativeness. This is practically your attitude, boosting factorism, strengthening, if you like, a system of power with municipal advisors who have no rights, but have less representativeness and relationship with society. I believe, Mr Voridis, that the next thing you are doing is giving the presidents of the municipal councils the power to control the votes of municipal councillors, which you are already doing in Parliament, when you have restricted the right of Members to participate directly in the roll-call votes. It's probably the next step of your own sense of democracy. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] But this is an unprecedented devaluation of self-government function. Because anyway, you have nothing else to suggest. Restriction of democratic functions, privatisation of functions of self-government and settlement of the power system with ruffles. Madam President, I will close very quickly with the Greek amendment. It is a demonstration of the curiosity and fragmentation of this government. It comes first of all and adds the Minister of Tourism to Article 1 of the amendment, which could be done much earlier with another regulation. He then comes with Article 2 and talks about temporary work. When will the final infrastructure projects and the basic infrastructure permits become? There's no timeline. In Article 3 it says that, because we have delayed PPPs to determine the advent of joint use of public-private property, we consider that there is a person in property to be excellence, because they themselves have created serious problems in the time of delivery of the public-supply. In Article 4, they transfer the Greek Office to the Ministry of the Environment, while there are serious matters of competence and the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Development. Here, let me say they're keeping the demolitions at the Ministry of Development. Nice transfer of that responsibility, too! There are also serious issues about the possibility of licensing companies and the adequacy of this mechanism to go ahead. Not to say that Article 4, there are possibilities in this service and it is also possible for it to act as a business adviser, instead of making authorisation and supervision work as an advisor. In any case, it comes to Article 5 and lets it be understood that the Presidential Decree of the Development Plan is currently substantially amended. We want to make that clear. Not to come back to the House again any attempt to change the warfare in the Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u184	You have to close down, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u185	Of course, Madam President, it also goes through indiscriminate provisions, such as a change in the use of land or a specialization with a ministerial decision and a decision by the Minister to transfer the demolished to preserved and vice versa, which is also unacceptable and shows the dubiousness of this arrangement. Mr Voridis, you may not have the power to do so, but we would suggest that you withdraw this amendment, which is an indication of the roughness with which this government works, which has nothing to do with the so-called accomplishment, and if you want to go ahead with any substantive arrangements, you should come to the House to discuss it. But the main and dominant one is this. It is unacceptable by electoral law to limit democracy, self-government and communism in Greece, but this is proof of the mindset of the New Democracy. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, too. Mr Ploris has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA's former colleague, but also all SYRIZA's colleagues, who have been seated today, are calling on the Minister and the Government to choose governance against representativeness and that this is not a democracy. SYRIZA colleagues, in the central political scene four and a half years, have you ruled on the principle of representativeness or on the basis of the principle of governance? Because when we talk about local self-government and the way we are elected, we think that this is a problem of democracy, in your view, if we do not have the simple analogue, obviously this will be much more intense for you on the central political scene. But what have you done to see the consequences of the parties on all these issues? You were arrogant in this area too. In 2015 you won elections. You were able to change and bring the simple analogue and go to elections on a simple analogue basis, from January 2015 until September 2015. An hour's bill was to bring it in. You didn't bring it for what? Because at that time you were interested in ruling. Classic cyberneticity principle. And, indeed, rule without you to have a majority. Not a 50% majority. Even with the electoral law of the enhanced analogy you did not have a majority. Ruleability prevailed. And that, unfortunately, is what the Central Left is doing historically. Here are two main differences we have: New Democracy has always defended that both in the central political scene and in the self-government there should be electoral laws that can be formed in the central political scene, strong governments in the local government being able to run selfgovernment, and you - and this is about PASOK when SYRIZA has always been in power - have always chosen the electoral law that is of interest to them. I would remind you that the Centre left remembered the simple analogue when the New Democracy was about to come to rule. I'm talking about '89. The New Democracy, on the contrary, when it was 2004-2009, brought law with a reinforced majority, knowing that it could lose the election. You at SYRIZA the simple analogue when did you remember her? You remembered it after you had provoked the country and went to elections and formed a government. Because one thing you care about wasn't ideological: Don't rule the place. In local self-government, what did you care about? Let's go see what it is and what's not a democracy for your beginning. You, in other words, think that if a mayor gets 49% and the second takes 13%, but there are twenty ballots, that he with 49% cannot be a mayor and has to be a second round, and in the second round the one who had 13% and gets 51% best expresses the popular principle. You think that at the moment a scheme that will get 47% -48% should negotiate with 2% -3% so that the municipality can be governed. So here it is a matter of cybercracy, but what we consider to be exactly the expression of popular sovereignty. We're coming over here and we're putting the rules in. If, as you say, there are all these problems, that is, all this time that the municipalities and regions of this type have had the electoral systems that Mr Vorides has been having, were there a problem of democracy? Oh, no. You brought an election law for a simple reason. Let's just talk about what's going on here, it's not complicated. You knew you were losing all the regions and all the municipalities. You knew. So at that time you have operated on two terms: firstly, how am I going to create a serious problem for those who will win the municipalities and regions? I will not give them the opportunity to have a majority. Why? If you had the culture of the partnerships you're talking about, we'd see it for two years. Tell us, the Open City, where you have it, where you cooperated? In which region and in which municipality has it collaborated to have this principle of governance and the culture of cooperation? You don't cooperate anywhere. Let's go to the big guys we've got. You don't cooperate anywhere. So the first thing you were interested in was creating a problem for the municipalities and regions so that they could not be run and the second was to achieve what you want. Let us just say it: the self-government 'dalaver'. Excuse me for the expression, but this is how it has to be recorded. Have a percentage and based on this percentage of claiming a share of power wherever you are. That was what you liked in four and a half years of governance. And what were you talking about? "On the one hand, we will not let self-government be commanded, on the other hand, wherever there is to be an administration, we will have a say." Not a reason at the programme level, too, but at the level of the prefecture of power. That's what you wanted to do in the central political scene. When you actually saw that things will change and you will not be trusted, what did you care about? Have a simple analogue for there to be a problem of governance of the place, so that you too will always be in your mind a factor that should be interlocutor in the logic of power. Because your thinking was never how self-government would benefit. Your reasoning was how self-government will not be commanded if you have no say in it. With the bill, then, this is consistent with our principles in the whole context of post-Multipulation, whether we are going to win elections on the central political scene or lose, or in the self-government the shapes that we support or lose, we want the one who takes the vote from the people to be able to govern. We also cover the principle of representativeness under the conditions laid down. But it is the major thing for us that the Greek people trust, or in self-government in the central scene, to be able to make their program. I would also like to refer to the amendment on civil rights. You have understood that, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that this is a feat that you have achieved with the 2019 Criminal Code. You were the party that chose to abolish the deprivation of civil rights. Why? Because in your philosophy you say that no man should be convicted of denying his political rights. That's the philosophy of the Left. How are you now consistent in voting for this provision as a barrier to electoral law? The argument on the left, ladies and gentlemen, is that because our system is penal, because they are people who have rights - and, of course, have rights - that it is too barbaric to deny them civil rights. And you voted for it. You changed the Criminal Code. When you saw that some would not be deprived of their political rights by what you voted for, in your vote, by SYRIZA, in your arguments, on the argument that everyone should be involved in political life, you say "how it will be corrected". Makis Voridis comes and brings it here as a coma in election.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u188	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u189	Your philosophy. You understand, Mr. Xanthopoulou, what I'm saying. You understand that well. When you think that a convicted person should not have in the Criminal Code the deprivation of civil rights - which the court over there does also control to whom he deprives and to whom he does not deprive, if it is not compulsory from the article - how do you think it is wrong to say 'yes'? But for a coma, however, in the electoral law, he can say. Isn't it against the philosophy that he made you take it out as an incidental sentence? But, actually, and there you are well in theory, but when the act comes you see the problems. The same is with electoral law. We congratulate the Ministry, which will finally enable municipalities and regions to operate in rules of smoothness and governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Now Mr. Loverdos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u191	Madam President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. You will allow me, Madam President, before I make my comments on the draft law that Parliament has today before it to make a reference to the completion of the Turkish Minister for Foreign Affairs' visit to our country and to make a first assessment of exactly how things went. There was a reflection before Mr. Tsavosoglou visited Greece if and whether he came here with the mandate to take the rematch from what was played at public level, that is, apart from behind closed doors, diplomacy in Ankara a few weeks ago, or whether he comes by another line. We were presided over by the Turkish Deputy Minister of State responsible for Turkish dissertation issues who had visited Greece a few weeks ago, and in a way our own assessment of the information we have collected, but also of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was that his visit was low tone. I have no time to analyse the points that we interpret. Since Sunday, when Turkey's Minister of Foreign Affairs visited Thrace, we started getting the messages - the main messages, because there are other readings - that he came to Greece with a mandate not to claim to reclaim. This was the first impression and especially the impression that his visit was completed. It is obvious that what Turkey wanted from the first visit of the Greek Foreign Minister there, namely to use it to send out a message of interlocutory to the United States, but also to the European Union, was ruined by the unfortunate initiative of the Turkish Minister of Foreign Affairs in Ankara to refer to the minority in Thrace with the well-known aggressive designations and to get prepared, written answer from the Greek Minister of Foreign Affairs. He has changed the line here and has complied according to the adequacy of public diplomacy by trying to send - I repeat - the message of interchangeability by exploiting these bilateral contacts. It is undeniable that these contacts are positive and certainly preferable to the intensity of Turkish aggression last summer and autumn. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must consider whether the debate behind closed doors showed some signs of change or change in the Turkish attitude. He didn't show a spot like that. The growing agenda such as those who have been tabling the debates in exactly the way they were tabled in Ankara, and the burden on the Cyprus issue, where the Turks openly stand in favour of partitioning! And why am I saying this with such emphasis on partitioning? Because when you talk about sovereign equality like the exact term that the Turkish Minister for Foreign Affairs used in the five-day tragedy of April, it is now clear that the Cyprus issue as the Turks think, with their choices, is upheld directly and insulting all the decisions of the United Nations General Assembly and Security Council. That's the way it is. If you noticed in the Turkish Foreign Minister's interview at the "Couple of Sunday" the Cyprus issue is a small paragraph because they want to overcome it, and in practice they are absolutely in favour of partitioning. Look, Greece must take advantage of this because it is another element that shows that Turkey is a state of turmoil, as its President at least wants to direct it in recent years, especially after 2016. So we are keeping what was done and from the Turkish Minister's visit to Thrace, and what he said in more closed circles, that is to say, 'Let's go up to September, we have seen it again since September' and what has repeatedly underlined Turkish officials lately. It seems - nothing more - that the summer of 2020 will not be repeated in the summer of 2021 and that is positive. I wish that's the way it is! Now, Minister, I would like to thank you because, with the legal interventions you have made, you have corrected an injustice. I do not have time to go into the question of whether it is right to reduce the municipal councils you have decided on. I think it's wrong. However, your choice to change what your legislative initiatives have regulated in relation to the three major municipalities of the country, Heraklion, Larissa and Piraeus - I was interested in Piraeus - but then we saw that this consortium of planning concerns both municipalities. Unification in the first category, adding to these municipalities an injustice that you have caused and that is positive. Now we're going to the total changes of Law 4555/2018. I, colleague, as we were here in the Chamber when Minister Skourlet's initiative was being discussed at that time in 2018. That's how I remember. We denounced her. We had denounced the simple analogy, so we called it, even though we found that it was neither analogous. It was a setup contributor. And we said that this would cause problems in managing the issues that the municipalities have. That's what we were talking about. And some of us thought that democracy is the highest good in our minds. If, however, it does not combine the effectiveness, governance and efficiency of the functioning of local government, the lack of efficiency is against democracy. So there must be a balance. These are 'institutional kindergarten', at least for the Member States - in the western hemisphere of the world or those other than them who share these values, that democracy must be strengthened by strengthening the institutions of efficiency. That's what we were talking about then, everyone in his way. Others understood it more complicatedly, someone more simpler. You insisted on this initiative then and it is time for the act to prove whether or not your initiative was right and it has been a few years since then and it has been two years since the municipal elections in 2019. What is it that I noticed that my eye was able to observe? Ladies and gentlemen, where there were people who actually weighed things seriously, something worked with cooperation. However, in the majority of cases where I know, personal disputes, political disputes, party disputes, personal ambitions created problems in the daily life of the municipalities and, very easily, partnerships were made in ways that do not honor those who are supposed to defend democracy. Unholy alliances, after elections, tribulations and full-time candidates had been held on the basis that it is preferable to go down with a combination and get out of being in combination and never ever being a vice mayor. That's what we've been through. That's not a democracy. These are caricatures of democracy with consequences for efficiency. The changes were therefore necessary. We had said then that as long as it passes by and through our vote, we will change it. We were opposition, we remain opposition. But I remember, Mr Vorides, some years ago, I think we were colleagues and when the New Democracy had brought the draft law with 42% instead of 50%. We then supported the science lessons we talked about 50% as the legislation was in our day and we do not change our minds. Therefore, today in the Chamber, apart from the fact that the flaws of Officerial Opposition - or quasi-blemishes or pretexts - are conflicting with your legislative initiative, we too have an open challenge. 42%, 43% or 50% plus 1? We're staying steady. That is our view, and in that sense we are not going together. However, the change was necessary. It should be done in a way that would secure what Greece has done for decades and has been successful. I remember a study - and I close with this - entitled 'The mayor', which was an institutional study by administrative law that highlighted in the early 2000s how important the regulation of 50% plus 1 was and how wrong the legislative initiative of the then New Democracy was. Well, here, in the Chamber there are consequences for attitudes. You are consistent with a misguided policy. You've lived her, introduced her, changed her and brought her back. Officers have the effect of having a distorted policy, and we have a consequence in good policy on the promotion of the mayor, which is the policy of 50% plus 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Ioannis Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u193	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister for the Interior, Mr Vorides, on bringing this amendment today with which he is protecting democracy. Democracy is a very difficult city, vulnerable as many think, but at the same time powerful, because it is based on freedom, popular will and popular sovereignty. I am pleased that the government has put forward an amendment that will protect democracy and our culture from those who are being followed and from those who want to undermine it and overthrow it by violence or other unfair and immoral ways. At the same time, I would also like to thank those parties in opposition which have agreed with Mr Vorides' amendment. Without questioning Mr Pleis' argument earlier, with which I agree, the positive thing is that even now opposition will vote and support the government's amendment at this point. With regard to the content and change of the electoral system for the next municipal and regional elections. You know, the electoral system in Greece has always been used - not only by the SYRIZA governments, by many governments - as a means of influence on the part of opportunistically, depending on how it helped the respective government. That is why he was forced to bring this regulation of an older government, not to change the electoral law in the "almost five" of the elections, but to change in the next elections if he does not collect the majority of the House. Also, the electoral system suits each country differently. It does not mean that one system is more democratic than the other. I'll give you a characteristic example. In Great Britain, the world's oldest parliamentary democracy, the system that prevails is majority in a small region, one-sided. It is a system that, if you look at it on the left here, you would say it is undemocratic. Is it not a democracy for the United Kingdom? Is it not a democracy in the United States where they are elected by a traditional system that was in place in the first few years after the American revolution, which can cause problems, but operate? He can get a majority in votes, but the president is elected by the college of electors with fewer votes. You know, in the United States the Senate, which is the most powerful legislature, has two representatives from each state. The state of Vermont, for example, with six hundred thousand inhabitants, can have two senators representing it, as well as California, thirty and thirty - five million. This, however, has been a system that has been operating and operating for decades. It does not mean that it is neither democratic nor undemocratic. It's a system that works. Democracy is not judged by the electoral system, in my opinion, but by its effectiveness and its ability to be a sovereign rule of law, which works for the benefit of its society and its citizens. For me it was a constant concept - certainly also of the New Democracy, I hope most of the reasonable people - that in Greece the system of mere analogy - which is never undoing, is very treacherous sometimes - is not the best. The best is the enhanced analogy system. That is what I have always believed, and I believe that New Democracy and that should in my opinion be a well-established system for our country and should not have to change as many times as it has changed in recent years over the last few decades. I remember the law of Scandalides, the law of Pavlopoulou, the law of Theodorikou, the law of Skourletis. That's a great law, the law of Skourlet! There have been many changes in the electoral system, not necessarily for the benefit of our democratic culture, especially because it was serving the individual government at the time. But this is opportunism, it's not a democracy. I will give you an example on the Skourlets Act again for the election of mayors and municipal and regional councils. Mr. Skourletis, SYRIZA, in other words, brought the law of mere analogy for the election of municipal councillors, not just proportional to the election of mayors. The mayor and the Skourlets Act were elected with 51%. This would also be the case, unimportant, which has happened. The mayor of 51% has three municipal councillors. There is a municipality in my region, in West Athens, the Municipality of Petropolis, where the Mayor of Vlachos has elected with 50 plus 1 and has a minimum number of municipal councillors to direct his municipality. Fortunately, some views have prevailed from several other factions, such as Mr Skalliras, who also had the support of many neo-democratics and has been a co-operation in this particular municipality. In other municipalities, however, they did not exist and that is why they could not be governed. There are, of course, municipalities that have a great success and the mayors who have managed to overcome party baffles have achieved incredible results. For example, in my own constituency, West Athens, is the mayor, Andreas Pachatourides, for sixteen, eighteen years - I don't know how much he's gone, I've lost count - and it comes out at 75%. Why? What's the wisdom of the Pachatourides? It's not shredded, it's not partitioned. You don't understand that, many on the left. The municipalities are no longer party. People don't care which party you vote for in the parliamentary elections. He cares if you're an effective mayor, if you're effective in what you do for the sake of the city and the citizens. And that is the philosophy of the New Democracy. That is why Kyriakos Mitsotakis refused, although he was under pressure, to anoint candidates in the last municipal elections, although it was only a month before the parliamentary elections. This must also change this great change that will be in favour of the municipalities, in favour of the governance of the municipalities and in favour of the effectiveness of the municipalities brings with it the law tabled today by the leadership of the Ministry of Interior and which we also support 158 Members of the New Democracy as a fist. Be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Xanthopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Today is a flagship day for the country's jurisprudence system. The Union of European Judges, acting unanimously, has decided to recommend to the Greek Government that the legislative initiative, each of its opinions and the presence of the judiciary associations of the country, be included. It is a point that the government must now understand that it is 'playing playrs' and cannot handle the institutions in its own choices. In democracy, the institutions are self-evident and we are obliged to cooperate, regardless of our personal or political views. Secondly, it is also a very important day because the new bankruptcy code is in place. Natural persons are now going to get bankrupt, ceased any protection of the first home and the drama that will begin tomorrow - hundreds of auctions are on the paper - will actually be a central political risk in the next few years. It is possible that I refer to the government's legislative initiative and to the amendment introduced by the Minister. It is for us legalists that the law creates consciences and that is why the New Democracy, when it was elected, decided to dehydrate, weaken the law of mere analogy to local government, transfer decisive powers to economic committees and thus insult the recent popular verdict in a more straightforward way. It did not leave any vital space in this new attempt to create a new field of local government, where consensus would be imposed on reality, to see how much we can function consensually at least at the level of local government. With a deep conservative approach to the interest of a man and a stronger authority from the first point of view. Today it is being implemented and institutionalised by changing the electoral law. We have repeatedly heard from the government's colleagues that the institutional representatives, the mayors, the regional managers were opposed. Of course they were against it. Have you heard or know in the history of politics people who lose rights to agree without objection? This system is coming to abolish the dominance-centre system and to give voice to elected representatives. It is obvious that the one who deprives him of his right to resolve and commit will object. But as a society, how do we proceed with a man's principle or majority principle? Secondly - and I close with this - a mere analogue would create a culture of understanding of what the entire Greek society needs. Of course, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, here the Prime Minister for the 40 years since accession identified the period 2015-2019 as a black hole in parliamentary democracy. It makes sense, therefore, and you are consistent with your logic when you do not want a culture of consensus and when you do not realize that in democracy everyone has reason and we all have to recognise ourselves in the institutions. On these specific articles now, two points. You remove local communities. The new members of local government are hatching there and badly doing so. Look at the Scientific Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and it says so clearly. 'It asks, however, what is the legitimate purpose justifying the compulsory electoral cooperation of the candidate for municipal commune with a municipal combination and the exclusion of the possibility of submitting independent candidates?' The Scientific Committee of the Parliament says so. It's not just us. You can understand that what you're doing is not helping at all. Secondly, you set 43% limit for the mayor's election and 43% becomes 60% on the municipal council. Who is this accelerator, the catalyst that increases representation on the municipal council by 50%? And do you not understand that this actually reinforces the mayor's centrality, so that the elementary consents to demand the mayor will not go any further? Let me say a proposal that I made in the committees as well: 43% of the mayor has 51% of the municipal council, so that there can be the principle of governance, but not the absolute sovereign. Should I say something else compatible with electoral law? Give me a step-by-step increase. "You've got 43, you've got 51." 'You took 45, you'll have 53'. You got 48 you'll have 58." In other words, give this opportunity to come into contact with and odourize different views on the municipal council. But that's none of your business. You want a man who will run, a man who will do the packages to know who you have to do and be able to do what he has in his mind by ignoring in many respects the expressed view of the municipal council. On the subject of the amendment, Mr Colleagues, we have often disagreed, and I ask you to do so, because while you are a law-approved again, you are going back on the wrong track of the debate we have had. The Penal Code that we voted abolished as an incidental penalty the deprivation of civil rights because it was a completely anachronistic remnant of the code of the 1950s. And we say it is an administrative issue of electoral legislation, which is why we have been doing the legislative initiative that you rejected and which the Minister is coming to do now, and that is what we have said a long time ago. It's not the Criminal Code that's blocking. It is the lack of regulation in electoral law. Madam President, I do not want to abuse time by my next colleagues. Minister, I would like you to follow up some of the comments I have on these articles. There is provision for the irrevocable sentence of imprisonment for the acts included in the first chapters of the Criminal Code. So a question arises: what about these offences that are described after the first six chapters or special criminal laws? Although many of them carry penalties similarly or heavierly, are these excluded? It is also unclear why actions against personal and sexual freedom are excluded, human trafficking, rape, childbirth, which really have a total indulgence, and we do not understand how this distinction is made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u196	That's why we had them in the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u197	I don't have time to answer that. You're pushing me, that's why you're doing this to me. Minister, it is also required in the case of a bb irrevocable sentence to any sentence for crimes of the military penal code for which life sentences are threatened. But many times, due to lightning and other circumstances, a much smaller penalty is imposed. So only by threatening the penalty will there be this problem and this man will have a sentence of seven or five years and will have a coma? In addition, life imprisonment does not typically provide for a maximum period of completion except in the case of the condition of dismissal. What will that man do? Will he be deprived of his political rights on the basis of life? Is it not useful to put a maximum legislative limit on the deprivation of its political rights? I'm a little in a hurry because I've already been to nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u198	But you have to close down slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u199	Tolerance, because I make specific remarks, Madam President, please. Also, Minister, there is the problem with regard to fugitives that we are now facing, to provide that the time during which the convicted fugitive is not counted on the total period of deprivation of civil rights and is added to it. As far as the final sentence is concerned, there is no provision in our legal system for the registration of a final sentence. The criminal record wants irrevocable. So, therefore, and because the final sentence may exist in the various national courts, you must see to it how this final sentence will come about. Will it be after a responsible statement from the candidate, will he get drunk and invent another way?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u200	You have to close down, Mr. Comrade. We've reached ten minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u201	I make specific remarks. I'm not talking about charts. I'm contributing. I understand, Madam President. I don't do it almost ever.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u202	I do not doubt, Mr Colleague, that you contribute, but you know that time is specific. You've already taken three more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u203	Just a minute, let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u204	You told me a minute ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u205	Also, Minister, other remarks: in relation to persons who are not entitled to participate if they have been convicted, we have to find arrangements, because these people can easily give up and do business at the critical moment by other bodies of the party, although their presence there marks the mark and means that it is such a criminal organisation or not. Of course there is the altera pars, which we know that there should be no interference within the parties. There's a limit. We cannot interfere and say exactly who will be in what position. I understand that very well. I highlight the concern.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u206	Mr. Colleague, don't embarrass me now. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u207	I have no comment except that the amendment restricting the financing of the party does not restrict it to the natural person. Let's see that, too. I would have a lot to contribute, but unfortunately I see that time is over. Thank you first of all for understanding, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u208	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Madam President. I do not believe that Mr Xanthopoulou and his colleagues in SYRIZA should complain. Twelve minutes instead of seven. Congratulations, contribute with your suggestions. We're here to hear them. This shows that we are open to democratic dialogue, that the House is working properly, without pressure, and sometimes we go beyond time, that is to say, the Members of Parliament from all sides, even though they have to add something useful, whether or not they are accepted. This is the tolerance and the beauty of democracy that we experience here. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been serving local government for twenty years. Before I was elected as a Member, I had the honour and joy of serving this beautiful institution. The first degree as a municipal councillor, but mainly the second degree, the presiding office of HSY with the late Theodoros Katrivanos, with the president of Phofi Gennamas, as president of HSY at the time. I've experienced, that is, and I've lived through his institution, his beauty, his difficulties from within. I can say today that self-government as a whole is one of the top democratic conquests of our country that we have been late as a political system, as a state to reach today's levels. We took her well, and we've reached a very good point. Because before self-government one deserves to remember - some younger people who do not know or who still remember it through narratives - how democratic planning and development took place in our country. It was the dark period for those years because this was how the socio-political system was operating in the country where MPs or ministers went down to their districts and through representatives they were going down, creating and building projects. That was the reality. We passed through the contributors of political fermentation. We went to democracy after 1974 and actually started through the fertile confrontation and the proposals that existed at that time and with the PASOK gradually forming a new environment, the new self-government landscape of democratic planning in the country through the prefectures which were donors at that time, through the mayors and municipalities that were too many at that time. We have spent periods of dispute, fermentation, claims and reached the present landscape with the municipalities distributed throughout the country, a specific geographical distribution, with the thirteen regions of the country. No one is questioning these figures anymore, and that is the pleasure of today's debate. Neither the SYRIZA side nor the KINAL side nor the other side challenged the geographical distribution of both the 1st and the 2nd degrees, and this is a very positive conquest. We are now coming to discuss an issue that I believe is topical. It is very vital for democracy and development. It is about the electoral system of the municipalities and regions. Since the morning sitting on the front line as a parliamentary representative I have followed the arguments in particular by SYRIZA colleagues. Trying to decode them, I'm coming to a description of two titles. Two things happen: In fact, SYRIZA with Law 4555/2018 attempted intentionally and emblem to undermine the Government of New Democracy, which was coming by slapping the institution of self-government and undermining the municipal authorities and municipalities that would be elected. That's a script. The other scenario is that Law 4555/2018, which amended the previous law on elections since 2010, Law 3852/2018, was an ideological political obsession or ideology. There's no more. Or one or the other. Or both. I, being well-qualified, accept that it was your ideological and political perception of electoral things, of local self-government, of municipalities and regions. Let's get that script. On the basis of this scenario, ladies and gentlemen, what is SYRIZA's argument today in consuming the time taken by his rapporteur and by the SYRIZA Members excellently? That in the way the government is proposing today, the new electoral system for municipalities and regions comes to manipulate, abolish democratic planning, distort popular will and a number of such thoughts and analyses. But let's see what it's like. In fact, what really happened after Law 4555/2018 and the elections of the government in 2019? Let's see what the reality is. I am elected in the Cyclades Prefecture, a beautiful, blessed prefecture with many municipalities due to the island specificity that the election results have brought results to a level of votes and percentages which were essentially destructive, as they had seen at the time. Mayor, candidate combination with 48%. The two rival combinations 30% each and 22% the other. And it is elected 30% compared with 48%. Other case: 45% the first combination, 30% the second, 25% the third. The combination with 30% is elected in the second round. And I ask: is that a popular will? Does this indicate that there were agreements over the table and not men, as you accuse us that they will now be noted, which came very nice and agreed 48% not to govern the local society and to rule 30%? Is this the democratic programming that SYRIZA defends today? Take note, ladies and gentlemen, what would have happened if the non-sex had not taken the elections in 2019, New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis. I would like to open a parable to say that it has its political value and importance. What we are trying today is nothing new, nor is it suddenly coming. It is the result of our election commitment. We said quite clearly in the House when you brought the law in 2018 that we would change it. So we are entirely consistent with both the electorate and society and local government. Second, we brought it two years ahead. We're not surprised. We're not on the eve of municipal elections to bring the law. We've brought him two years ahead so that everyone who wants to deal with local government has a clean electoral landscape, clean rules, how they go with their orders and their proposals. That's the reality. So let's go see if the non-sex hadn't come out of the New Democracy, which immediately the first bill it brought was three amendments, Nos 4625/2019, Nos 4635/2019 and No 4623/2019. On the basis of the amendments and these amendments, we have given breath and relief so that mayors and municipal councils who have taken responsibility for the governance of local societies can decide. It was indeed a toning injection that was rewarded by all self-government and the first and second degrees. Because they were able to rule. Even in suffocating contexts, they were able to make decisions. I want to ask a question. Let him answer until tomorrow when we have the final vote on this law. Was there a provision in the law of SYRIZA if this maturity did not exist between municipal councils? If there is no agreement and political maturity, was there a arrangement whereby a mayor and a municipal authority would not be inseparable? How would the municipal budget be voted? With what powers, if there was no understanding? And who could by law here by your law ensure the city's technical program? Essentially with your own law, gentlemen of SYRIZA, there was total implosion, undermining, stagnation and inaction in the first and second degrees of self-government. And what does that mean? Quite simply for our citizens who hear from self-government 1 and 2 degrees is the important development pillar, the democratic level at which decisions are taken in close proximity, close to the citizen. It is the so-called principle of subsidiarity. It is where ideas and opinions are fermented in local problems and solutions are given. It's what we've changed decades now. This is what you have attempted either maliciously or well-meaningly, but with an idea of the election issue, to appease it. And thankfully, the new government of Mr Mitsotakis has been elected, which today we are doing, consistently, what we promised in the election. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the reality in which the electoral process for both I and II has evolved over the past few years. Today we come in a clear way to put our thoughts, our ideas and how we envision the self-government of tomorrow and the future. I'm opening a parentheses. I want to speak to the Minister, the dear friend of Maki Voridis, whom I congratulate, and to him and the government who are proposing this law with absolute consistency as we said and committed. The battle for self-government and more democracy is not something that is finite. It's a constant development. This means that the issues of self-government - and of grade 1 and grade 2 - either through funding or through competences will be a constant debate about the current and the country's tomorrow. It's not over. So we have an open field, the part of responsibilities and the funding of self-government, to see it constantly and constantly in line with the country's social and economic developments. But the vote must be closed. We have to have clear rules. And that is what we are bringing today, to end once and for all the framework under which the self-government representatives of our country will be elected. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] The question that arises is with what arguments you say that we are coming to manipulate the municipalities and the next combinations. So how do you know that the next combinations that will dominate the next elections will be prejudiced or placed in favour of the New Democracy and the Government? Are you giving us now, or are you telling us that you are going to lose? For us there is no defeat, only victory is brought by self-government. It is for us a commitment and implementation of our decision for many years not to complicate self-government, the combinations. Supports we don't give, my friend Yannis Loverdos said so. For years the issue of support and anointing has been abolished. They come to count on the suffering of proposals, ideas, better thoughts, competition of ideas and visions, the combinations and people freely choose their best representative either at mayor's level or at municipal councillor level. Isn't that the most beautiful function of democracy? Will the citizens not decide that in the forthcoming self-government elections? These principles, ladies and gentlemen, today we are doing things with the electoral law on self-government. It is a law which has received relief from the whole of self-government. And I carry my message on behalf of the Cyclades Prefecture. In their entirety, all municipal authorities, majority and minority, have accepted this electoral system. Why? Because it is a good democracy, which we all serve and want. But democracy without rulership is not a democracy. If it can't be tomorrow, the next day, the municipal authority decides to make democratic planning for the projects, for the development of the place, for the municipal council to make decisions on where the local society wants to go, then democracy suffers, is effectively undermined, is actually undermined. And because we want an unadulterated, uninformed, independent self-government, today we bring this law. It would be advisable for all sides of the House to vote for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr Brutsi. Good evening, good month and good summer. Mr Baraliacos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are coming to fulfil another important pre-election commitment of ours, while at the same time correcting an ongoing unorthodox SYRIZA in its way of administration and decision-making in local government. The model of mere analogy implemented by Law 4554/2018 managed to lead local government to complete inertia and lasting oligopoly, due to a distortion in the distribution of seats, municipal and regional councils. SYRIZA, in view of his upcoming defeat and the loss of his political ruptures in local government, preferred to put a time bomb on the foundations of the governance of municipalities and regions. Who is ultimately damaged by this short-sighted and ruthless persecuting choice and the so-called sensitivity of a simple-sensitive card? Of course, local elected rulers, who, instead of being able to apply their election programmes in an uninterrupted manner, solve problems immediately and contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of local communities, have been found in a peculiar hostage, often forced to make painful compromises and unauthorised concessions. Above all, the commander, the citizen of local societies, has been damaged. Instead of promoting decentralisation, decentralisation and orderly governance in local government, they imposed additional bureaucracy, greater suffering for citizens, more obstacles to the elected and service authorities of OTAs. It is for this reason that the regulations of this bill bring about a large section of development in local government. We are once again enabling the hereditaries to apply their political vision of their place and citizens to regain the fate of societies in their hands. We lift the deadlocks that have created the distortions of simple proportionality by legislating the tools to allow the municipalities and regions to be governed effectively and we move on to this reform not just before the elections, by strengthening public debate, but at politically neutral times, so that the agony of the self-government, which were trapped in the magnifying legislative choices of SYRIZA, can be heard with sorrow and pluralism. Besides, the bill was put into public consultation, bringing together thousands of comments and interventions that are urgently calling for changes in the previous law. We are now voting on concrete measures and innovations, which the Minister and the rapporteur of the New Democracy have produced in their speeches in detail. An irresponsible reality for the self-government world, which was a pre-election commitment of this government, ladies and gentlemen, is now being implemented. And let me make a brief reference to the amendment tabled today by Mr Vorides, who bravely and politically legislates self-evidently, in complete harmony with our constitutional order. It is a glorious field for us to reach consensus and consensus between Parliament's political forces to agree that it is against our political system to be allowed to convicted, with a final judgment on serious criminal offences, to continue to represent their parties without any consequence whatsoever. It is a matter of political and moral order and demonstrates the determination of the leadership of the Ministry of Interior. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are closing a wound to local government and unleashing its creative powers for the prospect of local societies. We give the incentive to young people not only to deal with the commons of their place, but also to implement their vision for the next day on issues that concern them and affect them directly. That is the real content of self-government, and it is our duty to constantly strengthen both its best function and its effectiveness. It is the weapon to avoid the depopulation of the region and to halt the abandonment of the countryside. I warmly congratulate Minister Maki Voridis and the Ministry's leadership. I invite you all to vote in favour of this draft law so that the proper functioning and regularity of local government will return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u212	Thank you too for keeping time. Mr Michael Katrinis is called in Stepma by Elias Prefecture and the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Amid triumphant announcements from the government as a whole about the hundreds of instalments that will be ransoming the 245 billion private debt - and I hope that all that is being said today will be vindicated, but I fear that it is nothing but theoretical - we are discussing a bill that is being used to change the electoral system in local government. But before I speak about the substance of the bill, let me compare the logic and strategy of different governments over the last decade for the organization of the state and of self-government. The PASOK in 2010 with the "KALIKRATI" first built a self-government, strengthened, decentralised, with new responsibilities and anticipated the election of a elected regional government and then introduced the electoral system that served the model of self-government that was envisioned. Then SYRIZA voted for the simple analogue with the well-known results, lack of decision-making and huge, I would say, inexhaustible many times, problems in the administration of the municipalities, which New Democracy came in and after effectively abolished the municipal councils with emergency arrangements, it comes today and does not tell us what model of self-government it wants, it does not reform the institutional framework of selfgovernment, but it brings to the vote a bill dealing exclusively with the system of election of municipal and regional authorities. The Government of New Democracy, with a characteristic vote and a look at how it will 'clean' the next elections, therefore, brings a bill which does not incorporate the basic principles of the European Charter of Local Government and in any case marks a European orientation in this area. This is a new electoral law that considers it serves its narrow party interests without regard for both the institution and the institutional framework. There is a total absence of vision, planning for a system of self-government that is more modern, adapted to environmental change, but also to the new digital age that would enhance the overall functioning of the self-government authorities as a whole and the local communities certainly. It is lacking in clearing the responsibilities of central government on the one hand and self-government on the other, in accordance with Article 102 of the Constitution, as well as strengthening the institutional framework by conferring exclusive competences and transferring corresponding resources and personnel for welfare and social care, primary care, spatial and urban planning, pre-school education, employment and equal participation in ESDP programmes and other European programmes. Instead, ladies and gentlemen, we have to put ourselves in a draft law limited to strict and unjustified authority in the election of local and regional authorities. And all of this by a government which has announced both electorally and as a government its intention to move from the central state to multi-level so-called governance. In fact, the Prime Minister himself in his speech at the IGC in September 2020 promised a clearing of responsibilities between the central state, the decentralised administration, the regions and the municipalities through a bill that would come by the end of 2020 for multi-level governance. He has even set up a committee under Professor Contiadis with the participation of representatives of government and the proposals of this committee have never been exploited, since they have met - as far as we know - a strong reaction from your hard core. Why, ladies and gentlemen, 43% plus 1 and not 42% plus 1? Maybe so that it doesn't remind the law of Paulopoulos? We disagree vertically with anything less than 50% plus 1 on the mayor's appearance since the first Sunday. We disagree with the reduction of elected representatives in municipal, Community and regional councils. This is a reduction that undermines proportionality in representation in conjunction with the increase in offenders. We disagree from a position of principle with the sloppyness and disgrace with which the government treats communities without knowing exactly what it wants to do and what it wants to achieve. We are constantly listening to amendments and we have stopped measuring how many different versions of the same arrangement you have brought. The law would really be useful if it would regulate directly the responsibilities of local councils as well as the issue of resources with a substantial upgrading of the role and responsibilities of local councils, which is a permanent position and also a pursuit of the Change Movement. Because it does not seem important to us, but the essence, namely, how the role of elected institutions and communities can be upgraded so that they act as driving levers that will facilitate and speed up the overall municipal work. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make a special reference to Amendment No 910. First of all, such a serious issue of transparent management of public property cannot be submitted to an entirely irrelevant bill. You do so that the opposition is not mobilised and public opinion is not informed. And why are you doing this, gentlemen of the government? Because you do not want anyone, but no control by the 'annoying': the opposition to the House, the media, what is at least a resistance to public opinion. Why are you doing this? You do it because you want to do business, gentlemen of the government. There's no other reason. You have put yourself in the eye, you and the businessmen you represent, all the assets of the public property for which the Greek people have "blowed" to develop as well as to sustain. I do not know if you have the agreement of the European Commission. However, we in the Change Movement will closely monitor all your actions, because we will not let the property of the Greek people become a dowry for your chosen ones, since for the first time you allow the Supreme Court to change the time periods of the GOI without control of the State through Parliament, all control over the fund is abolished, since until now the important corporate governance parameters have changed only by legislation, which you are abolishing, while the new structure encourages external interventions of the fund and its property. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of confronting the centralist nature of the state, the government loses another valuable opportunity to give self-government a new impetus. Instead of decentralising political and economic power with a number of necessary divisions, it is exhausted in another electoral law that is simply offered to come to change it the next ruling party at the expense of citizens and local communities. Instead of unleashing forces that will deal with chronic functions, it is limited to arrangements that serve short-sighted logic and micro-political purposes. The "liberal" New Democracy does not believe in the independence of institutions and self-government, but in a powerful centre of power that has in an instantly baptismal state. The New Democracy does not consider self-government an essential part and pillar of the system of democratic governance to be self-evident resources and responsibilities. Instead, we believe in modern governance systems where control and institutional balance are components of the orderly functioning of institutions and based on these principles we will continue to work towards more decentralisation, stronger self-government, greater efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr. Katrin. Mr Athanasios Ljupis from New Democracy is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, local authorities are a structural expression of public administration which is intended to respond directly to issues relating to local communities. Law 4555/2018 of the previous government, which established a form of mere proportional to the way in which the OTA authorities were made known, brought many municipalities and regions to the limits of government. Generally speaking, this is a change that failed and caused serious impotence to the action of local government. In order to avoid the absolute inappropriateness of the Government in 19 directly ensured by legislation that the majority of the decisions needed are taken in the Economic Committees. Today is the next step, which restores the proper functioning of municipalities and regions, as a general requirement of the world of self-government. The number of members of the municipal and regional councils shall be reduced to serve the real needs based on the population of each region. However, there is provision for a larger number of councillors for municipalities with a population of 10,000 to 150,000, according to the Minister's draft legislature, since they include more than six municipal units. The term of office for the mayors is increased from 4 to 5 years, so that they have a longer horizon for the implementation of their programme. One of the biggest changes in the bill is that it is elected mayor and district ruler since the first Sunday, as long as it ensures more than 43% of the valid lists. This percentage was not chosen at random, since it has been legally deemed to be constitutional and in accordance with the principle of proportionality. The most important contribution of the draft law is to secure a majority on the municipal and regional council. The JRC and the HRC described at committee stage the serious tide in which many TA administrations were found because of the mere analogy. With today's provisions, the first set of votes takes up three-fifths of all seats on the municipal or regional council after having received up to 60% in the first vote. From that point of view, the distribution shall be carried out in a proportionate manner. At the same time, the 3% rate that a combination should receive is set to be represented on the municipal or regional council, a limit that is considered reasonable as it is already applicable to the parliamentary elections and is widely accepted in order to have a place on the decisive bodies and to have an official political say. In communities with more than 301 inhabitants the combination of the successful mayor takes 3/5 of the seats, ensuring the best possible cooperation between the municipal authority and the largest municipal communities. In small communities with fewer than 300 community presidents, the first crosses of preference are elected regardless of combination. The amendment by the Ministry of Interior concerning the extension of contracts for cleaning staff in schools by the end of the teaching year is important. The amendment on particularly deceptive offences of the Criminal Code, such as insults of the democratic constitution, offences of the country's territorial integrity, criminal organisation, is also necessary. Those who have been convicted of the criminal offences described cannot be final party officials in the parliamentary elections, while any private funding to such parties is forbidden. It is also important that the legislative improvements announced earlier by Mr Petsas, which were the result of a fruitful debate in the committees, are also important. There is an increase in the number of municipal councillors from what was originally predicted in municipalities of up to 150,000 inhabitants, as well as in regional councillors depending on the population of the regions. For the local councils, there is also a legislative improvement for the regional municipalities of Attica and the islands, as well as for blocks of election. On the front of the pandemic, it is crucial for European data that the adoption of the proposal by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis for the CIVID digital green certificate -19 that is now being implemented throughout Europe. Our country is one of the first countries in Europe to activate it. In conclusion, I would like to say that the account of the mere analogous, however attractive it may sound, does not necessarily lead - because it is extremely complex - to the absolute indication of the will of the citizens. The current process makes it extremely difficult to implement the election programme of the first combination, and this alone is a blow to the democratically elected leadership. Local authorities can drastically change the form and level of the daily lives of citizens, but local authorities in Greece have not gained their independent role. Greece is in the last positions of the European Union in relation to the level of autonomy of local government. The EFFs participate in public expenditure of only 7% compared with 34% which is the European average. The Government seeks to strengthen the role of local government through the Antonis Tritsis and the National Recovery Plan for municipalities and regions, with more than 5.5 billion euros. At the same time, the government has made it clear that it will transfer the collection of HICP to local government, in a great effort to increase the resources and responsibilities of Ottawa. The aim of decentralisation will bring great benefits to economic growth. It is more easy to implement innovative actions at local level where there is greater flexibility and the use of new technologies. In the Region of Thessaly, the Municipality of Trikkaion is the most characteristic example of how local government can be a core of leadership and development. In Magnesia, the Municipality of Volos has distinguished itself for actions in relation to sustainable mobility. Multi-level governance is the next major objective of the Ministry of Interior that aims to solve the problems of overlapping competences and bureaucracy. The definition of responsibilities between central, self-government and decentralised administration will drastically change how the administration operates for the benefit of citizens. The gaze is on a new era for the public administration in Greece, which will go on the basis of the needs of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr Lippe. We're going to Evros to Mrs. Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I wish everyone and everyone a good month. As of 1 June, the new Banking Code was fully implemented, which frees all the auctions of real estate, even the first residence, which has no longer received any protection. Thousands of debtors, natural persons, traders and professionals are going bankrupt by concise procedures now. It would be interesting, ladies and gentlemen, to see whether the New Democracy Party will be resorting to the benevolent, as its members say, the bankruptcy code because the debts of its party have recently increased very much. Are we going to see these provisions applied there? Are we going to watch real estate auctions? At the same time, pandemic threatens us, unemployment is scoring, the economy collapses, businesses are threatened with "lukelet" and society is feeling insecurity in all areas. However, the government does not prioritise the needs of society, it does not respond to its problems, but it is urgent to change the electoral system in local government. Not only did you rally the implementation for the development of the simple analogy that had been legislated with the previous government, not only did you block the operation of the municipalities, since from the first moment you removed resources and important tools, not only have you abolished progressive democratic reforms brought about by the reform of the 'CLISTEN', but you are coming today to abolish the simple analogue. You create a centralised system, which primarily promotes opacity, reduces accountability, a fully controlled and dominating system, a system that aims to recycle primarily party executives, a system that reduces democracy, reduces the representation of citizens, does not actually allow self-government to breathe and operate with self-interest and with independence. In the difficult situation today, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are not interested in discussing the allocation of competences. You are not interested in discussing the strengthening of the municipalities with necessary staff, with resources, with equipment. We are not even talking about strengthening the social services of local government in order to support these services, stand by the citizens of the municipalities in need. On the contrary, in this difficult time you have arranged to freeze recruitment, freeze competitions, but also to abolish the program "Philodimos", the most functional, transparent, objective and effective tool for the municipalities, which all municipalities had exploited and embraced. With seventeen months late, Minister, the municipalities expected the promising program "Antonis Tritsis", but finally the Ministry of Interior announced that the money is not enough and thus set a motto per beneficiary in a project budget, forced choice with the exclusion of works due to the wall and the logic of customer relations, service relationships for non-planned proposals as it is a personal decision of the Minister for what work will be financed, approved and incorporated, unfortunately, many decades back. Another crime, however, was the abolition of the possibility for local communities to manage a small, but their own fund. It was an initiative that had given many opportunities to involve citizens with their community, gave immediate and easy solutions to everyday problems, gave local communities flexibility. You know, Minister, the legislation you have brought lately betrayed that you have no idea what is happening in the region, you do not know the problems, you do not know the needs of our towns, you do not know the needs of our villages and fellow citizens. Legislation by closed offices without understanding the effects of the laws you bring. Do you know that there are municipalities covering vast areas, that have in their hands forty and fifty villages with little one to two machines, huge staff shortages and inability to meet the needs of local communities? And what's your answer? Concentration of responsibilities on a mayor? And what do you say to local communities? To cut the grass or change a lamp enter the queue, sometime the turn of your own village will arrive. Minister, you have removed every creative opportunity from local councils, you have tied them up, they have actually become only carriers of complaints and problems to the mayor or the mayor without being able to intervene in their local community. Is that your concern for the region, for decentralisation, as you say, for life in island rural areas, for the inhabitants of the outermost regions? What development do you only make in your verbal announcements? What's the answer to everyday problems? Is this legislation the answer to these needs? Of course, it is not enough to remove the funds and the management of this fund you are now coming to abolish a democratic reform of the previous government, a reform of this same way of electing local councils from a third poll independent of the central ballots. It was indeed an incision and it appeared in the results because it involved schemes characterized by self-government interest, by creativity, by love and action for the community and by improving everyday life in it. It was an initiative that gave vitals to our villages and cities, an initiative that was mainly embraced by young people. You are now abolishing the possibility of separate ballots, you are making provision for the counting of the central ballot of the candidate mayors by substantially increasing party control. Return to maintenance again, as you classify. Amongst other things, with this draft law the election of a mayor or a regional mayor will take place with the arbitrary 43% without any popular legitimacy of 50+1% with the winner automatically guaranteeing the 3/5 seats. At the same time, the number of members of the boards is reduced, 3% is introduced as a minimum of election and representation in the councils with a view to effectively excluding small self-government schemes. At the same time, however, you are increasing the number of candidates on the lists, increasing the minimum participation threshold in each ballot, while attempting to increase the paradox of nomination on the board to 80 euros. At the moment, you've frozen it, you've withdrawn it. You are visioning and legislating a blocking system that favours party formations, elites, local players and people with economic potential. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, unfortunately you have an allergy to pluralism and democratic representation. You have allergy to the autonomous operation of self-government and to independent schemes that are interested and work unselfishly and creatively for their place. Most of all, however, you have allergy and discourage the participation of young people in the public. After you have excluded them from tertiary education, after you have removed them from working rights, you will pay them off, as the Minister responsible said, since you create a new wave of Brain-Drain and Immigration abroad you are prevented through independent, non-party creative collectives to contribute to the functioning of their community, the very quality of their lives, their place. Because the only thing you are interested in, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is the perfect and authoritarian control of every system, every structure, every institution, is the party manipulation of local self-government, the limitation of democracy and the exclusion of creative, different voices and reasoning. After all, Mr Minister, he has confessed to it in your statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Gara. Back to the Magnesia Prefecture again the curtain of the fifth circle of speakers will be opened by Christos Boukos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Look. It avoids reasonable criticism from a Response to the claim that local communities had responsibilities and that they had no.4555/18. None of their responsibilities were and are well known. Minister, you are tabling a bill today that really aims at the functionality of the municipalities of the country, the cybernicality of the country's municipalities. It is not possible to elect a government with 37%, 38% and to demand a majority election on the municipal council 50 plus 1%. So when the electoral systems of the national elections give us self-government governments with 37.4% of the current political system we cannot lead municipalities to power. Of course, it is well known that normalities do not like SYRIZA, and local government was a normality in which the previous government had not been able to have a fingerprint, today Census Anti-Civilization and since it could not control the municipalities brought Law 4555 to create a malfunction, "blahloo". The law that we are going to vote on today really has a stability both with the five-year term of mayors and with the three-fifths of municipal councillors elected by the mayor, but also with a number of other provisions, such as the 3% requirement for entry into the municipal council, so that we do not see extreme minorities creating tensions rather than creating productive dialogue within the municipal councils and we have seen many examples of these in many municipalities in the country. We have said that Civic Opposition may be what it is, but this is what the government is today, that is, normality, progress and advancement. Minister, you have changed for the communities of less than three hundred and the majority of consultants will be elected there and you have done very well. There has been no change, as several Members of Parliament have requested, in the communities of over three hundred. First of all, I would like to say that this is more theoretical because it is not possible to elect a mayor if he does not have the majority in a large number of communities and even of the largest municipal communities in the city. But there are municipalities - and this is also the Municipality of Volos - where more than 85% of the electorate resides in the city centre. In such cases, what we are all abstaining may be the case, that is to say, elected president of the local community, someone in the village, in the community took a very small percentage. And I'm saying it's theoretical, because the fermentation will also exist through the cyberdynamicity that the bill gives. We, the regional parliamentarians, have a different approach. And because I know that you have arguments and you are a fan of dialectics, Mr. Minister, I tell you that there are certain communities - I am thinking of the Makrinitsa of Magnesia, the Nymphol of Florina, the Papigo of Ioannina, the Oia of Santorini - the so-called Greek communities, which are not all over the three hundred inhabitants. Some of them have created a cultural reserve and an institutional memory of administration quite different from the rest of the communities. So if we are to be obscure in one of these communities, there may be malfunctions. Of course, the system will be tested in practice and the major brought by this law is governance, stability and development in the municipalities. And that makes us support with arguments the bill you are tabling, Minister. However, we also need the different approach to present it, not for any other reason, but for it to be judged by history and by the application of the law itself. I would therefore say, by completing this approach, that it is a law that you cannot say many negative things about, ladies and gentlemen. Because under the law of SYRIZA, Law No. 4555/18, we had mayors who took the first round 49.8% to 49.9% and could not implement the programme for which they were voted on. Only the mayors who took from the first round a clear majority could. And you know the necessary consents didn't come because you had taken care of this basic provision to allow entry to the municipal councils and forces representing 1% or 1.5%. These were forces that offered no consensus. They wanted to offer only tensions, we know that. They've been documented...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u220	They've been voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u221	Don't interrupt him, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Comrade, I said it at first. You're in the Chamber now. You don't like any regularity. Your executives have said so. You don't like regularity, the mess you like and you create it every chance. This is what you have tried to do in local government, but you have found assembled forces toward you. The vast majority of the mayors and all the districts in the last elections - they cannot hide that - were related ideologically to our side. And if the difference was opened and controlled by all the municipalities on our side, don't doubt that your legal construction, n.4555 played its part in it. Therefore, Minister, we support our bill. We have noted this issue for communities over three hundred inhabitants, and we really wish, because self-government is indeed the first cell of our democracy, this law to prove everyone's functionality, because local government has a future and plays an important role in the daily lives of citizens and in local development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u223	Thank you too, Mr. Buquoir. Thank you for keeping time and so we must, so that we can get the program out. Mr Alexandros Aylonitis has the floor from SYRIZA and the beautiful Corfu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. If we believe Mr.Ploris's opinion, if we believe Mr.Boukokouros's opinion - I imagine other Members of the New Democracy would say so - then Alexis Tsipras, about August 2018, called on them and said "we have to vote on a piece of legislation, since we will lose the elections that are coming and we will make them a mess in local government". Poirot, Mr. Plearis, Mr. Boukokouros, who just came down from the Step. But can you claim such things? On the other hand, what did Mr. Brutsi say? That he doesn't believe that script. He thinks we're ideological. Didn't you ever think that we might be democrats, that we defend the Constitution of our country, where all Greeks are equal to the law and that my vote is equal to the vote of any Greek citizen? That's not what you thought, is it? Well, of course you didn't think about it because it's impressive your allergy to the basic principles of democracy, to the basic constitutional rules. It's the same DNA as your paradigm. It's your ID. That is my view, and that is the answer. A lot of democracy hurts you. Mostly it hurts you what the people vote to have a match to their electorate. Away from that, of course! Therefore, even before this good institutional change in SYRIZA is tested in practice, by voting for simple proportional to local government, you have cut it in the first few months of your government. Apart from your clear political motives, my opinion is that your reaction is also psychiatric. Ladies and gentlemen, let us try this piece of legislation, see there will be consents, partnerships, etc. and where there were mistakes and shortcomings to legislate. But you have found these unfounded arguments. But before I say my views on the bill, which I imagine anyone can understand from my predecessor, it would be contrary to the work I have done for so many years as a lawyer, not to mention the increase, quantitative and qualitative, of crime, Minister. The murder in Sepulia, the murders that happen every day, which are added, don't you see that we're being shown to change crime qualitatively and quantitatively, Mr. Voridis, my dear colleague? I even met you in Corfu and we paid particular attention to you. It's an important question. Can't you see that they're increasing their ashtray crimes and quality traits? You see them very well, but from the very first moment you became a government, what you electorally supported is that we want a strong, orderly and secure state, "class and moral" said by my forgived acquaintance, the Auslonite in a film. The order and morality you impose on her where? At the universities, at the walkways? You have announced the recruitment of the police for the universities. You're enforcing her in Exarchia? I'm telling you, crime isn't there. That's low crime. There are no such arduous criminals in the protests of citizens and workers. But there, you insist. You have failed, my dear, as you have failed in my view and in the area of tourism. I'm coming from Corfu. My colleague, Mr. Gikas from New Democracy, has congratulated your government for building a vaccination centre. What "atathajum" has fallen, what pride, congratulations for twenty days that will work! But it's a state obligation, Mr. Voridis. It's the state's obligation to inoculate citizens. Is it possible for this vaccination centre, 20 days in operation, to have such a lick? Excuse me for the expression. I address the Greek people. But aren't we ashamed? I went to see it myself yesterday, to enjoy it, because I agree to build a vaccination center. And they didn't leave me, not your government, the local parties. We didn't even get invited to the big vaccination center. That's not things. Tourism hurts. The confrontation between tourist destinations is the image of a safe country. And we still haven't acquired it, and especially in my own country, the problem is very big. I'm just finishing up here so I can get in the bill. The first question about the bill - which everyone around there spins - is simply proportional or reinforced proportional? The enhanced analogue is a system that has been tested. She has exhausted the limits of her capabilities. It is far from the essence of democracy, far from the widening scope of popular vote. To what extent - I wonder - has it promoted refreshing local self-government? What level has it contributed to cultivating the culture of partnerships? What state of active participation has involved civil society and how has it contributed to the inertia and smuggling of public money? The simple analogue is exactly what the democratic citizens used to say: Unholy. Because it gives space to pluralism of ideas and positions, because it enables all citizens to have expression. I'll tell you what it's worth. I've borrowed Mayor. Nearly 80% to 85% and in many cases, the municipal council decisions were unanimous. We, this democratic people cannot in small local communities adopt this key issue, which shows political, social and local representatives to cooperate and solve such problems? Why are you so allergic, so allergic, in simple logic? Honestly, it makes me very impressed. Same for 3%. Why does 2.99% have the right to speak the same thing on a local municipal council? Why? Is he running the place? This obsession - it is precisely what has been said before and which you are putting it to us - is the ideological approach to considering that, within the institution of local government, the letter and the spirit of the Constitution on equality of citizens must not be applied in the realm of equality of vote, on equal terms for every citizen to be elected within the institutions that he elects. I shall end with this, although I should like to stress this point further. But, unfortunately, time doesn't take me. A few days ago Mr. Mitsotakis described the government of SYRIZA as a dark break. It's a dark break! And one of you didn't stand up - let him be your Chief - disagree. Dark break is the Greek people's government, which was voted on by the Greek people, which today has 32%? Aren't we ashamed to be called democrats? I will tell you by closing my position that a dark break for local government is the adoption of this law. And you'll see it and wash it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, too. Mr Georgios Amanatidis of the New Democracy, who is elected in Kozani, is called in Vima.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, thank you for your time. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in order to understand the importance of the provisions in this draft law, we must first ask ourselves and answer the following questions: do we want self-government which only deals with everyday, current or self-government development? A self-government that highlights the potential and prospects and takes rapid decisions or decides to be the product of compromises and ultimately does not meet the requirement, which is also a local objective? How can arithmetic correlations eventually alter the will of the electorate? And don't tell me, ladies and gentlemen, that in the previous period you have not been witnessed and received complaints from mayors and districts, which have come from the way in which these institutions are run. In order for local and regional authorities to be able to do their job, however, they should be able to make decisions on the basis of the majority of citizens' preferences. The final recipient is always the citizen. The institutions are a means of serving the interests of the citizens. All of us must be a more functional and more effective self-government. This very goal is to serve the present draft law, which is abrupt to serious problems and malfunctions brought about by Law 4555/2018, "CLISTEN I", or known as the Skourletis Law. The implementation of the so-called mere analogous to the distribution of the seats of the municipal and regional council in the way it was implemented and institutionalised created more obstacles to local governance than its initiators were saying would resolve, after preventing elected mayors and regional mayors from exercising the policy for which they were voted on by the electorate. A regime of some insolence in many cases, including in the municipalities and regions, has also described the bodies called for a hearing, which have spoken of serious delays in decision-making and the absence of a structured, consistent and useful opposition function. The words of the President of the CEDEFOP, Mr Papastergiou, are very characteristic at the hearing of the bodies on this subject. In practical terms, the problem that the government is facing and for which the government is today legislating is precisely the disharmony between the will of the electorate and the composition of the organs of local government brought about by No 4555/2018. It was heard by the opposition that the time that the draft law comes to the vote hides despicability. On the other hand, I cannot understand that thinking, it is not based on any real fact. I could hardly say that it comes at a very decisive moment, about two years before the next elections. But what changes does this draft law bring? First of all, we have heard the criticism earlier than colleagues that SYRIZA has put back the logic of the distribution of seats in place before 2019. In this way governmentality returns to the municipalities and regions of the country, it favours the consistent implementation of the programme speech of the mayors and districts in favour of their citizens. The existing problems under the previous law have, as you know, been dealt with by regulations that strengthened the role of economic committees, municipalities or regions. When this was done, the government was judged for it and for the amendments it made. But, before noon, we heard that "after problems have been solved with these regulations, why are you coming back now in the form of the law and its arrangements?" It is therefore clear that there is a specific strategy on our part, which should be resolved in a consistent way and not emblematicly and compulsoryly, as has been done, for the future. The draft law, in short, restores the five-year term, adjusts the voting limit, as colleagues have said earlier, to 43% plus one vote. There is no question of unconstitutionalism, which has been raised by many colleagues, and there are no objections to anti-democraticism. The 3% threshold is set. We have heard criticism of this. However, it cannot apply to parliamentary elections and does not apply to local government elections. It ensures that three fifths of the members of the board are elected to the winner of the election in order to be governed, so that rapid decisions are taken and that there is always a recommended proposal to which these decisions should be led. It is planned to elect councils - and the previous ones have said - for the three hundred inhabitants in which the majority of the Community adviser is also a president of the municipal community. The number of members of municipal and regional councils and municipal community councils is determined on the basis of specific population scales. There is, of course, a slogan, and I would say, a reduction in the number of members, with the aim of rationalising, without creating a problem with the smooth functioning of the Ottawas. The issue is the climate prevailing on a municipal or regional council, the pluralism of opinions and not necessarily the number of those involved. It rationalizes the frame of obstructions of election and the incompatibilities, becomes more stringent and is in the right direction. It is regulated and provided that the elected regional director during his term of office is to suspend his professional activity. Let us say that this draft law is the product of an exhaustive dialogue. The views of the institutionalised bodies of self-government have been heard, and in fact, at noon we heard the legislative improvements, which really show how the government works, where it needs to operate multi-collectually, and when it is necessary and there are predictions that are really in line with the spirit of the legislator, are accepted. That's what happened today. After all, both HSY and the CEDEFOP have expressed themselves positively for this draft law and it is unfair to say that they were expressed in this way because, as has been said, they are in the New Democracy. To close slowly, I would like to say that, while respecting the express electoral commitment of Mr Mitsotakis, the government is moving forward in the functioning of self-government, since its proper functioning is a function of democracy, the functioning of self-government reflects what we call local democracy. So the present government has focused self-government. We believe that Organisations I and II of the Degree of Local Government will have an important role to play in the new programming period, in a regime where there will be significant resources, as the Minister has said, and these resources should be developed as soon as possible in useful, productive, development work. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law gives answers to the questions that I have raised from the outset about what self-government we want and also gives a solution to the problem of governance that has arisen over the last two years. The restoration of the well-functioning functioning of local government bodies, grades 1 and 2, and the fulfilment of their mission for the benefit of local communities serves our vision. What is it? It is a vision of a modern local government that will act as a strong pillar of development and social cohesion. Minister, you have created a useful tool. In fact, you have pushed for efficiency that both our country and our regions so need. After all, the role of self-government, as I said earlier, will be a producer of development, a mechanism that will shape the future of our country and our regions, and in the future this should be actively involved with all its powers. With these considerations, I am voting in favour of this draft law, and I call on those who are present or not in the Chamber to reassess their views and to stand positively against its arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, too. We're going to the Change Movement and Mr. Harry Castanides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u228	Ladies and gentlemen, I am one of those who believe that the electoral system that applied to the elections in 2019 should be changed. But change had to be prudent in favour of local societies and in favour of the principles of local autonomy, which is not done with the draft law introduced by the government. I will present the arrangements for the bill, so that the Greek citizens can watch better, too, which will give us the pleasure of listening to us, with some examples. A municipal or regional combination in the first round of elections achieves 44%. The second combined force achieves 43.5%. According to the government's regulations, 0.5% of the difference is in favour of the first combination and will take the 3/5 of municipal councillors as a loot, despite the fact that the second combination exceeded the minimum self-responsibility laid down in the bill. At the same time, in the same election campaign, in another region, the first and second combinations in the first round achieve an absolute equalisation of 40%, below the minimum set by the government. With 40% the two combinations will go to the second round to be judged in the next election. So two combinations with 40% are entitled to go to the second round, but in our first example, the second combination that has 43.5% is excluded. At the same time, in the same election campaign, the first combination of municipal or regional achieves 25%. The second and third combinations are equal to 20%. All three combinations that move from 20% to 25% are entitled to be judged in the second round of the test. In our first example, however, the second combination of 43.5% cannot be passed in the second round. Is everything all right? Does the fact that we are in the presence of electoral or reasonable figures make any sense? We can accept them, provided that the government's objective is achieved. You will allow me to tell you, however, that I cannot exceed such reasonable and electoral posts. That is why the Change Movement rightly proposes to return to the rules of Law 3852, which provided that if in the first round no more than 50% is achieved, then the first two combinations will go through the second round of the election campaign. Absolutely reasonable. I have to tell you that if you look for examples in the latest elections for the Government, you will find such a thing that creates a kind of surprise to every reasonably thoughtful citizen. That is why I said that what the government is proposing is not in favour of local societies, of the necessary consensus, which, together with the principle of governance, operate in favour of the principles of local autonomy. Minister, I will not go into the criticism of other aspects of your electoral bill, for the simple reason that it has been formulated by other colleagues in the Change Movement and the time crisis is always a crisis. I will comment on your general amendment 909 concerning deprivation or regulation, if you wish, of the right to vote and stand as a candidate. I would like to point out that this is a positive initiative and that is why we will support it. Here I would like to remind you that, following the condemnation of the Golden Dawn, the first relevant bill of the Ministry of Interior concerning the law of nationality, the Change Movement was ready and tabled an amendment concerning the regulation or deprivation of the rights of the voter or the voter, but the government rejected it. That arrangement was more complete. I'll tell you what the problem is. There's an omission. I don't think it's appropriate. It may have escaped from the authors of this amendment. A party or a coalition of parties is denied the possibility of proclaiming combinations when the party's or party's coalition serves people who have been sentenced to serious crimes, such as crimes against the democratic population, even crimes against public order. But the combinations cannot be proclaimed, when only the specific persons condemned for insulting the democratic culture, the state power, the political bodies, the public order are serving in service. What's wrong with you? If a member of the Golden Dawn, who was convicted of participation and guidance of the criminal organisation, participates in a list of an existing party or a new-parent party and does not serve in a final position, then this is not a deterrent to declaring the party's combination or party coalition in this region. It's completely wrong. I would ask you until the end of the debate to see it and to include this possibility as well so that there is no open escape route. I conclude with one comment on Article 29 of the Constitution. As you know from Article 29 of the Constitution, it provides for the fundamental principle that legal parties must have statutes and ideas which do not reverse the free functioning of the democratic culture. If we had included in our electoral legislation in a timely manner an empowerment under Article 29 of the Constitution, that is to say, that the combinations of parties from the Marios Ice cannot be declared, which, obviously, from their statutes and declarations, seems to be capable of undermining the smooth functioning of the democratic culture, we would never have the Golden Dawn within the Greek Parliament. Henceforth, despite the fact that there are objections mainly due to the past, I think it would be useful to include in our electoral legislation now, on the basis of Amendment 909 and a general provision which does not allow for the proclamation of parties or parties coalitions which, obviously, by its statutes and declarations, seem to undermine or undermine the democratic city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Castanides. We're going to Flythias, Mr. George Kotroias, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a great deal these days and I think I should also put forward some of my own thoughts invoking my great self-government experience. Look, everyone has talked about consents, but they forget the basic one, perhaps because they have never exercised municipal power, namely that consents are created when there is a clear institutional landscape, clear rules, clear roles of mayor and opposition, which, with the current law, was unclear and foggy, which is now restored by this bill. I have heard fellow Members say that KLITHENIS applies the simple analogue, I have heard others claim that we did not let him in practice show his beneficial results for self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, it was neither proportional nor wrong. On the contrary, he escaped the mockery because he did not have time to show at all the chaos he brought to local government and the unpleasant in this story is that this chaos seems unfortunately to have been a conscious choice of SYRIZA, who, without self-government officials in society, wanted to give a leading role to the small minorities who are vastly represented in local communities. Well, I understand the party perspective. But it is outrageous not to see the drama of the municipalities and mayors that their citizens would be invited to account for after four years and they would be lost in balances with the rest of the combinations and to know little works and painless small interventions would have been agreed, because, because I have heard the old mayor from the SYRIZA say - there is only one in the current painless decisions. In large projects, however, those that change cities, those that create progress, those that are conceived obviously would not have been agreed. We all know that in the very large projects, minority groups find and emphasise something negative in order to frustrate them, so that the mayor is not positively judged in the next election. That's the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, if we agree that the elections are not just to record the political forces but are intended to govern the municipalities then in SYRIZA, they must ask why they insist on defending a pseudo-analogue system, a system that has led the municipalities to mathematically in government. Do they believe that the average Greek vote to enable the orders and formations to negotiate, to be chosen in an endless and incomplete process? The risk of all elections at all levels is always the same, that there is a shape capable of governing and implementing its programme to be judged for it in the next elections. If our Government did not directly correct it with fire-fighting modifications, the law of SYRIZA would have blown off local self-government in the air, creating a landscape of government, but if you want to slowly pass a culture of political transaction and extortion. This bill, essentially for me, highlights two things, first of all the realism and will of the New Democracy to have strong productive and independent municipalities in the country and secondly the great difference between New Democracy and Syriza, the great difference between Mitsotakis and Tsipras as the former wants an independent, creative and dynamic self-government, while the latter wants a self-government field of careless political ideas without any creative reflection. A comprehensive legal framework for the election of municipal and regional authorities is therefore established to ensure the proper and uninterrupted exercise of their duties, while local governance and the proper functioning of local government bodies is strengthened. In this context, the so-called simple proportional system is abolished in the distribution of the seats of the municipal and regional council and the possibility of efficient administration by elected mayors and regional directors is strengthened. Remind the monstrosities of "KLITHENHEN" Law 4555/2018 and the quick reflexes of the newly elected New Democracy government. Furthermore, we must not forget the policy of the New Democracy on local government that wants it flexible and effective, as shown by the strengthening of the economic committee that wants the ENPIA permanent resource and which will very soon bring draft law on multi-level governance, clarifying the responsibilities of each grade and of each body of the general government in order to promote the work effectively within society. The bill strengthens governance, because we believe it is the citizen first and the citizen wants it to happen. The New Democracy does not want the local government to be a poor relative of the state who will be beg for resources each time, as you know very well that the mayors have done so many years. It wants local selfgovernment a modern strong pillar of development and social cohesion. By focusing on the basic features of the new law, I would like to mention that five years are defined as a stable electoral cycle and that the elections which will take place on the second Sunday of October are being disconnected, that the limit of election from the first round is adjusted to 43% plus one vote, which is completely constitutional and correct. Why? What's happened so far? Other colleagues have said so. One who had taken 47% had two chances: Or on the second Sunday to scan and get 55%, say, but not to have the majority within the municipal council, or some other combinations that had 10%, 12%, 13% on the second Sunday to win the election, so obviously the will of the people who wanted from the first round mayor the one who had taken 47% is not satisfied. When a country can be governed by 43%, cannot self-government be governed? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President, I will be done if I have your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u231	You're welcome. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u232	I shall omit a few of them which have been heard by other colleagues. To sum up, this draft law, contrary to the problematic application of the previous system, which largely blocks the possibility of efficient administration to local authorities, gives tangible solutions. It provides solutions enabling elected mayors and regional governors to implement their programming positions with a view to producing results for the citizens who will judge the mayors and the mayors for their work at the end of their term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr. Kotroya. We're going to Kozani to SYRIZA and Mrs. Kallipe Vetta. Those who haven't heard her interpretations are losing. I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President, for your kind words. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the change of electoral law in local government is indicative once again of the priorities, guidelines and objectives promoted by the government at ideological and political level. The abolition of representativeness, pluralism and composition is a stable represented by the New Democracy with hard party lists, the support of selective and the manipulation of local societies. Instead of seeing local government as a cell of participation and democracy, it faces it as a feud and a trophy, as a field of central and ruthless political controversy. At the same time as its practices are in complete contrast with the international trends that give rise to proportionality and the diffusion of competences and the historical payments of local and Community councils in our country with increased competences and democratic functioning. What are the problems of the bill? I will summarise what is essential in order to understand our opposition. Firstly, in the name of cyberdynamics, provisions introduced 15 years ago by imposing the 43% limit that now guarantees three fifths of the seats. Instead of the simple analogue test in practice, we proceed to the majority bonus. No surprise. I would remind you that one of the first initiatives of the government was to demolition the powers of municipal councils by changing to the committees of economics and quality of life. The winner even if he has a relative majority takes it all. Secondly, you are moving towards a medium-term reduction in the number of council members in all regions in the middle and large municipalities, but also to the majority of municipal councils in particular in the large urban municipalities. The reduction of members, which will be about 15% to 20% despite the changes that you have brought today, shows your perception that the fewer involved, the better for the praisers and the experts. The third point of reflection and opposition is the imposition of the 3% entry limit. It is a direct ideological choice as minority voices will not be heard, pluralism will be shaken and the representativeness of voting goes for a walk. Fourthly, you are abolishing the third separate ballot for the Community Councils, while making the billing with the central ballots compulsory. The people on the front line who face problems daily must be in order to satisfy your own design to become cockspeakers and speakers of the most central management grades. This option will also lead small societies to aeration, as young people and young people will not find any incentive to engage in common. I say that just a few days ago, on 27 May, the Coordinating Committee of the Networks of the Communities of Greece called for the separate ballots to be retained to show the presidents and councils of communities by saying: "What motive do you give to active citizens when they can achieve a majority in the elections but not to be elected because they are not the selectors of the candidate's preference and recruitment?" While continuing it says: “What do we want after all? What will strengthen the unrestricted involvement of citizens in decision-making or that of the extraordinarily alignment?’. That's what the people of the basis of self-government support, but answers seem not getting. The way you legislate by way of derogation from all legality, even constitutional, is clearly reflected in Amendment 908/89, which says about arrangements for a metropolitan pole of Greek - St. Kosmas. Especially in the case of the Greeks, you have now made the amendments that constantly amend even your recent laws and regulations on property. In any unrelated bills, gifts and an amendment to the Greek with the exception of any other provision to facilitate the investor, but which, despite the continuous grace and photographic provisions, we are always listening and not seeing. Now under Article 7 of this amendment, on the one hand, you are legislating to demolish, by way of a decision of the Minister of Development again by way of derogation, buildings already decided and included in Law 4663/2020 as the holder of a civil aviation shed. On the one hand. On the other hand, you are taking another step, giving the Minister of Development himself the power to change the designation of preserved or demolished buildings, i.e. regardless of whether these are characterised as monuments or are covered by the protectionist provisions of Law 3028/2002. Needless to say, this is an extremely unconstitutional provision that is actually being circumvented by the archaeological law and, of course, opens the way to demolition and other preserved buildings on the plot of Greek. Is the fellow Commissioner responsible, and otherwise the Minister of Culture has anything to say about this provision? Or is it sufficient to shepherd the islands when they take their responsibilities as long as the government lets it continue its destructive work in our country’s culture? Ladies and gentlemen, legislation other than that sends a signal to society about what the vision of democracy, participatoryness and accountability is. The signal of today's bill is clear. Leave the compositions. Organize with your party party. Minority has no role, and only a reason. If you are in a small community, look for patrons, if you want to offer at your place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, Mr President, they are also sending out a signal that the government is doing everything it can at institutional level to end with the ideas of the Left, namely broad participation, consultation and composition, ideas for which both personally and politically you have a revulsion. However, society observes these things and sums them up in a number of undemocratic and authoritarian behaviors that you are displaying. Our promise is simple and clear, through an open, substantial dialogue with all the forces in the context of a comprehensive reform of strong democratic self-government, the electoral system established today by the New Democracy will change. Self-government will not remain too hostage to the New Democracy and its customer pursuits. And that's not a question of liquidation for us. It's a question of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Vetta. Mr. Khiridis Dimitrios from New Democracy, elected in the 2nd North Athens Sector, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a disappointment in our debate on a permanent pathogen of the parliamentary procedure. Some objections are raised by the opposition. That's her right. They are answered by the Ministers. Both 3% and 43% were responded to the committees and the Plenary Session. But it's raining. As if they do not listen to the answers, they repeat prefabricated speeches that do not go beyond the debate and they really do not help us sit down as adults and not as cassettes. I think that we need to look at this in order to raise the quality of our debate somehow. Questions are being asked to the opposition about how municipal councils currently operate. I guess they have a picture. Answers are not there. We must learn to listen before talking and to reply to what is set here and not prepared to come with chewed, ready-to-eat food. What are we doing with this bill? What's the government trying to do? I think it has been said. This is not a big reform. There are also reformist elements. The main thing, however, is that we are trying to secure a time bomb placed in local government. It's not the only bomb. Many of the bombs we have been called upon to secure these two years and indeed a pandemic. PPC, outstanding pensions and so much more, in education, in the Armed Forces and so on. So, Minister, you're a little reformer. Your basic work here is that of the pyrotechnician. You're a pyrotechnician, too. It's the intervention we're trying to do to secure this bomb that was laid on the foundations of local government. We're doing something else. We respond to the demands of local government itself. There is no mayor who I know - and I speak with too many not only in North Athens - who does not want to change the existing electoral system. Everybody. And we were told in committee by the institutions. At both institutional and individual level. Everyone's asking for it. Not only those from the wider New Democracy. And those who are close to you. And to us, in North Athens, in fourteen municipalities. Even this one in a large central city of North Athens, which in a cresento of radicalism raised the Palestinian flag recently, is in favour of changing the electoral system. Everybody. There is not one person I have spoken with who is pleased with the existing system. Let's make it clear something simple that we're learning in the first year of political science. Good, useful and critical to control and always important to make consensus. But before we check, before you agree, the main thing, the major one, is that we have to organise, form the political power before we check it. There has to be practicability. And the government before we enter the process of controlling or better and wider consensus. And that's the main problem in your electoral law. As we have said, the democratic process is defying because it leads to the hammering of local power. And whoever's been attending even a few municipal councils after 2019 -- I've got many examples -- he understands it. Don't hide behind our finger. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is going through a crisis today. All over the Western world. Where he was born and bloomed. We are in a race to protect it and strengthen it. In the face of the authoritarian regimes of the east, we must prove that, in the midst of a pandemic crisis, we can do as well or better than they can. The way is not the hammering of democracy. It's not about putting bombs on and not being governmental. In its central cell, which is the local government, SYRIZA with a micro-political target, to destroy what it cannot control, has critically affected local government by destroying the ability to rule. He did something else. He fooled. It is not just analogous to what you voted on. It's a forage system because we elect the mayor with a majority and the municipal council with a simple analogue. Let's have the guts chosen by the mayor from the city council with the widest consensus. But not to have one against the other. Mayors who have 10% of the municipal council cannot instantly form a majority so that they can govern. That's what you did. Yaladzie, you're all in it. But now I want to talk about a bigger fork. Because beyond the detonator, Mr. Pecha, we have to move forward with reform. To be clear here, everyone swears to local government, its function and its importance. In particular, the Left, which ends it in hypocrisy. But she's not the only one. For there to be local self-government, it is the merging of the municipalities. We built large municipalities, thirteen regions, large sizes. It is a necessary but not the only condition. They need their own resources. Local government needs to gain financial autonomy. Mayors should not be appalled by the state's power, by the central state, to have the responsibility of their actions as well. They must not be beggars, but be responsible and accountable for their policies. Here, too, we really need to move on to the necessary areas. We don't have to discover the wheel. Let us see what they do in western and northern Europe and the other developed countries in the world and put it in place. Everywhere in the world, property tax is a local tax. I understand the problem of what will happen with the degraded regions and we need to provide for a balance and redistribution mechanism. But we must take resources and give them self-government in order to make it accountable and accountable to the citizens. So, apart from a pyrotechnic teacher, I call on you, Minister, to move forward in this great reform, which will be a real incision. Why the easy words of all about local government - and you in SYRIZA and those who went to the centre-left of you - did little for the local government's own resources? We have the lowest percentage in the European Union today, and this is a major problem and a great hypocrisy for those who swear to local government but do not give it the means to be truly self-government and accountable to its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, too. As the information was made very early, I would reiterate that we will stop today at Barkas Constantine. We'll start tomorrow at 9:00. The first thing she's gonna talk about is Mrs. Silver Skondra. Now we are going to Corinth, to Maria - Helen Soulis - Vilialis of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us is an act of responsibility towards a structural pillar of the country's social and economic life. It is another step towards political stability. Because political stability in this case means creating the appropriate regulatory framework for more efficient administrative functioning of TAs so that the latter can become dynamic pillars of the development process. Today's bill beyond its own regulatory content, as our rapporteur has just said, is a clear sign of a change in strategic direction, which gives a clear response to the small designs of political turbulence that are indifferent to the blow they are causing to local government and of course to the whole country. Looking essentially at the need for convergence with international advanced standards of administrative reform and governance, where the objective of sustainable development is impossible to achieve without municipalities and regions serving this particular development model. And at this point is our difference with today's Civic Opposition, which sought as a government to impose and reproduce in the local communities a scary model of governance that in its construction philosophy the only prevailing parameter was and is participation in the prefecture of power in every way. This governance model has an identity and a clear political footprint. It has a code name SYRIZA - ANEL. Ladies and gentlemen, we certainly have no illusions. Simple analogue for SYRIZA is nothing but a simple political tool, so that at central and local level it climbs power, indifferent to the real results obtained in the field of policy, and especially to the results produced for citizens. This is what they have tried to do in our local societies too by recognising the lack of social acceptance of their proposals, but also of the people who represent them. In other words, they have decided to cause cracks in the administrative function of the OTAs if their non-functionality is an opportunity for the Left, which accepts - by paraphrasing Mrs Ahtsoglou - that normality is not her privileged field. It is reasonable, ladies and gentlemen, because regularity requires substantiated proposals, it requires a concrete and structured implementation plan, meaning unknown to the Civic Anti-Civilization. The result of this policy was to see events that have never been observed in the field of self-government. If we really intend to speak with the language of truth, we note that the law SYRIZA - ANEL created political monstrosity that I have really, thirteen years of dealing with self-government before I came here, I have never met. Mayors and hostage groups, of course trying to co-ordinate, most of the time not on criteria, even on the basis of converging schedules, but on the sole basis of personal pursuits, in order to achieve some rulership and the citizens in absolute verdigus do not understand what happened to their democratic choice. Ladies and gentlemen, we stand against all of this and choose the path of sustainable governance that translates into self-government I and II with the choice of a electoral law that allows for a smooth transition from the proposal, to choice and ultimately to implementation, of course by not preventing cooperation when they have real convergences rather than personal arrangements. The concept of sustainable governance is not a term neutral, political, or economic, or social. On the contrary, it has economic effects, it has social content and it also has a political footprint. It extends from the daily lives of citizens to the creation of a new model of economic activity, but also to the qualitative upgrading of the political process. And anyone who thinks that the functioning of OTAs is not included in this process that surrounds the concept of sustainable governance, really does not understand the modern development process. We must offer citizens a clear regulatory framework in order to exercise their democratic right and to choose transparently and the plan and the people who want for the future of their region, without gray zones and without dark alliances that do not protect the public interest. Therefore, yes, the sovereign provisions of the bill serve the basic principles of sustainable governance, and we take the absolute responsibility for promoting their legislation. Of course, my self-government experience does not allow me to delight in situations and to express the view that the operation of our municipalities and regions, even before the law of SYRIZA, was such as to allow them to act as accelerators of the development process. But I can assure you that your law, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, has completely worked out in any attempt to create the self-government authorities. There is still a lot of steps to go to achieve an effective model of sustainable governance in the OTAs, but I now believe that it is commonly accepted that local development has an important key to unlock the development opportunities that our country has. Therefore, today - and I end with this, Mr President - we give creative people the opportunity with a documented plan to implement their vision of which they were elected and to be evaluated for their efforts. This democracy demands that this country seeks to make progress on the path of prosperity and progress together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, too. Mr Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA and Arcadia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current bill on local government falls within the framework of the legislation initiated by the New Democracy, when it took over the governance of the country, on the cancellation - I would say demolition - of all those elements, which have given local government participatory and democratic character since 1974. This central pursuit of the New Democracy Government is served by the concentration of powers on the mayor's face, the weakening of municipal councils and the exclusion of society and organised citizens' bodies from what is alleged in local affairs. The centralised decision-making system which has already been set up is now being completed with the current bill. In the first phase, the main responsibilities were removed from the municipal regional councils and entrusted to the economic committee controlled by the mayor and the district manager. This reverses the Greek self-government acquis which is also founded on the European Charter of Local autonomy, according to which the main decision-making bodies are the collective bodies of selfgovernment, the municipal councils. Furthermore, under the pretext of pandemic, economic committees, with a given majority, are allowed to award millions, uncontrolled recruitment of temporary staff, to operate development agencies, to conclude programming contracts. This draft law introduces an over-optimistic electoral system which does not apply similarly in any European country. It is set 3% as an entry limit to the distribution of seats by preventing the representation of small local forces. This arrangement is to be added to the outrageous arrangement under which the mayor ensures 3/5 of all consultants. 43% of the mayor and the district mayor are elected and a maximum of 43% are awarded to 60% of the advisors. Without the popular legitimacy of 50% plus an institutionalised system of over-concentration, which gives unlimited powers to single-faced bodies, the mayor or the regional director, elected by a relevant majority. In addition, it is planned to reduce the number of members of municipal and regional consultants. This is why we are blocking the wider delegation. This reduction would be double-advised for regional consultants, since the regional councils cover large geographical units from different populations. The violation of the principle of democratic representation will lead to sub-representation of social groups on the regional councils. It reduces the number of consultants in all regions, as well as in the majority of communities, indicating a, I would say, oligarchy of the New Democracy Government: the fewer people are active in the public as well. On the contrary, the possible number of candidates is increasing. This combines the obligation of resignations to present candidates to 80% of municipal communities. This creates obstacles to exclude combinations of the elections. And all this is justified by the pretext for ‘governance’. ‘Governance’ is not a term of administrative science. It's a neologic that's been in the public dialogue lately. Apart from being "governable" is not the one that can govern, but the one that can be governed, "government" is a feature of the government rather than self-government. It concerns the exercise of government power and not the exercise of local affairs administration and management, which is linked to representativeness. However, 'government' without democracy, democratic procedures and representativeness is not meant, because in the end, in the name of 'governance', if we draw it to the extremes, we can lead to the very distant dark past, Mr Ministers, where cemetery silence prevailed. The abolition of the simple proportionally ignored minority groups, altered representation in the management bodies, circumvented the election of community councils, denounced groups and weakened municipal councils. On the issue of local communities in intra-democratic decentralisation, renamed in municipality, responsibilities and resources have already been removed from them, and today they are completely weakened by this bill to an extinction level, as well as by their self-evident functioning. So candidates are forced to tie to a municipal combination and to depend on the central effect of the municipalities and the municipal combinations. In the last municipal elections, the autonomous listings and the separate polling allowed thousands of citizens, new to local government, to engage in an inappropriate interest in their special homelands, villages, to participate actively in local affairs, to act successfully without necessarily attaching themselves to and subjecting to combinations of candidate mayors. With the new regulations, unfettered local government is abolished at community level. I am afraid that young and active citizens who express the will of local societies and will be able to unleash the fate of each region will be disappointed, inactivated and abstained. This is because, in municipal units with three hundred inhabitants and more, the municipality combination of the candidate elected mayor in the second round, even if he received fewer votes in these communities. It is about abolishing the principles of the equality of vote, the majority, the authentic expression of the popular will, the ruthless local government and, ultimately, democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill shows the oligarchy of the New Democracy Government and the New Democracy Party. The fewer and the more controlled parties, the better. Your intentions were, of course, known from the beginning. You confirm them and overload them: Concentration, centralised control and greater possible exclusion of citizens' participation. Unfortunately, the contents of the bill reflect the true will and approach of the Government of New Democracy in relation to democracy itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr. Papaliou. The sixth cycle of speakers will be opened by George Kotsos from Karditsa and New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing a structural pillar of our democracy, local government, the fighters of the front in the political scene, the political constituencies, the pioneers of public administration, the people who serve the citizen at the closest point, the mayors, the municipal councils, the presidents of municipal communities and the local councils, the people who are faced with the problems of everyday life and who are required to give immediate and rapid solutions. With these in mind, our government is moving on to today's bill, which, in essence, restores the authority of self-government in society and also in the political field. I heard a minority colleague move earlier than that from the first bill that we restored government power to local government, that we cut local government. Really, colleagues? Have you ever wondered if today's municipal authorities were to operate on the basis of the electoral system that you voted on today? And it's true that SYRIZA is being cut for consultation, it's being cut off from being fascinated by society. However, I would like to ask my fellow Members directly about those who remember when they voted for the relevant law of mere analogy, had they taken into account the opinion of the people who served local government, the people of the CEDEFOP? Let me remind you that at that time more than 90% of the CEDEFOP representatives were opposed to the bill, which you voted in favour of. Is that a rule of democracy? Is it a rule that shows you've heard the pulse of local government? And can I tell you something? You're cut off for the simple analogy. Do you remember through what electoral system did you vote for the simple analogue? Didn't you take advantage of the enhanced proportion on which you became government and voted for this bill? A lot of your word reference to this bill has to do with the consent you were supposed to trigger or attempt to trigger through the bill you voted on. What consensus are we talking about? For a consensus that develops before the elections, which is in citizens' knowledge and which supports programming statements, convergences, or a consensus and convergence that comes after the election result, with only a goal for the bazaar to make the sharing of the self-government clothing? You, however, are addicted to this part and learnt, because the cyberdynamicity you are currently cursing or renounced made sure that you have it as a government co-operating with a party mechanism that you ideologically had nothing to do with and that only aims to have power in our country. Is that what we want in self-government too? Do we want a self-government that depends on furniture, temporary, opportunistic or co-operation that will come behind the table? Take a look at what has happened with the law that you have voted on. After the elections, co-operations which only aimed at how we get the power or the administration of the municipality by sharing what? The fuses, the anti-governments, the economic committees. Whether there was programmatic convergence before the elections, if this programmatic convergence had passed through the people's will, you were not so interested. And you know local government is a very serious case to treat it as the general assembly of a building where we can discuss eternally, compose whatever views and never make a decision. Self-government means action, it means decision, it means function, and that's what the government comes to restore with today's bill. You're talking about a simple analogue. Have you considered how many systems have arisen from the mere analogy that you have voted for? Four. Another electoral system for the mayor who went on the second Sunday and did not come out of the majority of the first Sunday, because you wanted the bazaars, that was your goal. You didn't want the mayor to go out on the first Sunday so that the minorities could then take a majority position and get control of the municipality. Simple proportional to municipal councils, reinforced analogy to municipal communities, because the majority of the combination took the majority. And consider what happened with the presidents of the under three hundred inhabitants. That is not the simple analogue. It is not serious, it is not a concept of local self-government. But for us who used to enthusiastize in local government, we served her, we loved her, and especially we had a relationship of love with her, because you knew very well that your impact on local society is small, you had no margin to gain majority power and you were trying through these electoral tricks to turn minorities into majorities in order to get a role. That is why you have also broken up the cohesion and continuity of local government. Because primary selfgovernment is single, colleagues. It is no longer the mayor and the municipal council and local communities to be separate ballots. We are going down with single programmes, with a single platform in society, calling for the vote that we are going to implement, the vote that the people will give us from the level of the first democratic cell that the community is up to the level of the mayor. That is why it is very right, Minister, to do and make a single vote, because it is unified, and that is how it has to work. If you want here to note my objection. It is about the fact that in the local councils the majority of the combination in the village should be the president of the village. There, in fact, for the presidents, who believe in particular in the municipalities made up of many municipal communities, the local councils play a major role, they serve the local society not only at the level of administration, not only at the level of the administration, and the postman becomes the postman, often becomes the plumber, who serves the citizen and who, as a rule, is old. In conclusion, I should like to congratulate the Ministry of Interior on the very serious and important funding that is now going to local government. I served twenty-one years local government. Such money, my dear Minister, has never seen my eyes toward local government. Well done for you, because it is the most important tool for local government to be able to stand up to the circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Minister of Interior, the Vice-President of the Government, the Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, the Protection of Citizens, Education and Religious Affairs, Work and Social Affairs, Health, Justice, Home Affairs, Maritime and Island Policy, the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Home Affairs, as well as the Deputy Ministers to the Prime Minister and Civil Protection have now deposited, 1-6-2020, a draft law: 'Institutional framework for teleworking, provisions on the human potential of the public sector and other arrangements of the Ministry of Interior'. Thessaloniki, Mrs Katerina Notopoulou, is called in Stepma by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, at any time you have been in power rather than upgrade local government, all you have tried to do is reduce it over time by altering the will of the citizens, but also the decisions of local communities. You change the electoral systems like shirts to find out which is the most efficiently confusing, what will guarantee you self-reliance over time in the elections and national and, of course, self-government. We, with the provisions of "CLITHENH", brought a very large reform to the site, which provided for a mixed proportional electoral system, a majority for the promotion of the mayor and regional ruler, and a simple proportional system for municipal and regional councillors. This was the first step in a series of reforms. However, since the first day you have been terrified, you have panicked before the possibility of simple analogues being able to understand that, through its involvement, it is the right way to decide, in order to promote transparency, to make local government more effective. So panic, you did not even allow it to be tested. In black color your governance began in local government. To date, five amendments. You have transformed the municipal councils literally into decorative organs at best in cases or in paradoxes when your mayors help the worst and transfer their powers to donor committees. And you come today with the bill under discussion, not to hurt the simple analogue, but democracy itself. You are turning the electoral system into the most unsuccessful in advance, in the most undemocratic, authoritarian system of the enhanced analogy. And see it through an example. Let me take you to Thessaloniki for a walk. What were you doing there? With the falsified dilemma of the party and the so-called independent mayor you won the election. And what are you doing today? After a series of additions and shames, which you made the mayor of 14%, the mayor with self-responsibility, you are attempting to alter in advance the will of the citizens for the next time, while communication has already rejected your options. So instead of the Right's inability to example you, to understand that you are leading to a deadlock, because you cannot take the municipality again - it is obvious - leads you to even worse paths. Instead of seeking wider social alliances and consents, you are giving the last battle of idealism to impose your forced dominance on a municipality that knows you better than anyone else. Let's go to the season after the COVID. If something has brought to the forefront, it is how timely the demand for strengthening local government and real decentralisation is. To think about the contribution of the municipalities, communities, regions to the treatment and management of the pandemic, if they had the appropriate structures, particularly social, resources and staff. But you insist ideologically, obsessively, that you return us back to times that have already been rejected by realities. Your society leads, your local government is communing you, and you are resisting. Why? And we are honestly wondering, perfectly reasonablely, why do you insist on deceiving municipal structures and services? Is your next target of divesting municipal property, like you do with health sources, for example? I'm coming back to the bill. Invite the exit to the future. How? Through absolute and dominating return to the past, in an old regime, when all of Europe operates in analogue systems, with various variations. How is it possible in so many states to succeed and only here are you to prejudge that it will never work because of either the inability of your blue officials or your inability to understand the need for synergies and programming shocks in local government. Without consulting once again, a plan, an election system that will define life in local communities and decisions. What you are establishing is a model of governance of the municipalities and regions of backward perception, anachronistic and without the self-evident prior consultation. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, in fact your only motive is the prevalence of blue mayors who cannot. So what do you get into this bill? You're setting up an absolute majority system. With 43% the first combination elects 60% of consultants, the mayor and the district manager. You are effectively extinguishing the selfish operation of local communities, which you rename in municipality. You oblig their candidates to hang themselves under a municipal combination and depend on the central effect of the municipalities. That is to say, you are abolishing the third ballot. You did not give a chance to communities, resources or responsibilities, as we had anticipated. You have not given the citizens a chance to decide on their territory and to take care of it. You define 3% as an entry limit to the distribution of seats, preventing the representation of small local powers. And the absurd, the paradox is that all those who have been elected at very low rates are defenders precisely because they are embraced in a market with your mayors. Of course, Mr Vorides has told us that this will ensure a position for his worthy politicians, and the mayor will have almost three fifths of all of the advisers in advance. You reduce the number of advisors in all regions, in the major municipalities, in the majority of communities, on average 20%, another proof of your oligarchal perception of democracy and local government. The less they deal with the public, the better in your opinion. So you create more obstacles so that there are fewer and fewer combinations in the elections. It is obvious, above all, that by the proposed bill, what you are pursuing is the establishment and consolidation of an authoritarian and absolutely opaque system of governance that is controlled by your conservative forces. Your aim, as Mr Vorides has said, is to ensure that the Left does not rule. You're trying to rule out progressive forces from the local government agencies. Do you think you'll make it? You are facing the citizen with such arrogance and anguish about his daily life, who will find it before you in the polls, because they are not slow, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the days when the progressive social forces of the country will open the way to a comprehensive substantial reform for real decentralisation, with a strong democratic self-government, the 21st century self-government that needs the place, home, home, citizens, self-government, with transparency, with decentralisation, with participation and with democracy, with all that you present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Notopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u247	Here you go, Mr. Pecha.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u248	I just want to make an intervention. I don't know if we're hurting democracy. This will be judged by the citizens. You hurt the arithmetic. You said about an elected mayor with 14%. The mayor in Cesarean took 53%. What 14%? The fact that you didn't realize that you voted for an election law that was a free card, which had another system for the municipal council and another system for the mayor, turns out to be what you said. That's what we're ending. Mayor with 14% doesn't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u249	And we're going to Mrs. Maria Alexandra Head and New Democracy and the beautiful Yannina. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u250	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the broad term 'policy' refers to all the measures taken, the methods and procedures followed, through which groups of people are organised and operated in order to achieve the most efficient and least costly way possible, the aims they pursue in various areas of activity. Politics is an art and science, which concerns the production of ideas and their implementation, both in vital issues of human existence and substance, such as freedom, security, justice, culture and all other issues relating to society as a whole and the citizen. This introduction, with a small etymological analysis of the term 'policy', is intended to clearly demonstrate our role in this Chamber. Our vote affects the lives of the citizens, and once the responsibility for legislating belongs to us, it is important to understand the consequences of this vote as well. Especially for the bill we are debating today, it could make it difficult and be a brake on the development of local societies or - and so it can be - to embrace the people of works and actions, independent of party and political origin. In the political compass, today's bill, ideological, social, economic and semantic, belongs to what we call common sense. Because the problems facing many municipalities and regions with Law 4555/2018 had neither color nor ideology. It was a lot and they have brought to the surface the lack of this common sense, a logic necessary to understand that the need to solve the daily problems of society, whether we are talking about a large city or talking about a small village, is vital and goes through cyberdynamicity, through the power of decision-making and implementation. The position of the rapporteurs and colleagues who have already spoken before us is the clearest reflection of the main aims and objectives of the parties represented in Parliament. We have the conflict - political and that - of two worlds. On the one hand, the world of realism, efficiency and progress, and on the other hand, the insolence and the bazaar. Bad lies! The problems created by the implementation of simple proportional to the distribution of seats, municipal and regional councils have been much more than was intended to solve, making the administration of many municipalities and regions an unresolved puzzle. Local societies are facing issues that need to be addressed to a large extent. Mayors and districtlors cannot be hostages of personal micropolitical interests. This has an impact on the whole local society. But do you know, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, what is the paradox of the whole story? That the rule of law granted you during your term of office enabled you to vote in office in the municipalities and regions. How irony! Now let's see in summary what we're changing. We are restoring the logic of the distribution of seats in force before 2019. We restore rulership to the first and second degrees of local government, the benefits of which will be fruitful for the citizens. We are practically abolishing the so-called simple analogue applied by SYRIZA, which had disastrous consequences for their smooth operation. The winner of the election also ensures the election of 3/5 of the consultants to be able to exercise command. It is a reality that we are voting for the mayor and regional authority, the one we want to implement with his group the programme that he has presented to us in the election. It is not possible to have the majority required to do so. To be elected from the first round, 43% plus one vote must be received. The definition of this percentage on the valid lists which come in full harmony with the sense of popular democratic legitimacy of even a relatively large majority of the combination. We are putting a 3% limit on the right to elect a municipal and regional consultant. That is the right limit in national elections, politically right and social law. We're reintroducing the five-year term. The mayors and districtlors who will emerge from the elections of 8 October 2023 will have a full five-year term starting on 1 January 1924. It is time enough to highlight the work of local government representatives. Also, an important regulation that also responds to requests from local communities is the election of councillors of municipal communities across the territory without exception. The 31 August of the year of elections to draw up and declare the combinations and 10 September of the competent court to declare them to be fully audited and candidates to the electorate shall be known in good time. The number of members of municipal and regional councils as well as municipal communities is determined on the basis of specific population scales. There is provision for a rational reduction in the number of members with the aim of rationalising without causing any problem with the smooth functioning of the ATTs. To streamline the framework of blocks of election and compromise, taking into account the comments made in the context of the public consultation. In closing, I stand in the bodies, the people directly affected by the provisions of the bill. The representatives of the CEDEFOP and the EIA spoke with warm words about the bill. They are fully aware of the positive effects on the management of daily problems at every corner of the country and the substantial reduction in the suffering suffered by municipalities and regions from the politically invalid legislation of SYRIZA in 2018. We are doing another pre-election commitment by Prime Minister Mitsotakis in neutral political time. You remain once again exposed and naked political supporters of chaos and falsified mao-applicable teas of other times, different societies, with total lack of realism. Keep going, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to remind all Greeks and all Greek women who you really are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, too. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou from the Movement of Change from the beautiful Crete and more specifically Heraklion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an issue that we need to discuss on the substance without parallelism and great krone, especially from those who in recent years have degraded in one way or another the great effort made by the PASOK governments in relocation, and this is doubtful, after all, whether or not all the political forces are in agreement that the PASOK has made major changes and reforms in self-government and opened the way for local and regional development, regardless of agreements and disagreements on major changes that have taken place. Even in combination with the crisis in 2010, we made the great intersection with the "KALIKARATI" that completed the geographical reform, but opened new roads to the possibilities of self-government in order to achieve the result that everyone wants in the context of multi-level governance. Unfortunately, SYRIZA and New Democracy have great responsibilities for returning to self-government. Opportunities for deepening and development have been lost. They went back big steps that took place. We have never argued that the 'Kalikratis', the last reform carried out by the PASOK, is essential and does not leave any improvements. However, after its ten-year implementation, we have talked about the need for an assessment, an evaluation, in order to move forward with a new reform based on what we have achieved and going forward. Improving and promoting reform was therefore needed, not a setback. I will submit to the Minutes because I do not have time to mention them - I shall mention them on another occasion, I have already handed them over to the ministers - the study I have carried out to assess the implementation of the 'CALICRATES' on the basis of basic criteria as to what the reform intended and what this reform has achieved, by comparing objectives and objectives. Of course, this is a complex process and can be concentrated on the evaluation of quantitative and qualitative criteria. For the quantitative criteria, we all agree that with small changes that have taken place in recent years, of the six thousand OTAs in the millennium, we have gone with Kappastrias and Kalikaratis in the three hundred and twenty-five municipalities in the thirteen regions, and so they now have the opportunity as entities to play an important role in development and social well-being. That's the quantitative one. The qualitative result for the new municipalities, but also for self-government regions, should be sought on the basis of three critical problems at local level. The first is local participation. The second is administrative efficiency. Mr Papaliou said that there is no rulership, as a term in administrative science. But there is administrative efficiency. And thirdly, there is a risk of sustainable development and of prosperity and, at the same time, of achieving essential requirements, such as addressing the traditional pathogens that exist in the system. For local participation the road was opened by KALIKARATIS. He talked about the consultation before the decisions. He introduced municipal decentralisation. However, it did not provide for them in such a way that they progressed independently of the wishes of the officials who had the central administration of the municipality. For SYRIZA's "CLUDE" who came after it, and I would say that, unfortunately, after the evaluation has been lacking, they did not go like what had to be done. And while they gave the possibility, for example, for advance payment orders, these were not mandatory. And so it shows the great truth that the laws and reforms are not enough to move things forward into self-government, it also needs the political will and the culture of the people of selfgovernment, especially when there are potential responsibilities, which must be focused on and that lies in their own political philosophy. The fact of administrative efficiency clearly went well to the 'CALL'. However, the issues of sustainable development and prosperity in Greece did not go well. It ran the framework in the country, and as long as it worked, it was effective. The traditional link between development programmes and the role of self-government took place. And here I find an opportunity to say that the Recovery Fund with self-government so far has nothing to do with it. The officials of the European Commission with the ministers and their colleagues, and in particular Mr Psulakakis, have set up a programme, which if he does not come to button with the needs of self-government, I do not think he can play an important role in development. To avoid escape, the big deficit was that local government did not escape local caging and government dependence. It did not open up its wings for selfgovernment to take part in European-wide urban networks to exploit the European dimension. Our country, a member of the Eurozone, enables self-government to play an important role in partnering. So SYRIZA and the New Democracy, exactly with the same logic, are involved in election and not in institutionalism. They are concerned with parties and policies and not with local and social needs. With the ball, which he called "self-government", SYRIZA makes mayors who have a majority of hostages in a minority on the municipal council. And the New Democracy is coming to fix it with the first legislation and what is it doing? It abolishes the role of municipal councils and the pandemic completely - which we say in Crete, since the President said so - and the institution of the municipal council is over, it does not exist. There is a form called the Economic Commission, which, with various compositions, is foreign to the people's will at local level and the mayor is governed by it. So now is the time to do the reform to deal with SYRIZA's mess and what is it doing? That's exactly the reverse mess. While we had a majority mayor and was a minority on the municipal council, now we have a majority mayor to the people with 43% who has a huge majority on the municipal council of 60%. So there's no middle street? Isn't there a majority mayor having a majority on the municipal council? Isn't that for you? 60% mayor who has 40% on the municipal council is hostage. 40% mayor with 60% on the municipal council is anti-democracy and anti-democracy. 51% of the mayor and, in any case, proportionally to the City Council with a bonus in the first combination. Why the bonus and why the "CALL" were not simple analogues? Because on many issues a strong majority is required and therefore it should be possible for the majority of the combination to go through the decisions. This has a base of 60%, which you put. But not with 43% mayor. If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u253	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u254	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, what are you doing today? An improved version of the Paulopoulos Law. That's what this is about. But this reform was brought by Mr. Pavlopoulos in 2006. You take us 15 years back to it, which in the end is much more back. Because developments have come forward too. It is fifteen behind and fifteen that we had to go forward to prevent the developments that we have lost in previous years, the lost, thirty. Thirty, take us back. I come with two words to the local councils, which were an opportunity for municipal decentralisation to function on the basis of the experience of "KALIKARATIS" and the experience of the previous period and instead of that, we have heterodical administration. I have not yet understood - to explain - whether each local community elects its majority principle in the local community or is elected by the majority as a whole in the municipality. It should be authentic. In the small villages in particular, there should be the possibility of understanding people, not plundering, not splitting up. That is why we also had a thought that for under three hundred inhabitants it should be a single ballot and under all combinations. Of course, it must be seen where it comes from, but it must be a single ballot. However, over three hundred inhabitants should rely on the majority in the local community.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u255	Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u256	I'm closing, Mr. President. You unduly reduce the elected and at the same time increase the candidates. What kind of antagonism is that? Are you reducing the elected and increasing the candidates, that is, you want to increase the losers? You want a large number to collect votes? Do you want a large number for the paradoxes? Why do you want him the big number and you say you're reducing the board? Already today, you've brought in a setup. You saw the potato you made. You put Heraklion, Larissa and Piraeus in a second class. What reason did you put them in second class? And while you had placed in Athens, Patras and Thessaloniki forty-three advisors to the other thirty so many. What for? Why are you doing this? Are these reforms? Toys are electoral, which have nothing to do with the needs of society. So the essence of the reform that had to come today does not exist in the bill, and that is the big problem. And with what you're going to fix from the mess that SYRIZA did, you do in a different way the same mess. It is something that there was no reason to do in 2018 that was the previous law and to create huge problems. Not now. I am tabling the report of the General Assembly of the CTA of Crete, which has specific remarks on the articles of the bill, and of course I am tabling the study that I have done for the evaluation of the 'CALICRATES' in order to study at least in relation to the next bill. I also believe that I should contribute to this and that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u257	Mr Athanasios Zebplis has the floor from New Democracy and beautiful Evia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that today is a great day for local government, for self-government that is now able to plan a better tomorrow. And since many inaccuracies have been heard today that we are supposed to be deviating from the European acquis, I would like to point out that, on the contrary, the previous legislative regime which prevented decisions being taken close to the citizen was the one that violated directly the European Charter of Local Autonomity and the Fundamental European Authority of Assistance, that is to say, that decisions are taken closer to the public. The reality is, therefore, that a system of local government control and the frustration of popular will has been devised to transform minority groups into majority voting through opportune forms of cooperation. It was, you see - to link it to the work of the parliamentary committee - and self-government one of the sought joints of power. With these practices, we have conflicted and been involved in both self-government and national elections. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] So today's legislative initiative stems from this broad popular legitimacy and is carried out in close cooperation with the institutionalised institutions of self-government through a sincere, honest and substantial dialogue. This is because we must not forget the crescendo of authoritarianism of the previous government, which, with a hegemony of mind and a centralist attitude, imposed the electoral system above, completely unreasonable on the opinion of the hereditaries. And here is a record of our first big difference, which in practice does not mean who really respects the autonomy and independence of local government. Secondly, the fundamental difference in the fact that this draft law does not constitute a fragmentary interference in self-government matters. On the other hand, it is part of a more general planning for a fairer distribution of responsibilities and resources between the state, regions and municipalities. In other words, it forms part of a broad reform of the existing institutional framework that will further decentralise power, converging with European conditions. In this proposal of multi-level governance, this draft law has a stimulus for our strategic choices. Because, indeed, a visionary self-government, with a strong development footprint, needs a different model of governance that meets the needs of its time. This also requires the Constitution, which has a wide margin of regulatory power for the joint legislator to adapt the electoral law to the changing political landscape, preventing arrogatory situations that can lead to dead ends and flaws. In this context, in assessing the present socio-political conditions, we are going to lead to two findings: the first is that the current municipal period was marked by the insecurity and uncertainty caused by the pandemic crisis, of course, along with the unstable and fluid landscape of the repealed law. The second point is that in the post-COVID era OTAs must play a decisive and crucial role in restoring the country and the economy. And to achieve this recipe is simple: stability, flexible and sustainable self-government schemes and lastly strong long-driven governance. These are the prototypes of times and they are successfully responding to this draft law. This is therefore a systematic and courageous legislative initiative that frees local government from unnecessarily functional and organisational burdens and forms the institutional conditions for the conversion of municipalities into modern development cells to meet citizens' expectations. Indeed, to accept part of the previous claim, one part of a more enhanced version certainly, the electoral law was implemented in the period 2007-2010. However, we should not forget the opinion of both the CEDEFOP and all the local authorities of the period that this electoral system has had a positive impact on the proper functioning and effectiveness of the CSTs. Of course, however, this claim also helps me to another reason. Of course, there were criticisms about the compatibility of the law with constitutional principles and provisions and then, indeed, this debate was worthwhile. Today, however, all these issues are considered to be unsolved. The Council of State, by means of a number of decisions, has considered that the electoral system chosen meets the constitutional principles and the equitableness of voting and representativeness and proportionality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In addition, local electoral systems in Europe vary according to the citizens' historical relations with the groups and the national parliamentary system. Here we must point out that our country has had a long tradition and culture of an enhanced analogue system since the late 1950s. This has helped modernise and strengthen the country, but also deepen our democratic institutions, even in times of crisis such as the one we have recently experienced with the neonazi formula and this bloody scene of violence that it set up. The resilience of democracy is also aimed at the amendment which corrects one of the mistakes in the revision of the Criminal Code, which did not only provide for the abolition of the deduction of civil rights, but, as Mr Papadakis said, it also provided for other things that had a favourable framework for the offences of Golden Dawn, to the extent that the former Minister, Mr Condonis, would say that at that time he intended to throw Golden Dawn. And to accept that Mr. Kontonis served business and political interests hostile to the Left. But what was SYRIZA's youth saying that the new Criminal Code favours Golden Dawn, did it represent political interests? Did the advocate of the Egyptian porters' civil lawsuit who spoke of a gift on Golden Dawn and he was interested?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u259	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u260	I shall conclude, Mr President. The previous speaker was in 12 minutes. I'll be done in a minute. Many other people, such as anti-racist organisations, who spoke of a backward blow to the victims of racist and fascist violence by the murderous action of the Golden Dawn. So all of these political and business interests were served? So there is nothing left but the collective account you are asked to explain why all this is due, why you have done so. Did they have to do with rightful sensitivities, or were they cynical methods to weaken the New Democracy elections? To conclude, Mr President, I say that the Golden Dawn cycle is finally closing, but the battle against racism and violence continues in both Greece and Europe, and this is a common and everyday matter for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u261	Thank you. I wasn't the president of Mr. Kegeroglu, you know. Because respect for time is respect for colleagues. We continue with Mrs Agathopoulos from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u262	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the bill we are debating today on local government is indeed the mirror of your general policy. It is the mirror of your political perception of governance at both local and central level. It is the application of the Staff State and of the male authority that you so successfully apply to the central political scene and local government. Over-concentration towards democratic processes and functions. There is a huge gap between these two and between our perceptions, and that also appeared in the debate in here. And because one of your colleagues mentioned earlier the shameful expression of the Prime Minister for a dark five-year rule of SYRIZA, I would like to say that it is dark and backward: it is what your own government has been doing for two years in education, health, welfare, gender equality, the rule of law, etc., and it has been targeted at international and European institutions, with more recent complaints by the European Union of Judges and its encouragement to respect the rule of law by the Mitsotakis Government to avoid the country's international condemnation. Is there a bigger offense than that, ladies and gentlemen? Is there a greater insult for you to be chased by the UN and the European Union for not complying with international conventions we have signed as a country? And I am referring to the recently adopted law on conscientiousness that we have worldly been exposed once again. So when you talk about 'darky periods', keep in mind that, thankfully, history is not written by you. History will write the whole truth about who they really were and who were not those who served dark periods for the country. But let's come to the bill. Elections for local government should be like in most advanced states in the world and in Europe, a celebration of democracy, an example of cooperative operation, consensus, codecision and active participation of citizens. The very opposite, in other words, of the clientele and party state that you have been setting up governments for many years before the crisis. This change tried to make SYRIZA during his governance, bring an electoral law on local government that would strengthen the co-operation, culture of understanding between the factions, consensus, to slowly eliminate the mono-state rule of the municipalities and with it to eliminate the opacity and the client state that you had created but central and local politics. This electoral system has not allowed it to be implemented one day. Once we have undertaken, you have made sure that you abolished all the provisions which required the co-operation and consent of the factions, effectively abolishing the municipal and regional councils and conferring powers on the mayors, regional directors and economic committees. You called on the municipalities to be insolvent, but you did not even allow the new electoral system to be tested. You know, ladies and gentlemen, cooperation and consensus are not a simple thing, especially in a political landscape that has been shaped otherwise, especially in a political landscape, which even today dominates the old model of politics with rites, bribes, order, war and much more. I don't believe you're falling out of the clouds. I think you know all this. And that is why politics has been denounced in the consciousness of the world and especially of the new world, and therefore young people refuse to deal with commons. It takes time to change this old model, but it also wants to change attitudes and in this direction was the legislative initiative of the SYRIZA that you were afraid to let be implemented. You said the current system favours trades under the table. I have news for you, ladies and gentlemen. It is not the most democracy that favours trades under the table. It is the political staff who serves local government, this civilian staff who have thus been nurtured for so many years that he wants and implements the trades under the table. Young people, the incorruptible ones who wish to offer their place and who want to deal with local government are determined to cooperate with joy and on the table and can represent the change that we want, but which you do not want. This is why the regulation of the SYRIZA for separate local communities in 2019, a bright exception and an incision to the electoral data, was accepted with great satisfaction and inspired many people to engage with the public for the good of its village, the good of its place, without wanting or having to be related to a municipal party or a candidate mayor. Significant innovation that you abolished, but this was trying to abolish the bureaucracy and nuisances of local self-government, was some independence acquired by local communities, gaining some decisive responsibilities and a minimum budget for the absolutely basics, to change a lamp on the road. You abolished this before well - well implemented and collected the wrath of the local presidents and councils, as another electoral system was elected and others were called upon to serve. Is this a distortion of the electoral procedure or not? What were you afraid of? That the mayor no longer has them in his hand that they'll steal any glory of the mayor? What exactly did you fear and take back these responsibilities? Plus, your bill has something else. On the one hand, you are reducing the number of municipal and regional councillors and setting an election limit of 3%, and on the other you are increasing the number of candidates. On the one hand, you want to prevent small combinations and autonomous movements of citizens who go down with their sword and only make combinations, but those who manage to build and descend will finally set them the 3% limit to choose counselor, which has no sense. Do you know how the lists are made in their large majority in the small municipalities? Maybe that's how they're made to the older people, but I don't have any experience to tell you. Do you know how candidates find mayor's advice when the number required is so large? You know, Minister? If you don't know, it's good to know. They look at jobs if they are elected, they wear favors, they give tips for the candidate to cover his paradox and not just because many of them go in to get in when the number of candidates needed is so great and you know that very well. There are not many of them prepared to deal with local government, so they do not pay for the paradox that you come and increase from 50 to 80 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u263	You're welcome, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u264	I'm closing, Mr. President. It is necessary, therefore, for your prefecture to be found so many candidates that it is the mayor's candidate to some of them who can afford to pay the offspring, so economic soundness, whether it is based on a political party that finances him, whether he has the same money, or finds money from somewhere else. What do you do with that? Certainly not to strengthen the participation of the citizens. You are simply perpetuating a client state useful for your resignation, but very inefficient for local government. In short, and I close, Mr President, your bill is the epitome of returning to the past, of opacity, of over-concentration of responsibilities, of partyisation of OTAs and of perpetuating customer relations precisely because you put the party interest above the functioning of local government. We are completely opposed to this model, we have told it to all tons and will continue to try for more democracy at all levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, just one comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u266	Yes, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u267	Because we seem to do not know how mayors make the combinations for municipal councils and you know please read Article 15(2) and if you realize that it is not an obligation, but the right to increase the number of candidates please vote for at least Article 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u268	We're continuing with Mrs. Biziu from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be within the prescribed time limit. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, local authorities are known to be the authority expressing the specificities of each local society, which meets the economic, social, cultural and cultural characteristics of each place. It is the institution that is closest to the daily needs of our fellow citizens. In this sense, the purpose of local government is considered to be equally important, if not more important than central government. Municipalities are the eminent expressions of the will of local communities. In 2018, the previous government introduced a mere analogue to the self-government elections. What does today teach us the experience of mere analogy that highlighted local authorities in 2019? In two hundred and thirty-one municipalities in the country, the mayor's municipality party has no majority. There is a municipality where the mayor's party received more than 50% in the first round, but does not have a majority in the municipal council. Nor are there few municipalities where the majority on the municipal council have opposition to the mayor's forces, so it is impossible to approve the municipal authority's suggestions. How sensible is that the mayor should be asked to implement the opposition's programmes and suggestions and not be able to implement his own programme, what he has been given the popular mandate for? A characteristic example is the Municipality of Tunnavos in Larisa, where I am elected. They claimed the initiators of this bill that, with the simple analogue, the ATTs would be led to cooperation and consent. Finally, the only thing that has achieved this system is to create insolence, chaos and diverse problems in the exercise of administration in municipalities and regions, and this is what both the Association of Regions of Greece and the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece and the scientific bodies agree. One wonders whether what SYRIZA really wanted with the simple analogue is to improve the operation of the municipalities, as you claim, or dismantle them and dismantle them, since it was known that it had absolutely no support in local communities and little as a minimum power in local government. Regardless of their motives, what the project proved is that coercive partnerships are not viable. Local government agencies have the task of by the Constitution to exercise specific powers of public authority and manage local affairs. Primary and secondary local government is the genuine institutional expression of social participation in administration. It is a pillar of democracy and at the same time a lever of the country's productive and developmental path. Continuation and stability in the operational management of the municipalities is ensured only by cyberdynamicity and cannot be sacrificed to the altar of supposed representativeness. The electoral system in local government must prevent duplication in decision making and the exercise of the duties of the mayor and municipal council must be as smooth as possible and, of course, to discourage the transfer of political frictions of national government to local communities, municipal and regional councils. This objective cannot be achieved when the party that won the elections does not have the majority. Multi-accidentality in representation of citizens on municipal councils does not mean fragmentation of the municipal council at a paralysis point. Another thing is consensus, the creative composition through contradictions that ultimately produce work for the benefit of the citizen, and another is the cancellation of the program chosen by the citizens for their country. The people's mandate must be translated into local authority decisions and it goes without saying that the mayor's and district manager's faction cannot be left out of these partnerships. It is also the mayor who is recognized as the expression of the municipal authority which is politically, administratively and functionally, the municipal authorities and the services of the municipality. It is the person who has the lead in the representation and legitimacy of the organisation. The first in combination must be able to implement the programme which it has drawn up and which it wants to implement. In this context, it is necessary to strengthen the successful combination in order to ensure the smooth and smooth functioning of the administrative authorities of local government. Today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, guarantees the smooth political and administrative functioning of the municipalities, avoiding unnecessary conflicts and conflicts. It is a system that serves the democratic criterion of the representative functioning of local authorities without jeopardising normal governance. Modern self-government must above all be effective, serve the citizens the interests of local society and respect the citizens' mandate. The citizen in the city, in the village, in the remote mountain settlement is interested in his everyday life, in the garbage, on the sidewalk, in the green. In the New Democracy, we want self-government to have the entity and independence it deserves. And the elections are just one of the tools that we are promoting for the proper management of local affairs. We support the institution of local self-government - and we have proved it - with funding by development programmes. The funds for the financing of the municipalities exceeded eighty-seven million a year, while the emergency funding amounted to 50 million euros. We implement development projects such as "Antonis Tritsis" and "Philodimos II" which upgrade local government, local communities and economies and promote growth. However, no matter what money is made available, no matter what programmes are drawn up if there is no firm self-government it is impossible to achieve the maximism of their exploitation. Greece of the future, Greece of security and prosperity has its starting point for local society to develop and upgrade local self-government. And that is the aim and vision of our government, and that is exactly what we are pursuing with today's bill. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you all to vote in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u270	Thank you for the time too. We continue with Mr. Efstathios Constantinidis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u271	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, governance was the term that prevailed in the debate on local government. And this has emerged not only as a commitment, as a result of a commitment from the current government but also as a demand from the people of local government who have been faced with the spectrum of intergovernmentalism that SYRIZA has inherited them, as a result of the mere analogy that has brought electorally paradoxically and self-government deadlocks, a situation which forced this House to legislate on a number of occasions, which has enabled OTA administrations to operate and produce work in the face of the apparent risk of not being able to meet their essential obligations. Because in fact, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, what you have done was to deprive one of its two synthetics. You kept 'this' and you abolished 'administrative'. So today's bill comes to restore normality here too. And normality means that a mayor, a regional mayor and, of course, their ranks, are elected to carry out positions and programmes that were presented to their fellow citizens beforehand, and not to be the prerogatives of symptom-majorities that collide or overthrow the design of each mayor or county. Of course you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, as you have confessed, have a problem with regularity. It doesn't favor you. But it favours citizens. That is why we have also committed ourselves to restoring it and doing so. But we must have a culture of convergence and consensus, SYRIZA tells us today. Indeed, consensus cannot be an end in itself. But who forbids consensus? Who prevents self-government or even combinations from being involved in the election, from drawing up a single proposal, from compiling a joint vote and putting it in the public's judgement, from getting legalisation and co-administering in the territory of scheduling, rather than as a result of deadlocks or stalls? On the other hand, consensus is not "for others I committed the first Sunday, with others I have consulted to elect the second, others are running the municipality, others make the decisions and others are responsible". That's a mess. In fact, this kind of co-operation is generally outside the limits of the people's mandate, since it might not have been known to the citizens when they voted. Therefore, with the current system consensus is not the result of a choice, but of necessity, since one third of the municipalities of the country after the last elections the mayor did not have a majority in the municipal council. Known cases of the electoral cradle, the mayor of Kavala, who was elected with 63% on the second Sunday. His resignation had only nine of the forty advisors. The mayor of Thessaloniki who won 67%, also on the second Sunday, with only seven municipal councillors from forty-nine. Sixteen groups went down there, and the leaders of the thirteen were elected to the municipal council. You are aware of allegiance and fragmentation. The top is mayor Orestiada, who was elected with 50.26% from the first Sunday, only got out of sixteen of the thirty three municipal councillors. You know, ladies and gentlemen, what all these people and many others say? Fortunately, the current government has transferred responsibility to the committees and especially to the finances where they had a majority and have been able to run. Of course you knew all this, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and your intention when you brought the simple analogue was not inappropriate. Because it is not a consensus that is good for you, that is to say, the local government where you know that you do not have powers and want to give a regulatory role to the minorities, but to ignore it provocatively where it does not interest you, that is to say, the vote on the frustrations. It seems, then, that consensus is a misunderstood concept for SYRIZA. This has also been demonstrated in the last debate on the draft law in committee, where there was the representative of the Civilian Responsibility Officer, who has launched cords against the government, because - he says - with the KINAL partnership violated the spirit of the constitutional provision in the process of selecting members of the IASC. Mr Vorides, of course, reminded him that the composition of the AACC is not a matter for the government, but for the Conference of Presidents of Parliament, which he chooses by a majority of 3/5. Most importantly, however, that even this increased majority does not necessarily oblige the participation of SYRIZA, who must finally abandon the ownership or a card conception of consensus. To sum up, then, the enhanced analogue, correct the 43% plus 1 threshold that will give self-powered administrations from the first round to avoid electing the mayor, the transaction and the abstention in the second, right the 3% threshold, and the five years that gives a broader horizon for better planning and planning. I have left the issue of municipal communities, as they will now be called, to stress their importance. Those of us who have contact with their representatives every day know the huge work they do and thank them very much for that. I discussed in detail with elected communities in my region the changes in the electoral law. In fact, several of their positions were incorporated into the final plan. I am sure that the single market will not prevent new people from dealing with their country's commons. I am also sure that the leaders of the combinations will try to incorporate the best candidates and advisors into the lists, since their popularity will also affect the overall result. After that, ladies and gentlemen, another important commitment by the government is taking place, an act that has a strong and positive impact on the functioning of local government, which will be called upon to play an important role in the coming development for the country. And that is why we must equip it with all the necessary tools, with effective administration first. That is what we are doing with the vote on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, too. We are now continuing with Mr. Micopoulos Alexander from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u273	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with the assumption that developments show that the democratic and equal representation of citizens in the administrative systems continues to "patient" over time as a dominant demand. So I think that this top issue is coming back to the agenda, with the current government's legislative initiative. Secondly, despite the ever-increasing problems that self-government faces today, we must approach self-government experience either to the first or to the second degree in the light of the new context and reality created by the pandemic. And why am I claiming this? Because quite simply the municipalities of the country were the closest institutions to the citizen and they were the ones who helped in this exceptional situation to maintain social cohesion. So if we want to talk about a relaunching of the economy, about the need to select a new production model, then it is realistic in my opinion to say that there is a need to strengthen localisation and regionalisation, if you wish, of the economy. If we agree, Mr Pecha, on this claim, then we conclude that the municipalities and regions of the country are precisely those institutions which will be invited to play the most important role in the next day of the pandemic. In order to respond, however, Minister, there are specific conditions in this role. It requires real decentralisation in self-government with democracy, substantial shocks and compositions are needed on very specific issues. It means programming agreements, open discussions, and it means inaugurating new structures where the citizen can participate, co-decide on what he is concerned with at neighbourhood, community or municipal level. Mr. Pecha, I'd say today's bill should work as a mirror. Does this legislative initiative work as a mirror? Can the mayor of Allonissos, for example, see himself in this bill when he actually runs a municipality without employees? Can the mayor of Skopelos, Mr. Stamatis Perris, see himself on this legislative initiative, when he is anxiously looking for a engineer to supervise a small but necessary technical project for his municipality? Can the Mayor of Almyros, Mr. Vangelis Hadjikyriakos see himself in today's legislative initiative, when he has a Municipality of Almyros with huge administrative limits, with coastal fronts, plain areas, mountainous tumor and has nothing personal to manage? Can the Mayor of Agias, Mr. Antonis Goundaras, be able to see himself today in today's bill when a municipality with huge development potential does not currently have financial self-sufficiency? Why am I saying that? Because quite simply, Mr Petsa, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the debate on the electoral system cannot be disfellowshipped from the reality experienced by the municipalities in Greece. As long as the municipalities are treated with an ownership perception as long as they do not have the opportunity to decide to resolve simple everyday issues, without first having to legislate, as long as they are charged to the municipalities without the relevant resources, the debate on which electoral law is more appropriate will never lead to the issue. What's the matter? Let's agree. Upright municipalities, capable municipalities, powerful municipalities that can lead local communities to a better tomorrow. Let me be a little unorthodox at the moment and I shall refer to the word'self-evident'. I think the word'self' in our country today is a bad and afflicted concept. Why am I saying that? When we talk about a electoral system, it should be obvious that, in fact, we are talking about whether each citizen's vote is of equal importance, whether it votes for a larger self-government or a smaller one. So the same vote if we accept it as a concept is guaranteed only by a simple proportional system. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, therefore, dared to legislate, I will say, an early system of mere proportionality for self-government. I call it an early date, because adjustments and changes needed to be made. It was, of course, a system that could not be tested in practice, as the current government cancels it on its legislative initiative. We did not see, in practice, how consents would work, how the shocks would work. In conclusion, "KLITHENIS", I to accept, needed corrections and adjustments that would naturally reflect the reality experienced by the municipalities in Greece. But it is another thing to claim this, and it is another thing to speed up the abolition and return to an over-optimistic system with intense fragrance of old-fashionedism. What is the argument you are all using today against simple analogues to the municipalities and regions about how they will be run exactly? It is another afflicted concept, the concept of governance. I will give a very simple example, and I think my fellow Members of the New Democracy who have been self-government will understand very well what I mean. Since 2010, when the 42% law was implemented, many municipal authorities despite 60% of the bonus that the law gave, lost the majority in municipal councils. Why did this happen? I shall therefore try a very simple approach. It has been because the cyberdynamicity you all invoke today is not, in the end, being ordered, but, in essence, conquered. Therefore, in the name of a distorted imprint of what is currently the rulership in the next self-government elections will not be the society of a city that will choose the mayor on the second Sunday, but an electoral system that will impose a mayor with a relative majority, regardless of whether he had his programme, is or is not acceptable to the majority. In the name of cybercrificy, voices will be restricted within municipal councils, small self-government regimes will disappear, and local communities will be abolished. And here is the most important, most important of all: instead of strengthening the institution, both at the level of resources and at the level of competence, so that more citizens participate in the formation of municipal policy by direct transferring to the municipality the problems of the neighbourhoods, the municipal apartments and the villages, we have the very opposite of doing away with local representation. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that very soon, Mr Petsa, we will understand one thing: the political headache that is needed to compose neighbouring political spaces on municipal councils will be much less than critical and great problems the mayors will have to face. What's going to happen? It will take a mayor, that is, very simply 43%, to have 60% on the municipal councils, but it will be blackmailed by parts of their party to prevent them from being "emptied" and constantly undermined. In conclusion, this draft law on local government does not come to solve any problems arising from the application of mere analogy because we have never just seen it tested. We are dealing with the substance of this, Mr Petsa, and, frankly, with a project to reinvigorate the charter of local self-government which runs on the very same old recipe of the tight hug of self-government with the parties, in its logic that more self-government policy will be developed by the Ministry of Interior than by the mayors themselves and the municipal councils themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u274	Thank you for keeping time. We are now continuing with Mr Chrysomalis from the New Democracy. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the substance of the bill, I would like to say this. I hear many colleagues from the Civic Opposition, by SYRIZA, allegedly annoyed by the Prime Minister's yesterday's report on the dark point of history in terms of governance 2015-2019 and especially in the first half of 2015. Honestly, you don't have to feel disturbed. I would suggest to you this: if you would like to put forward a proposal - I believe it will be accepted by the government, but I also think from all the parties in this House - that we should consider in depth what happened especially in the first half of 2015. Others say Mr Varoufakis, your former partner and asset of the economy, according to Tsipras, Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou, former President of Parliament, elected by you - now you have different political routes - your partners now LEE, your former companions at SYRIZA. I will tell you that you do not need to worry because everything that has been omitted, but it will be very useful for the committee to find out the whole truth and to be easily sought by the history of the future. Therefore, instead of bewildering, behold Rhodes, come and make a proposal to make a committee look at those facts in depth. As far as this bill is concerned, I can see that you're still feeling annoyed. First of all, we must make something clear: it was within the election programme of the New Democracy. We have said so, we will restore normality and regularity to the municipalities and regions. The people appreciated it in our election programme and gave us the mandate to implement it. Another commitment is therefore taking place at the moment with the current draft law that the Ministry of Interior has submitted. We're choosing the rulership. We had said so in an election, we are doing so now. You say that this is how we destroy representativeness. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I could accept this if you consistently supported it. Why if you really support representativeness just a few days ago in the bill of the Ministry of the Interior concerning the vote of the impoverished Greeks and the fact that they could vote from their homes abroad, in other words go there to vote, what did you suggest? The vote shall not be equal, not be counted against the overall result. Where is the principle of representativeness there, which you supposedly serve? Clearly hypocritical your attitude. I will tell you that only one principle is fully consistent and you support it, what is of interest to SYRIZA, what is the interest of SYRIZA's electoral interest. The vote of the revenues you had decided that it was not in the interest of SYRIZA and that is why you did not vote for it so that they could not vote from their place of residence. You have seen during your administration that, as a rule, the mayors are not SYRIZA - this is the great 'disadvantage' they have - for that reason you have decided: since it is not SYRIZA how we can control the joints of power and in this case the joints of local government? With a resalt! Blahalo, to be able to control the mayor and the majority. I'm sorry, that's not representativeness, it's not democracy. That's why you chose the law you brought. The results are well known. If we at the beginning of our administration did not bring the improvements we have made to the terms of the Minister, Mr Theodorikos, if we were to be able to manage, then no budget would have been able to pass a technical programme. The city could not be governed. If we left it that way, reason would say that after a few years, you know what they'd say? To abolish the institution of local government, it is a mess, nothing is done, better to be appointed by the respective government. That's where we'd get there sometime. Of course this serves the DNA of your ideology, "State-Father". No, for us self-government has autonomy, has independence, that is what we give it with this bill, that the mayor can command and judge at the end of his term of office. So to be able to have a mayor, choose a mayor of responsibility, say his schedule, say how he envisions his municipality, his region. If it is rewarded by the citizens to be able to do so within five years, to develop their works, to implement their ideas, to do so and, if it does so, to be judged by them in the five-year period by the local society that elected him. This means independent local government. We therefore opt for cybercracy. That's why we're putting 43% of it to the mayor. That's why we're putting a 3% combination to get into the city council, so everyone doesn't make a combination just to elect themselves. Here, Minister, give more independence and autonomy to the local communities. They're getting better and I think they're going to be able to talk, but the essence is: unlike the mayor you left him - and I'm sorry I'm going to say it like that, but I want him to be recorded in the Minutes of the House - instead of the mayor of the mayor of the municipal council making any consensus about anything, we want a mayor of visionary, thinking, telling his or her fellow citizens his vision and, if they give him the opportunity, they can do without excuses, without saying "I wanted to, you elected me, the minorities didn't allow me to do it and judge on it. This is the most honest relationship between the mayor and the district ruler and his electorate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u276	Papageorgiou...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u277	Leave it, Mr. Barca. Talk to Mr. Polakis with the double books you, Mr. Barkas. Mr. Pollack's double books, Mr. Barkas. Leave the other examples.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u278	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u279	Why is this being created now? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u280	He likes Mr. Barkas to forget Mr. Polakis when he ran the municipality. In conclusion, I would like to say that this bill abolishes trade, abolishes extortionist cooperation, abolishes what you called the rival rivalry, as you like to baptize the municipal tavern and the blackmailing of minority groups. It is a bill that local government wants, that is what all the authorities in government want, that we have said in the election, that we act and once again believe the consistency of our election speech with our government work. I would like to say to you by closing down: in fact, think about the local communities that understood you and made it the biggest one. In voting in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u281	We continue with Mr. Ioannis Giolas from SYRIZA, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr President. The bill under discussion is not just a malicious legal structure. It is not a set of rules that he has heard in certain arrests and regulations. It is the map of old-fashioned and neo-conservative factorism in the OTA area. It is the tracer and promoter of the mamarilas, closed arrays, nepotism, opacity, lack of accountability, direct assignments and favorability. He is the negligent of the democratic functioning of the institution, the reluctance of public and open cooperation, the hostility towards pluralism, convergence and the composition of opinions, the reverser of the action of active citizens and genuine and untouchable self-government movements. It is ultimately the necrobot of democracy and the exponent of the principles of proximity, directity and, in particular, of the local autonomy established by the European Charter of Government, which also applies in our country with a super-legislative force. This is, in fact, about a moral, anti-democratic and anti-constitutional electoral system that really violates the equivalence of citizens' vote. There are many provisions of the bill that betray the anti-democratic spirit that runs them from the beginning to the end, making it an atrocious construction which resurrects the superpowers of an extremist mayoral system, seeking to suppress oxygen from the primary cell, what you all say, the crack and the organization of society, the OTAs, the local self-government. Firstly, the irrationality and return to the conservative past is the introduction of the 43% plus 1 rate designed to secure direct elections to the mayor or regional authority. This provision clearly infringes the principle of equivalence of votes directly. It overthrows the way in which the mayor of the party who, on the second Sunday, will have the approval of at least 50% plus 1, a system that has now been established for many years and has been accepted by the citizens. Why do you change it? Secondly, the successful combination is subsidized by a beastly majority of 3/5 members of the municipal or regional council. By this introduction, the distortion of the will of the citizens, by unreserved contempt for the principle of equal value and the power of vote, you are launching a new and unacceptable framework for the snugling of power by actors and regimes which, while having a limited resonance on the electorate, will come to manage the sufferings of the citizens with absolute power and even with 60% of the seats in the local or regional councils. Can you tell us, ladies and gentlemen of the government, which European state is similar or similar to your own electoral system? Do you have the courage and freeness to inform Parliament and the Greek people with what electoral system are all European countries following 1950 and to date for the appointment of mayors and regional leaders? Is it true or not that, in all the regions of most of Europe, the simple analogue is the case, and indeed in several with an indirect election of mayors and regional councils from the respective municipal and regional councils? Third distortion, the least possible, the meaningless, objective and reasonable aim of reducing the number of municipal and regional consultants from 10% to 20%. Is there a streamlining or modernising of the institutions in this way? You know that this reduction in Greece contributes to reducing the absolute number of these by two thousand people, self-government members and executives. On the other hand, the number of candidates is increased to 80%. So where are you going with this? Do you think democracy needs to be involved in more candidates and yet you are limiting the number of candidates elected? Is there not a substantial contradiction here? No, ladies and gentlemen, you understand that, but your purpose is covertly suspicious. Let the established, well-known and permanent local groups have the right to elect a greater number of candidates to suppress the pumping tank than the smaller ones, so simply. Your aim is not to magnify the councils with a large number of members and thus to strive for the mayors and regional managers to convince more supporters of your positions. Fourthly, the five years in which the term of office of the municipal authorities is growing seem to have no sense in them. But the most ignorant citizen, the suspected, understands that the more time you are in governance and food the relevant mass media, eight months of work for the unemployed, direct assignments to those who are unemployed, projects, studies and jobs in the surroundings of individuals and entrepreneurs, the greater acceptance and popularity - let's call it inappropriate and pure - you get it. Fifth, the 3% plaque that will actually turn away active municipal blocks and autonomous self-government schemes you know will lead to the exclusion of hundreds of forty municipal figures and thirty-four regional orders from the existing ones today. Do you think that it helps democracy and promotes the active participation of citizens in the commons, or is it a crissy to cut off some annoying and unpleasant voices for the crocodiles of power? In summary, I will mention the absolutely positive construction of obtaining the mayor's party, even a minority, an absolute majority on all the boards of the Community by taking advantage of the ranking obtained from the polls. Does the idea ever pass on to you not to be elected by the citizens, but to be appointed by the mayor? What is the point, what is the need for elections? Let me tell you one more thing that we need to heat it properly. It has also been heard by a number of colleagues from the Group of the European People's Party. After conflicting, in total and strongly throughout the country, from the whole Greek network of local communities, with your unfair, distorting, illegal and unconstitutional aim of enforcing, strengthening and deposing the mayors' prestige, you have deprived the independent local self-government regimes of the possibility of participating in local communities autonomously. You thus cut off oxygen, life, energy, people's participation and supply to be actively involved in the promotion of the issues of their place, villages, towns, towns and apartments. Our people are especially Community. Even in the stone years of the foreign occupation he used the word "commons" to define what he implied, a people who over time used the word "community" by defining it as coexistence for the common good. Today there are six thousand hundred and thirty - five communities with seven million three thousand inhabitants. So we're talking about 70% of the Greek population. You deprive them of the right to determine the fate of their place. You deprive them of the right to appoint their representatives with separate ballots and their own candidates. Do not disconnect the oxygen of life of the newest, hopeful and healthy part of self-government. I would also like to say something about the 'caramella' of non-governmentality. I also see some colleagues from Thessaloniki. Will you know, ladies and gentlemen, but also you, Minister, have there ever been any municipalities in the four-year term which has elapsed not to vote on a budget or draft strategic planning or a technical programme? So where's the insolence? What does it mean to be insolent? We must ensure and promote our own plan. That's all? Does that require democracy? Do the necessary shocks and consents have to get into Kaidas?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u283	Please complete, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u284	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall end. You don't trust citizens. You want them to be active and dependent, to be pitiful and to be non-participating, while since antiquity the non-participation of the commons has been despised as a private and worthless citizen. I'm going to break the prediction. The customer system you set up by rearing and equipping it to have disciplined mayors and district rulers will not be long-term, nor will it be implemented because it will soon be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u286	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u288	Here, Minister, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u289	Although very hard words have been used to describe very small differences, I imagine so that the argument is made by political, micro-political, I will focus only on one issue. The word 'anti-constitutional' has been heard. I would like to say that the Council of State with Resolutions 3686/2009 and 3687/2009 has judged a constitutional even lower percentage than 43%. Therefore, I do not want impressions to be created, and that is why I considered it appropriate to mention it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u290	Mr Kouvelas Dimitrios has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u291	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in paraphrasing the American President, John Kennedy, who said that politics is not the art of the practicable, but the balance between unpleasant and disastrous, I would say that politics is the art of being able to achieve results that will satisfy most people, especially at local level. This certainly achieves the draft law we are discussing today for local government. As a municipal advisor to the Municipality of Thessaloniki, I attended the KEDE conferences at the time, the relevant consultation held on municipal councils, the dialogue between the mayors and the government of SYRIZA - ANEL in the previous self-government period. In only one thing is true, the former Minister, Mr Skourletis, said that the consultation did last too long. But why did that happen? Was it your democratic sensitivity? Do you want to talk about it a lot? No, ladies and gentlemen, on the contrary, there was a strong disagreement between local government and the abortion of mere analogy. That's what you wanted to impose and local government reacted. You sought political legitimacy to do so, but you were not given this opportunity. You finally imposed it. I remember even Members and Ministers of the then SYRIZA government insisting that there is no problem, we will have broad consensus, most decisions will be voted on by unanimity, changes are in the direction of progress. Obviously other weights I hear with more surprise than interesting that you still insist today when the vast majority of thirty-two mayors asked you not to blow local government into the air with the simple analogy system, you were. It was obvious that even if you came to rule, you didn't change your minds nor your micro-party perceptions. Many people in SYRIZA even today maintain the narrow logic of the small political force. So you're good at the guerrilla without seeing the needs of the local society, you don't understand. But you knew very well what you were doing, what you were pursuing and what you achieved with the simple analogue. You wanted the local self-government tool to make your presence felt. Because it is clear that citizens do not trust you with the fate of local societies, you are favouring chaos as much as the forces on the municipal council are being fragmented, the more hopefully you will have your need and so the debate on the exchange has begun, it is what you are called consents in the SYRIZA language. The problem appeared immediately after the municipal elections of 2019 and the example of the Municipality of Thessaloniki is absolutely characteristic and has only one reading. There we had nineteen mayors, the sixteen of whom were elected municipal councillors, nine of whom achieved election results of less than 2.5%, i.e. the absolute political salt emerged the next day and an obvious risk of total insolence in the second municipality of the country. However, similar issues were dealt with in both three municipalities in Greece. The mayors who elected did not have a majority in their municipal councils. Immediately, the inauguration of political syssveres was launched, and certainly the risk of getting too much water into the programme for which the mayor was voted on. Fortunately, the Mitsotakis government gave timely solutions and created the framework for institutional alliances between municipal councillors of different factions. So we have lost your plans that you wanted to have more say in local communities than the true political power you have. It has been criticised today, because we are allegedly talking about the electoral law before we talk about competences in local government. But the municipality needs to have a strong administration to make use of its responsibilities. You also tell us that we are changing the electoral law before discussing funding for local government. In order not to remember in detail the act of legislative content by which you put the cash available to the municipalities when you were government worth remembering what you did before the self-government elections in 2019. You approved projects under the "Philodimos" programme, except that there was no funding. Today the leadership of the Ministry of Interior has a dowry for the "Antonis Tritsis" programme of two and a half billion and an attempt is made to reach three. Even further efforts are being made to integrate all the other mature projects into the Recovery Fund. Top arguments have been heard that supposedly with hard neoliberal choices we serve the blue mayors, that we are setting up electoral cooking and some other amazing political fantasy and conspiracy scenarios. But are you really serious, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Do we not all know that the mayors are elected and not appointed by any government or, of course, by Opposition? And I directly reply to you that the person who takes 43% of the electorate in the first round, yes, is entitled to implement his programme without being dependent on minorities. These minorities are respected, but if no more citizens are convinced they cannot be imposed through the electoral system. I repeat again. The self-government during the previous period were vertically opposed to the introduction of mere proportional. After the last municipal elections with your own law, i.e. simply proportional, the new mayors are calling for its abolition. They call it every chance. You heard them in the committees what they told us. "Let us breathe," that's what they told us. They called for an urgent, anguish change in the electoral system and the previous self-government and the current ones. This, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA, is revealing and I think it should concern you. You've lost contact with local government, you'd think you're the wrong ones. For us New Democracy and the Mitsotakis Government, self-government is a fundamental pillar of social and economic development. Decentralisation of powers, the involvement of local societies in decisions on the serious issues they are concerned with, the correct and transparent distribution of resources, the existence of intermediate steps between society on the one hand and the central authority on the other for the more direct exercise of social policy, for the protection of the environment, for the management of waste are vital elements of a modern democratic culture. One of our most important election commitments is taking place tomorrow. We are establishing the new system of self-government elections. This will ensure the possibility of strong majority voting and at the same time enable minority groups to express themselves constructively. This ensures the rulership of the municipalities. With the increase in the term of office of the elected representatives in five years, a necessary political time is provided to implement the programming positions for which their citizens have been elected and approved. At the same time, the necessary representation will be ensured of the political and social forces which have accepted in the local communities with a limit of 3% of their entry into the municipal council. I conclude by saying that this is what is happening while we are two and a half years from the next self-government election, that is, there is sufficient time to prepare everyone. After all, we have a long-term demand that the next generations should not be the next elections. I invite you to vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u292	We are now continuing with Mr Neocles Cretan from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by pointing out that the time we bring this bill to the vote is very right and that we should, of course, correct the distorting situation in governance and give the right time to prepare the candidates for the next self-government elections. Ladies and gentlemen, the simple analogue has finally become a complex analogous. The triumph of proportionality became a Gordian bond to local development. The need for balance and compromises has certainly led to deadlocks. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now witnessing your legislative intelligence to apply your ideological incests to local self-government. And if one thought that your main motive was democracy in itself, then all of us would welcome it. But we knew that you just wanted to put another mine in a place where you knew from the outset that the New Democracy would prevail in great comfort and that, of course, this victory would be the legend for subsequent developments, namely an election call, the victory of the New Democracy, the creation of a strong government and a new era in governance. Of course you did. You managed to create municipal councils which, until we make the corrective action in early 2020, could not be run, to make a decision. It was such that your prediction of democracy that your law, in the end, did not allow the elected mayors to exercise command and run their programs. Finally, who were lost with this choice? Citizens, citizens, villages, cities, our daily lives. It is therefore an invention that has sedated local self-government. And it's worth it. Do we live in parallel universes, communicate with different self-government? Are we watching other municipal councils? However, in this country, in this space time, in this country, in the Greek municipalities, you have managed to cause a mess and of course an internal turbulence. Municipal orders were dismantled, because managers of counterpopulation negotiated with the administration. The mayors to command have placed anti-majorities from other groups, introducing introverts and grievances and within the groups that won the election, but also within the groups that lost the election. Well, that's confusing. The new government's main announcements were the change in the electoral law on local government. And, as I said before, we were breathing at the beginning with the legislation at the beginning of 2020. We have given the municipal authorities the opportunity to proceed with their work. Ladies and gentlemen, the time is for sure last night and usually at night people, before bed, are honest and say the truth more easily. We all know that you are not particularly represented. You ruled with 36% for four and a half years Greece and we know very well that you served everything beyond representativeness during your term of office. And you come today to raise crowns, burglar your clothes for representativeness. This picture has been described by many of my colleagues. In your opinion, 43% is not representative. In your opinion, also a candidate who occupies 47%, 48%, 49% and loses in the second round less expresses the social total than the final winner. In your opinion, it is still very right to dismantle municipal groups and become an incredible introvertible dialogue that is ultimately counterproductive to society. Ladies and gentlemen, we really believe that we are serving democracy and representativeness. We are serving the development of the municipalities and regions. We serve rulership, we finally serve our fellow citizens and our society. As much as you try to convince the Greek people that our legislative effort does not serve the proper functioning of local government, you will achieve nothing. We live in the same space as the Greek citizens. You live in the space of your ideological vegetation. We live inside and listen to society. The new electoral law will help local communities deal with the daily problems, with efficiency and speed, which we want to see in the public administration, in the new Greece that is emerging after the economic and health crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u294	Thank you very much. I don't know if there's a study that says that tonight we're telling the truth, but if there's such a study, I'd like you to bring it. We are now continuing with Mrs Christina Alexopoulou from New Democracy. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the local government I and II organisations are the main pillar of the stability of the Greek society, the economy and democracy. With decentralized powers and resources, excellent knowledge of local issues and direct contact with civil society and its needs, they play a great social and development role and are at the forefront of action for the welfare of the Greeks. They must be able to accomplish their objectives directly and effectively, without oligopolistics, as citizens' daily lives are of the highest priority. Flamoring issues arise every hour and seek immediate solution and intervention. In this regard, therefore, the neuralgic for the progress and future of the country sector comes to intervene in this bill, solving the problem that the SYRIZA government has inherited us, introducing the simple proportional system as an electoral system and weakening local authorities. Because in the upcoming growth leap, for which the country is preparing, the central government, local government and Greek citizens as entrepreneurship bodies, social collectives, but also as units, are a chain of growth and progress. And you, gentlemen of SYRIZA - you're just two here - that chain you broke. With a high sense of micropoliticalism and as you had no hope of electing local leaders, you made a law that would allow you or at least you thought so, to run in the background, to choose minority combinations in municipal and regional councils and to impose them as regulators of the political scene. Because that is where your vision and vision for our Greece arrives. The party bumpers don't let you see any further. You did so on the grounds that you will find it difficult for the New Democracy, but in this way you only find democracy difficult. Because it is a myth, ladies and gentlemen, that a mere analogue is the most democratic representation system. When we do not add the name "adult", then it is no longer a myth, but a simple lie. A few electoral systems favour fraud as a mere analogue. Few electoral systems so unequivocally impair the bazaar and conciliation under the table. Pluralism and the composition of opinions are a fine theoretical approach, but in practice it collapses, because it favours not large compositions and majorities, but small minority groups, it produces doubling and complexion. But above all - and this is the major one at the moment - it produces powerlessness. In the years of its implementation it proved to be the most painful way for Greece and its citizens the inability of mere analogy to create strong municipal and regional authorities that will lead their place ahead with a certain and firmness. Where the election result did not give high percentages to the winners of the first Sunday, we faced as a state situations from difficult to strife, with a third of the municipalities in the country having a minority of municipal councillors, with mayors who had not even had enough consultants to carry out the necessary positions of responsibility to their municipalities, who had to implement programmes other than those for which they were elected, which they themselves appealed against the decisions of their municipal councils. And, of course, as I said, by majority voters who had to deal with them, with elected head of municipal classes who had fewer votes even than the last candidate for the mayor's combination. It can be for you in some mystery inconceivable way that it seems democratic. The reality is, however, that dozens of municipalities have remained unresolved for a long time without even being able to make their basic decisions. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the major opposition, you have an absolute responsibility. And be careful. We are not talking about vague political responsibility here. Anyway, that's why your ears don't sweat. The problem you have created is not just a political one. It's primarily developmental. It has had and had a direct impact on the economy and local entrepreneurship. Because of your choices and the delays they have caused millions of euros have been lost or, anyway, they are at risk of being lost from European and state funds because of the objective inability of local self-government to produce a project. Large municipal projects are being delayed and at risk by answerings. Thousands of merchants and professionals were unable to develop and strengthen their businesses and shops. Municipalities and regions are in many cases the largest employers in local societies, they are the engines of development, and you have deregulation of them. You hurt the citizens and Greece, not the New Democracy. It is therefore time for us to reset the machines of development in local communities by enabling citizens to choose those who really want and, at the same time, for the electors to be able to effectively run and implement their programmes. We are once again giving the power to self-government to self-government away from the time of the elections. We are introducing changes that substantially enhance the governance of the TAs. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you like it as a culture and as a political philosophy endless theory, unclear frameworks, endless discussions and analyses. Ultimately, you like the general debate, so that you can cover the poverty of a specific political programme, but also the ability of governance, so that you can survive in this political system. Fortunately, five years were enough for the Greek people, the public and private bodies and, in this case, the municipal and regional authorities that the country cannot be the field of experimentation by apprentices. It needs vision, knowledge, reading, hard work and methodicity, elements that escape you completely. In our effort to change the country's growth model, to combat unemployment and reversal the Brain drain regions and municipalities are also the catalysts, those who can channel the funds directly to the real economy, businesses, traders, the local society. And that is why we will again give them the power and the equipment to decide quickly and do even faster. Together with the interventions we have already made in the case of competitions, studies, supplies and public procurement, the OTAs once again gain their strength to solve the problems of citizens and develop their sites. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis builds day after day a new Greece and requires strong allies, autonomous local rulers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u296	Thank you for the time too. We are now continuing with Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos from SYRIZA, and we have two other speakers, Mr Boutsikaki and Mr Barkas, to complete the process for today. Minister, will you speak today?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u297	I'll talk to the closing so I won't interrupt the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u298	Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u299	The magic of self-government exists when the institutional framework that governs it, the powers, resources, the human resources and the functioning of its institutions proves in practice that it is the closest and attractive level of power for the citizen, when the institutions that serve it are planning actions, projects, interventions with the citizens, when they draw up participatory budgets, when they account for them openly, public for their actions, when they inspire their behaviour to actively participate in the public when they are on the side of the citizens during the crisis and address the issues that are open to their rights in a way that they understand they must also take initiatives to show that they understand social problems. And, of course, we must say that when the institutions operate to the long hand of government choices, self-government loses its prestige. Unfortunately, with the draft law we are discussing, the election of organs reproduces party enclosures even at the level of local councils. And that's something you could change. Because we don't have any delusions that you're going to change something important in your bill. At least, however, this could be withdrawn to show that you understand the criticism. The logic of the bill subjugates democracy in self-government to the needs of the New Democracy, which is aimed at 43% and is indifferent to 57%, as evidenced by the 3/5 bonus of seats. We know very well that mere unadulterated analogy is difficult. But, and the city of democracy, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult Ancient Athens has tried more easily, the aristocracy, the oligarchy, the autocracy, which makes rulership even easier. It has, however, resulted in the democracy, in consultations, in cooperation which was detrimental to the municipality's market. We choose the 51% majority as hard as allied governance is. We, as several colleagues have pointed out, have also exercised new governance on the basis of an enhanced electoral system. But we have reached the progressive governance of fair and sustainable development that we want and will serve it in an alliance of programming convergence with wide-ranging cooperation with other progressive, ecological forces. And within the framework of progressive governance, we will rethink this whole context with the arguments that sounded very well, with interesting speeches from a number of colleagues. Two words about Christos Sinanis, the honest, creative former mayor of Meteoros, who we recently lost as a victim of the disastrous pandemic. Christos belonged to the New Democracy, but he knew how to cooperate with honesty and political culture with all those who could help resolve important issues of the municipality. Have a nice trip. I am closing with an issue which is extremely important for developments in Greece and Europe. The pandemic crisis has caused a real shock in the thinking of the European leadership. The President of the European Parliament who came here, Mr Sasoli, acknowledged that the Recovery Fund and other interventions of the European institutions have understood that the neoliberal budgetary discipline pact must change radically. This is a serious development that is identified in the way in which important issues relating to a united Europe are underway. We must say that the leading protagonists of the memorial period had acknowledged that Greece was wrongfully wronged by the punitive logic that prevailed. When Renci, Holland, Moscovici, Solds, Mario Stendo, Zigman Gabriel, and even Jean-Claude Juncker, were recognized, it is absolutely irresponsible that the Greek Prime Minister should refer to the first half of 2015 as the 'dark period'. And that is what we want to point out, because in front of us it is a new era that needs to be understood that the issues ahead to make the changes required in the way Greece is in a united Europe require interventions which show that these moves are best served when there is the progressive model of governance. And finally when Germany has denounced cooperation of another type, there is a chance that the cooperation that will be of an alternative type may be green economists, social democrats, on the left with a content that finds convergences in a programming field. For what reason, ladies and gentlemen, we have to demonise with what you are now doing the search for the sloganal shocks that will lead both the country's self-government and the model of governance to be conducted with this difficulty of the alliances built on the credible sloganings. Because we are also at a time when all the points must be taken seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u300	And we thank Mr. Papadopoulos. We are now continuing with Mr. Butsikaki, and then he is Mr. Barkas, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u301	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of today's bill is to bring back and ensure rulership in the municipalities and regions of the country, always with respect for representation of all factions. As we had anticipated from the outset, the system of mere analogous that the previous government of SYRIZA voted for and implemented in the election of municipal and regional authorities had disastrous consequences for their smooth operation. Simple proportionally denied the possibility of efficient administration by preventing the elected mayors and district governors from exercising the policy for which they were voted on by the citizens. Mayors and districts from all over Greece, from all sides of Greece, have constantly pointed out the institutional, management and political problems they face in the administration of the OTAs and, of course, even in the decision-making process. The figures from all over the country show what is really happening, no matter what the Census is trying to convince about the opposite. Under the law of SYRIZA, based on the results of the last elections, in two hundred thirty of the thirty-three municipalities and six of the thirteen districts respectively, the mayor or the regional director does not have a majority of the members of the municipal or regional council respectively. For example, in the Municipality of Thessaloniki - you will know well, Mr. Kouvela - the mayor was elected on the second Sunday at 66.8% and received seven of the forty-nine seats of the municipal council. We also have a similar example in the Municipality of Orestiada, but also in many municipalities throughout the country. Because of the mere analogy to the vast majority of the country's OTAs, the elected mayors and regional directors do not have the majority and therefore have no chance of exercising the policy for which they were voted. Every time they are under pressure from all kinds of minorities or even extortion. The so-called simple, inappropriate analogy is not, in fact, simple, but neither inappropriate. That is why its abolition was a key commitment to an election for the New Democracy and the Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government is in favour of consensus, compositions, shocks, but not of political blackmail and unfair trade. Today we are putting an end to political blackmail ahead of a second round and trade under the table throughout the term of office. From now on, mayors and regional leaders will be elected more than 43%. This will also ensure a majority in the Council of Municipalities or Regionals. So we restore the system in place before 2019, as well as the five-year term. We do so in neutral political time, far from the next self-government elections, so that we do not even accuse ourselves of favouring some candidates. The promotion of multi-level governance of TAs is the next step, one which we commit to starting immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, the TABs must be able to operate quickly and effectively. With the draft legislation that we are voting on today, we are establishing a full legal framework for the Ottawas. We welcome local societies' request to elect councils and presidents of municipal communities, without exception throughout the territory. We are voting for the candidate procedures. We're streamlining the ballots of election. We shield the professional incompatibilities for regional authorities so that they are committed exclusively and in total to their increased administrative tasks. We guarantee transparency. We are ensuring that electoral expenditure is effectively controlled. Today's bill is an institutional part of local government. It is a bill for restoring the orderly functioning of the TAs, the governance, the development and fulfilment of their mission for the benefit of the citizens. It is a bill that frees local rulers from the hostage of simple analogy and enables them to make use of all the financial instruments at their disposal for the development of the municipalities and regions. If, ladies and gentlemen, we want the LAGs to operate effectively to serve the public interest without unfair transactions, without subjecting to micro-political and feasibility, this is the answer today. So I urge you all to vote on the bill we have discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u302	Thank you. Mr. Barkas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u303	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is under the events experienced by Greek society, the fear that has spread throughout Greece. Organized crime, unfortunately, is in full action, leaving its trail on streets squares and cafeterias. It undisturbed people's apartments throughout the territory with a absence of the government and even more absent by the Prime Minister himself, but also by the Minister of Police, who has said absolutely nothing. The "law and order" which Mr Mitsotakis has said proves to be "unlike and class of the mafia". The gap between the election promises and the work of the government is clear. Serious crime seems to have deep roots and the inability of Mr Mitsotakis' government to deal with it undermines the security of citizens. Today's bill, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, has brought about the fate that is brought by a Minister, the current Minister, who is not interested in democracy at all. From every ministerial court where he went, he tried to undermine democracy in the country. He is not interested in the will of the citizens as expressed by their vote. He thinks some votes are heterogeneous. That is why it introduces the counterfeiting of the electoral process by changing the result and by empowering some who do not have the majority. The New Democracy's proposal for electoral law continues the anti-democratic diversion that began with Mr. Theodorikos' first legislation in August 2019. And since then it has systematically demolished institutional democratic conquests in local government since 1974. In summary, the New Democracy effectively abolished the municipal councils, the regional councils, removing them all the main responsibilities and assigned them to the mayor-region and the financial committee controlled by them. It thus violates not only the European Charter of Local Autonomousity, but also overturns the Greek self-government acquis, according to which the main decision-making bodies are the collective bodies of selfgovernment. In an anti-constitutional way, it irreconcilably changed the arrangements for intra-democratic decentralisation provided for by "CLITHEN I" by removing the powers of local communities and the way in which their presidents were elected. Now with the proposed electoral law the most basic arrangements are the following. It introduces an absolute majority system that, with 43%, the first combination elects 60% of the advisers, the mayor and the district manager. And all this is because you want to bring election back to the municipal councils and the districts. Do you really, Mr. Minister - and Mr. Couvelas present here - do you know Mr. Psomadis? Mr. Papagoropoulos, do you know him? They are two members of the New Democracy. The first, Mr. Psomiadis, candidate for President of the New Democracy. These, then, Ministers, had won the election in the municipalities and in their district. What are these people? They are two of the many members of the New Democracy where they have financial irregularities with justice. They're accused of having the election, Mr. Kouvela, in Thessaloniki, from which you come. Because both have the election, due to the election, they are accused of debts created by the municipalities, but also of money they themselves have been seized by the municipalities. So because of the election. So it is this election - which you want to bring back - an unprecedented pan-European electoral arrangement that comes to abolish the moderate proportional system established by the 'CLITHENIS'. It effectively eliminates the self-sufficiency of local communities, by obliging their candidates to hang under a municipal combination and to depend on the central effect of the municipalities. In other words, it abolishes the third call that allowed thousands of citizens to participate actively in local affairs. It sets 3% as an entry limit to the distribution of seats by preventing the representation of small local forces. It reduces the number of consultants in all regions and increases the possible number of candidates to 150% of the seats in each TA. It is clear that the draft law seeks to establish and consolidate an authoritarian, opaque system of governance, controlled by the conservative party. The aim is to exclude progressive forces from the majority of OTAs, in accordance with the saying of Mr Vorides, the Minister: 'Since institutional measures have been taken, the Left will not be governed again'. That's what you're doing. That's what you legislate. This democracy is in your mind. Despite these trivial retreats, the bill is democratic, anti-government. SYRIZA's promise - Progressive Alliance must be and is that through an open and effective dialogue with all social, self-government, progressive forces and within the framework of a comprehensive reform for a large decentralisation with strong democratic self-government, the electoral system established by the New Democracy must change and change. We have a different concept of self-government. We want to free democracy, not encapsulate it as you do. We want to activate citizens to deal with commons. The great needs of local government cannot be met by electoral distortions, by distorting the popular verdict. We are voting against the draft law. We are defending democracy and the country's constitution. We resist you, to you who are undermining democracy and the constitution in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Barkas, who governs a municipality or a country decides on this, the citizens and the social forces who are developing and the social majorities, not a law on paper. The law helps rulership, not how social majorities form. Evidence of this electoral law which you have made in your actions, but three in the four municipalities at the moment have mayors from or supported by New Democracy and twelve in the thirteen regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u306	Blue the map!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u307	I repeat, the electoral law is there to help the rulership of the elected mayor and district ruler. It's not to shape their social majorities. These form the social programmes of political parties or candidate mayors and regional authorities. And I wish you had these suggestions and you could convince. At the moment, the proposals you are making are not persuasive, contrary to which your base is dismantling. Ladies and gentlemen, first trust. In order to build it, it is necessary for governments to respect their electoral commitments. In keeping with the explicit commitment of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we are now moving towards a deep section in the functioning of the OTAs, which combines vision with realism, transparency with functionality, the service of the citizen with good administration. The bill under discussion is part of it because, among other things, it puts an end to the conditions of integrity caused by SYRIZA's simple analogue card, which in many cases led elected local rulers to a special hostage regime. A hostage who, in turn, deprived the citizens of works and services that they are entitled to enjoy. So our aim is to restore governance to local government. We are actively addressing the disastrous consequences of the current system for the smooth functioning of the regions and municipalities. We are unlocking the bureaucratic procedures so that decisions can be made quickly so that the programme adopted by the citizens by their vote can be implemented and all the financial instruments available to us are exploited. I sum up the fundamental changes made by the bill. Firstly, a stable electoral cycle is being introduced for self-government, thus disconnecting the election of municipal and regional authorities from the European elections. In particular, the five-year term is to be restored. The mayors and districtlors who will emerge from the elections of 8 October 2023 will have a full five-year term starting on 1 January 2024. Secondly, the threshold for voting from the first round is set at 43% plus one vote. Thirdly, a 3% limit is set for the right to elect a municipal or regional consultant, which is independent of the number of members of the relevant council and in line with the applicable limit in the national elections. Fourthly, the election of 3/5 of the Board members to the winner of the election is ensured. Fifthly, there is provision for the election of councils or presidents of municipal communities throughout the territory without exception. A regulation responding to the relevant requests of local communities. And because there was a lot of talk about the communities in the committee over the last few days, I refer to the legislative improvements I made at noon. The political point is, however, that we are abolishing the fourth poll, not the communities. You confuse them and confuse them because you only care about the opposition crowns, not the responsibilities, and how they are exercised for the benefit of the people. Sixth, nominations can be submitted only by means of combinations and a statement submitted to the "gov.gr" electronic portal at the choice of the candidate with his fathername and mothername. Seventhly, in the context of the introduction of a stable electoral cycle in the course of the self-government elections, the second Sunday in October of the fifth year of each municipal period will be scheduled. The 31 August of the year of elections to draw up and declare the combinations and 10 September of the competent court to declare them to be fully audited and the candidates to be known to the electorate in good time. Eighth, the number of members of municipal and regional councils and municipal community councils is determined on the basis of specific population scales. There is provision for a rational reduction in the number of members with the aim of rationalising without causing any problem with the smooth functioning of the ATTs. I would like to point out here that, in response to certain concerns raised with regard to this provision before the meeting of the committees, and at noon on the legislative improvements, we have made targeted interventions. For example, the reduction in regional councils is thus limited to about 15%. Ninth, it rationalises the framework of election and incompatibility barriers, taking into account the comments made in the context of public consultation. Tenth, clear and complete procedural provisions relating to disputes relating to the OTA elections are recast. Elections of municipal and regional authorities shall take account of the permanent population as reflected in the results of the last census. Twelfths, according to the current President-in-Office of the Council during his term of office, is to suspend his professional activity. I note here that the main provisions of the draft law emerged after a fruitful dialogue with the institutional representatives of self-government I and II of the JRC and HRC, while in their processing they were taken into account - as I said - comments and comments submitted by bodies in the framework of the public consultation, as well as comments from the political parties at the committee's preparation meetings. The new OTA law fully implements the Constitution's requirement that self-government has serious responsibilities to improve the daily lives of its citizens and unfortunately the SYRIZA electoral law has resulted in a devastating fiasco because it has perpetuated a state of government in the OTA. This is best known by local government officials themselves. That is why many of them among them and many of them from the Civic Opposition support the changes that we are promoting today. With the vote of the bill under discussion, we put an end to the rule of law imposed by SYRIZA. I would remind you that one of the first changes we have made was to give responsibility to the Economic Commission of the municipalities so that the hands of the municipal authorities can be resolved and to be able to make decisions in the direction of the programme for which the citizens were elected by their vote in the elections. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the opposition say - not only the Qualification - that we had to change our powers first and then the electoral system. Really? Why didn't you, Mr. Zachariadis, for example, do Mrs. Likolis, Mr. Kamines all the previous years? What you have not done for years will be us and I will explain how and in what order. After a decade of economic crisis and fifteen months of lasting battle with the koroni pandemic, Greece is turning a page. Since the first moment the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis took over the country's governance, we have made rapid progress in implementing the election commitments for the area of self-government. We have, and we prove this in practice, to be a dynamic, practicable, coherent and comprehensive strategic plan for the regions and municipalities. At local and regional level, the improvement of the daily lives of citizens depends on the resources that government and self-government invest in making the lives of citizens better and this resource after many years are available, as, on the one hand, the Antonis Tritsis programme and, on the other, the National Recovery Plan total more than EUR 5.5 billion by making, as has already been said, a modern Marshall plan for selfgovernment, giving the municipalities and regions the opportunity to make a dynamic contribution to the relaunching of the national economy and, at the same time, changing the appearance of local societies. It is characteristic that the Multiannual Economic Crisis has resulted in a significant reduction in the institutionalised resources of central independent resources from institutionalised sources of tax revenues, such as income tax on natural and legal persons, VAT and HNPH and are attributed to the LAGs in order to ensure the financial self-sufficiency of local government. For example, from 2011 until today, with regard to the municipalities of the country, a cumulative reduction of 42% is reflected. This tendency to shrink is now dramatically reversed and the two major programmes are coming to overcome this deficit with multiplier development benefits over the next five years. The important step we take with the bill for the election of local and regional authorities is an essential step that will be combined with the next steps we are taking to equip self-government with all the tools needed for the proper management of local affairs and ultimately improving the daily lives of citizens. Firstly, we have been supporting the municipalities for as long as necessary. Last year we strengthened the municipalities with funds of EUR 187,1 million, while the exceptional funding for the previous months was EUR 50 million and, in consultation with the financial staff, we will help the municipalities again in the year to continue supporting households and businesses at local level. Secondly, we accelerate the implementation of the development programmes of the Ministry of the Interior "Antonis Tritsis" and "Philodimos II" by constantly integrating new projects that contribute to the recovery of our national economy and accelerate regional development. They are projects that finance the construction, upgrading, maintenance of investment projects and infrastructures that change the local face and create thousands of jobs at every corner of our country. Thirdly, we have made it clear that it is our intention to transfer the collection of ENVY to local government along with the reform of central independent resources, i.e. the money that self-government has a degree to implement its budget. I was amazed to hear, for the first time I think so clearly from SYRIZA through Mr Skourletis, such an absolute contradiction to the strengthening of the economic self-sufficiency of the municipalities that would entail such a transfer of property tax to the municipalities. And I heard from the New Democracy, from Mr Ceridis, a clear urge to move quickly on to this reform. Well, that's a clean talk. In any event, he proposed the transfer of HNVIA to the municipalities of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Our intention is to discuss this with the CDE in 2022, the year of reform of the CFP and for me personally the year of increasing the CFP so that all turmoil and inequality could be absorbed and normalized in 2022, as the value of the land in the Psychic and another in the eighty or very small island municipalities in our country and, of course, would be the height of the HOPIA that would be transferred to the municipalities. It is therefore a serious debate that will take place with the CEDEFOP in 2022, again one year before the election year 2023. This is all linked, of course, to the fundamental institutional change that we still have to do in self-government. I am referring to the chapter on multi-level governance, namely the clarification of responsibilities between the central state, decentralised administrations, regions and municipalities. This is a flagrant reform, a real innovation which, together with the new electoral system and the abolition of mere proportionality, aims to strengthen the institution of self-government. This conversation begins this month. I have heard from various rapporteurs, particularly from the Qualified Opposition, that we would have said that we would start and not start this debate. From the first moment we have told Maki Voridis as the new leadership of the Ministry of the Interior that we have various issues that the Prime Minister had set us as a priority. The law on internal control for ASEP was passed, the electoral law comes and is passed tomorrow for OTAs, we had the bill on the vote of Greeks abroad and the lifting of their restrictions, we have the teleworking bill that was tabled and we close this cycle with pet animals. In June and July we are discussing multi-level governance, with a view to having come to an end in the autumn. Maybe you didn't do it in four and a half years, but we'll do it in a few months. I would like to make it clear once again that for us the granting of additional powers to local government without the transfer of such resources is a gift free of charge, as Mrs Ephremidis has said, which I have heard before the New Democracy. The transfer of powers goes hand in hand - by transferring resources. This will put an end to the present regime of overlapping competences, which has unfortunately been shaped for decades, a regime which perpetuates the tragedies of the irresponsible, responsible, which prevents the improvement of the services provided in critical areas such as health and education, which makes citizens and members of local communities feel unprotected and, in many cases, leaves them unprotected even in the face of serious problems caused by dangerous weather and natural phenomena. It is not possible - I think we all agree - to discuss, for example, who has responsibility for the trimming of trees in 2021. We are therefore committed to clarifying all these issues and we are already doing so. The current government has shown that despite the crises it continues with reforms it is a strategic option for the government as a whole, and especially the Ministry of Interior, to offer as local government all the necessary development, institutional and financial incentives that will enable it to upgrade and modernise its operation in order to always make the lives of citizens better. We, the Government of New Democracy, have shown that we have both the will and the ability to implement innovative policies, despite the crises and challenges we face. We have shown that we are firmly committed to the principle: firstly, the citizen. As Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has said many times, our strategic direction is clear and clear. We want a public that will provide reliable, quick, transparent and friendly services to citizens. We want self-government that will not be the poor relative of the state or a simple watch of the central administration, but will have the prestige, the necessary resources and the necessary flexibility to make the lives of all Greeks better in whatever corner of the country. Our vision is a modern local government that will act as a strong pillar of development and social cohesion, an self-government that through the relationship of trust and cooperation with the central government will provide citizens with quality services. On these axes we have built the new electoral law for Ottas. We are strengthening governance because this will enhance efficiency and speed of response to citizens' demands. We're changing the map of local government because we want to change our homeland for the better. We are striving for the benefits of economic and social development to be shared fairly across all citizens, at every corner of the country, inclusive and discriminatory. The vote of the bill on the election of municipal and regional authorities is another brave and essential step to put on new bases the state's crucial relationship with citizens, a relationship that must be based on cooperation rather than on distrust, confidence and not on distrust, transparency and not on underground transactions, on mutual interest and not on the various short-sighted and intimate purposes. Our vision of local self-government for the separate localities "Elladas" in which each of us shows the way that leads to the chariot of the great Greece in which we are all living in Greece, the country that deserves to live, the first reason is the security, well-being and the advancement of citizens, all Greeks and Greeks, both at local and national level. Mr President, I should like to close with a reference to a plaque made by Mr Velopoulos in the morning with the stones and weights of Mr Velopoulos. The truth is, we raised large stones and didn't sink 15 days ago in the Castanes in Evros and for 15 months the pandemic. The government has never been hidden and the citizens recognize this and they have been around it with confidence as other polls show, even yesterday that it was published. Never in time existed in the middle of a government's term so absolute confidence in the citizens that we are in the right direction. Therefore, Greek citizens believe in the government this route and see it as an anchor of stability and security, not as a barbaric and see Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis as the captain who leads the ship ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Minister. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-01-S1-commons.u309	With the consent of the House at 00.14 the sitting for Wednesday, June 2, 2021, at 9.00, on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, continuation of the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Election of Municipal and Regional Authorities".
