ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] MEP Mr Ioannis Burnus sent a letter requesting permission from his absence abroad: " Mr President, please allow me to be allowed a short-day absence abroad, from 19 July to 21 July 2021, so that I can attend political events representing SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Yours sincerely Ioannis Burnus’. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Vice-President of the Government, the Ministers for Education and Religious Affairs, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, State Ministers, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Foreign, Health and Home Affairs, as well as the Deputy Minister for Culture and Sport, have tabled a draft law on 16-7-2021: 'School upgrading, strengthening education and other provisions'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informed us of the topical and urgent questions of today's sitting. We begin with our fourth question under number 936/9-7-2021 in the second cycle of MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theanos Fotou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "In the “air”, there are still hundreds of thousands of children and families left for the voucher program of nursery stations, creativity centres (CIDAP) and disability creativity centres (CIDAP) while with unacceptable legislation that you are issuing you are undermining the full-day school and creating creative employment centres (CIDAP) and two-speed workers." The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Domna Michailidou. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u4	Madam Secretary, at last with a long delay and with constant pressure, you have managed to take off the OHIM for nursery stations and from now on - and for only fifteen days - parents will be able to make their applications for vouchers. But in order to drown within the 15th century the news that thousands of children will be left without voucher this year, as was done last year with the sixty-five thousand children left outside the CSR, making this CSR unauthorized acrobatics. Note the dates: The first results will come out on August 9th. The objections of those who have been wronged will be made 10 to 12 August and 13 August you will make the final results, that is, Friday. I don't wonder how you didn't think of August 15th to take it off from the Virgin Mary. And then the people with their souls in the mouth, that is, the parents, will be looking for a place at a nursery station, while you still haven't published the list of daycare stations that accept vouchers. But this year, apart from the coveted voucher, it will be necessary for the parent to put his hand in the pocket, because for the first time with your OHIM, you are allowed to ask for additional money legally and it is stipulated that voucher will only cover the services provided. I ask, Minister, what these services are to a minimum. Now tell the parents what the minimum services will cover the voucher. And of course, it is inconceivable that you who are talking about free preschool treatment divide babies into two categories, those whose parents only have vouchers and receive the minimum service provided and those that parents will pay in addition from their pockets beyond voucher and receive more. The third important thing, however, revealed by KYA is that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, despite your dealings with investment in the child, reduced the budget from last year where SYRIZA gave it to her in 2019. We spent 279 million euros in 2019 for vouchers. Do you know how much you spent on all the evidence? You spent 259 million euros unless you don't have the numbers, Minister. Last year, 259 million euros! And you put a total of fifty-seven thousand children in CIDA and CIDA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u5	Mrs. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u6	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a second. At the same time, you have not yet issued the KHS of Law 4756/2020 for the exceptional establishment and operation of the CSR in schools, allowing municipalities to establish new structures and leaving the landscape for the existing ones, for the old ones. So I update my question as follows and conclude: Explain to me why your government does not put a further EUR 1 in kindergarten and CSR programmes this year. When are you going to take out the program for the civil servants' children? Like last year, November? And when are you going to publish the CRS for the exceptional accommodation of CSR in schools? And will you modify your inadmissible 2-6-2021 CSR, so that two speed CSRs are not created?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u7	Please, my colleague, you had the two minutes, you went to three and a half minutes. I would ask you very much to be brief about all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u8	I'll expect you to be so strict with everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u9	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Fotou, unfortunately, I have a problem with you every time. There are too many questions you ask, and the subject is not the number of questions, the issue is the absence of any logic that connects one question with the other. Anyway, every time you put this very difficult enigma to solve, how to connect the questions to each other. I'm doing my best. I hope I can do it somehow. You know - I think that today the invitation came out. The ministerial decision on the operation of nurseries has been made for days now. Today's the invitation came out. The invitation's coming out. What does the invitation say? It calls for the first time and for the beneficiaries of the ENARMONIS programme and the beneficiaries of the new programme. What's the new program? What our government got out of last year. What did our government get out last year? The so-called 'PARALLE PROGRAMME'. What did the "PARALLE PROGRAMME" do? Two things he did the "PARALLE PROGRAMME". The first thing he did in the "PARALOL OF PROGRAMME" is that he corrected a very great injustice. What is this very great injustice? That he incorporated women who were working in the public sector as beneficiaries of the kindergarten programme. What happened until last year and yes, not just from your own government that never corrected it? The same problem, the same injustice was done before, but certainly this injustice has not been corrected for five years. So what did we fix? That women who had the same income criteria and who worked in the public sector - the wide or the narrowest public - could not receive coupons for their children for nursery schools. So what did we do? I'm saying two things again. The first thing we have done is that we have increased horizontally the income criteria. So last year and this year, income criteria for a family with two children go from EUR 27,000 to EUR 33,000. You know, when a family can join this project not by 27,000 euros, but by 33,000 euros mixed family income is a very large breath for many families. How many? Fifteen thousand more families. And the second thing we did is that, in the breath of what we gave, namely the increase in family income from EUR 27 000 to EUR 33 000 for two children plus EUR 3 000 for every child added as a member of the family, we also incorporated these women with an indefinite or certain amount of time working in the public sector. So yes, we did. Today the invitation came out and I don't think any of our fellow citizens have in mind exactly what the date will be making the request. What our fellow citizens have in mind is to be able to apply. And this year they are applying for both programmes and without any supporting documents. They make the request electronically and the system can automatically draw up their data so that they do not have to produce any more supporting documents, but they can with these increased income criteria, as well as with the possibility that they now have as women working in the public sector, so that we can reach our goal that no children are left outside of a nursery station. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u11	Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u12	Mrs. Undersecretary, you may not really know what your schedule is. I have to denounce you that the new invitation issued by the EBRD today clearly states in its title that the programme for civil servants will follow. I'm so sorry you don't know exactly what you're doing to the ministry. That is unacceptable, Minister. This is the first time that the Minister is coming in here to misinform us that he has made it out for the civil servants too. Well, don't worry about that anymore. We're bored. You put five and a half thousand vouchers for disabled children last year when you knew that the jobs we had for disabled children were only four thousand and you were smuggling them. You are making these delays on purpose because you know that now thousands of children will stay out because parents' incomes have decreased because of pandemic and you do not increase vouchers. You discourage them from parents. Even the parents of disabled children, i.e. more than nineteen for CEDEFOP. Whenever you give, you seek legal support from parents and of course you legalize the payment from parents beyond the voucher they take. You have not answered exactly what you mean 'the services provided will be covered by voucher'. Listen carefully. It's the first time you legalize vouchers not to be exchangeable and always need the parent to put his hand in his pocket. Of course, as far as CSCE is concerned, I would like to tell you this about the housing of CSR in school rooms: this is a ridiculousness of your law. This is the first time that legislation has been mocked. A law says there will be no CPDs in school halls, and the law itself says we can change it with CPDs. We're waiting for this FDA, you haven't taken it off yet. So the municipalities that are ready at the moment to make new RDPs can't do it, because they won't be able to do it until you didn't take off the RAPD. But you're doing a worse thing. You're putting the CIA you've published out of schoolrooms. What did you do? You create a two-speed CSR: those operating within schoolrooms for six hours after the full-day and those that are out of schoolrooms for eight hours, resulting in overlap in the hours of the full-day operation. You left it seven months and created huge tensions between teachers and trainers of CIDS. You, on every legislative initiative, are creating a new problem instead of solving a problem. Can you tell me what you're going to do with this problem I've pointed out to you? And don't tell me anything else again. Because you have a problem of understanding, indeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u13	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, what we have heard has been written in the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u15	Everything is written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u16	Because for the first time I think we should show our force here. No more lie, Mrs. Fotou! No more lie! We're all here together for social affairs, all together we're here for child protection. All together. And I did not expect any party in the Greek Parliament to be against child protection. I won't say any more, I really won't say any more. You also challenge me with the words you have used and with the "love" - listen to a word that we hear in here! Please. Please. We all have a duty to defend child protection. And I come back and I'll talk to you again. How do we defend child protection?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u17	Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u18	Did you have five years of women working in the public office having coupons for kindergartens? Did you get them? No, you didn't. Did you increase the coupons?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u19	What does the EBRD call for civil servants?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u20	I hear about the disability. Is it possible for me to hear about the disability? To listen to me, doing this job in this disability ministry, and have we done everything we can to make active disability policies, take out the staff assistant, who we can bring in and join the Recovery Fund for the disability? CSMPs got 25% more coupons. What does CID mean? It means CSR for people with disabilities. Did we make a regulatory framework? Are we calling for accessibility for disability and for normal CFPs? We're asking for it. Did you ever do it? Oh, no. Why? Because you wanted two-speed people, one with typical growth, one for disability. That's what you wanted, Mrs. Fotio. And that's why we also put accessibility to standard development CIDs, so that all people can go to standard development CIDs as well. That is why we have also made a more specific regulatory framework for CSRs for disabled people. And you know what? Yes, we also care about the last euro that Greek and European taxpayers pay for. That is why we have taken a check on the spot and there is an electronic portal on the spot. However, I will continue to make the same abuse of my time, since you have done exactly the same. You say that the invitation for civil servants didn't come out today. Who informs you, Mrs. Fotio? Didn't you see the pre-publishment of the invitation to civil servants? That people with much higher income criteria, from EUR 27 000 to EUR 33 000, can apply today, have you not seen this? You haven't seen it. And if you haven't seen it, don't come here with the wrong evidence. At least come here without these figures, because the wrong figures and the Greek Parliament should not go together. In the evidence of what we have done about the CSFs and what have you seen, Mrs Fotio, that in this ministerial decision, which you characterise in so many ways - I will not even refer to this Parliament again, because it is a sacred Parliament - you have seen that we have changed the age limits so that anyone with a disability may be able to send it to CIDDs? It is no longer the limit of the incapacity you have had, which you paradoxically had, because you have neither had a primary nor a secondary regulatory framework for it. You tell me and you tell me completely syndicately, Mrs Fotio - completely syndicate, because two years later we know something now - about the alleged competition between full-time schools and the CSR. I and my staff and my team don't understand that. Twenty years there are full-time schools, twenty years there are CIDs. They're working similar hours. Was there ever any competition between the two? What do you suggest? In the eighty-eight CSR, which are currently housed in their own buildings, you propose this: you propose that the first shift be automatically abolished and that half the children who can be hosted should be reduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u21	Did I say that and I don't know?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u22	Yes, you, Mrs. Fotio. Do you know why you suggest it? Because what you're saying in your question - and give me two minutes to find it - and what you're asking is to cut half the first shift. What stems from this purely assembling purpose? It emerges that the first shift should be abolished automatically and that half of the children who can be hosted on the first shift should be reduced, so about a thousand workers who are currently full-time will see their working hours reduced to four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u23	Do I say such things, Mr. President? Where did he see them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u24	Please, Mrs. Fotou!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u25	The economic viability of Creative Employment Centres will be jeopardised, which will be unable to cover their expenses as a result of their residual function.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u26	Have you set up for the civil servants?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u27	So, Mrs. Fotio, reread what you've submitted, listen again to what you said and we'll be here to talk about it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u28	But I never said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. Mrs. Fotou, you were Minister. The procedure is specific. The Minister's talking...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u30	But I didn't lie like that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u31	Mrs. Fotou, I don't know who's lying. Lying is a big deal about who says it. I won't judge that. I won't judge this if you're lying or knowing about lies. What I am interested in is that the procedure must be followed. The Member speaks, the Minister answers. I am not judging either the Member or the Minister. I would ask you very much, Mrs Fotou, to behave in such a way as to be in the Chamber. Please. Nothing else. We move on to the debate on the second question under number 930/5-7-2021 of the first question by MP B1's Northern Athens Section of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: 'Concrete of the assassination of Zfi Valyrakis' and the second question under number 941/12-7-2021 of the second cycle of the MP of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: 'The need for the complete and reasonable time to close the death of Sfi Valyraki remains unsolved'. Questions refer to the same subject. They will be discussed at the same time, without affecting citizens' rights as regards their speaking time, in accordance with the provision in paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Placiotakis, Minister for Trade and other matters, in any modern country, with the institutions of administration and justice that are working normally, it would not be reasonable - and I would say it is understandable - that the opposition should control the government on a similar subject. However, with two clarifications I will give right from the outset, any unsavoury citizen who is following the procedure will understand, because today my colleague, Vassilis Kegeroglou and I are here, addressing you on a matter of human life that has been lost. The first clarification that is not made to hear from you, but to hear it from the citizens who are following us, is that for preliminary examinations of criminal incidents in a maritime area, the Port Corps and, of course, you are supervising this House. That is why opposition controls the government today. The second has to do with dates, Minister. On January 24, 2021, our dear colleague, friend and companion Joseph (Shef) Valyrakis leaves this futile world. On the 16th of April of this year, the first witness appears, who testifies to what he saw and does not lead to an accident, but to intentional or negligent homicide. And thirdly, only on the 12th of the current month of the saving year 2021, two people are called as suspects to testify immortal, who have already been named and indicated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In other words, since 24 January, while there are two statements - I will say about them in my dentistry - which shows possible homicide - I would say with the evidence and experience that they are showing homicide - the state responds through its services, which you are supervised on 12 July 2021, that is, several months later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u33	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u34	I'm closing, Mr. President. My question is, Minister, that is to say, by supervising these services, do you see that we did well or that something went wrong and that you too, having the responsibility, underline it, show it and take measures? If everything went well, you will be invited to reply to a number of points which I and my colleague will submit to our next speeches.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u35	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u36	We're waiting to hear you, Mr. Plakatakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the complete dissolution of the conditions of the death of Shefi Valyrakis is for us, as is understandable, of particular importance, but also for all citizens. We have important indications that this is a result, not a mere accident, but a criminal act. I must say that since the first days of his death, after 24 January, when we asked for the immediate winding-up of the case, you committed yourself, you agreed with us and said that you would do the same to make the matter fully clear. However, the preliminary investigation by the Port Parliament, which you are supervising, cancerd and retarded, in a suspicious and unacceptable way. From the outset, some wanted to create the image that this was an accident. They also described it as an "accident", apparently to close the file. The usual designation is ‘Allocated’. Where's the accident coming from? Two witnesses, as has already been said, have denounced categorically, showing in the direction of certain fishermen, who are reported on the critical day of quarreling and eventually killing Sage Valyrakis. We've filed with the Justice Department the full record of his family late with all the evidence. We will also testify to you for your knowledge. There are two reports in the case-file, both of the coroner, Mr Nikolaos Kalogrias, and of the authoritative professor Mr. Charas Spiliopoulos, who speak of strikes which may not be due to the propeller or other point of the vessel. The victim's family and lawyer, Mr. Fotakis, have been talking about trying to cover up. You have also been asked to speak personally. An application for infringement of the task of the port body has already been filed for serious oligopoies and omissions. I don't know if moving the port guard to Kymi is a admission and acceptance of this claim. But, firstly, I would like to point out that the porter in question has not been disciplinaryly checked, secondly, the video footage from the surrounding shops has not been requested, the movement of the vessel, which is a plausible, has been made without precaution and without safeguarding any evidence, has changed without information - very important - and interventions have been reported in the investigation, which have not been stopped until now, even with a pressure on certain critical witnesses for the content of their statements. After discussing our timely question on 28 June with the Minister of Justice as a follow-up to a written question, in which we asked for all information to be transmitted to the justice and the competent prosecutor, the prosecutor of Chalkidas, as his colleague said, gave a new order to call the two who were named as suspects in order to lodge a pointless statement and, of course, that the case-file should finally be given to the family and its lawyers. But it's too late. That is why we ask you, Minister, if you intend to check everything that has been done so far, to ensure that the relevant procedures are followed by the disciplinary bodies and what steps are taken from now on so that the port can contribute to the procedures provided for in the application of the D.A.'s order?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u39	Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u40	I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. I would first like to thank the two colleagues for their question. Interesting in the dispute of the case of Shefi Valyrakis is common, he was a politician who offered a lot. Since the first moment, the proceedings have been carried out exactly as they should be under the supervision of the competent prosecutor at all times. Justice follows its own rules because it must be its findings accurate, objectively and fairly. This is also the case in the case of the detection of the Sife Valyrakis case. I have full confidence in the strains of the Port Corps. After all, as pre-interviewers, they are always under the orders and instructions of the competent prosecutor, as I have full confidence in Greek justice, as I am sure you, ladies and gentlemen. That is why the process needs to be completed. It's not just a case. Justice walks along the road and is structured, but also systematically in the way it should be. Because you raised a question of possible oligopolysms or omissions on the part of the representatives of the Hellenic Coast Guard Corps has indeed been reported by the family, which in the 14-5-2021 out-of-court and disciplinary report has been forwarded to the Office of the Piraeus Maritime Court and is awaiting its outcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u41	Mr Loverdos has the floor again and then Mr Kegeroglu. I would ask you very much to be in time, because there are colleagues before and after you who have strongly called for the time to be respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u42	You've changed tactics, because we've been talking in greater comfort for two years?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u43	I don't know what you did two years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u44	I haven't happened to you, but this thing you do in two minutes tell us to finish...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u45	You were in three and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u46	In the end, I insisted. It's your thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u47	No, it's not our point, it's a question of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u48	Coordinate, because you're the only one...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u49	It is a question of the Rules of Procedure. You were a Parliamentary spokesman for three years, can you not know that he was for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u50	That's right, I'm not questioning it. But all your other colleagues are more tolerant.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u51	You were unfortunate to fall into me today. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u52	Only now you will allow me to conclude, because this is a serious matter, and it concerns a Greek citizen, whom you respect as much as I respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u53	You have the floor for three minutes, as you had three and a half in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u54	I will try to be more detailed this time and, Mr President, I imagine you will allow me to do so. Listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u55	I will allow you to do so within your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u56	And with a decency, I'll ask you. Mr Minister, the question addressed to you was very penetrating and sufficiently analysed. Your answer was to get us out of this. Everything's going well, we have complete confidence in everything, in everyone, in all the institutions of justice and administration, so let's change our sides and sleep quietly. You are speaking in the way you speak and I will become specific, repeating that the event took place in January 2021. The first official testimony to the Homicide Department of the Hellenic Police was made in April 2021, after another witness to the same day of the incident has been witnessed. And the calls under Article 31 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of two suspects to submit explanations are now in July. So everything goes very well, while there have been a thousand two actions by Mina Valyrakis, their children and, of course, their lawyers to the prosecutor of the Ice Bay, to the prosecutor of the Ice Bay, with complaints they have filed, with representations they have made to the Minister of Justice and to you personally. Seven months and "Everything goes well" and let's change side, because everything goes so well that we can sleep alone. I rarely submit documents to the House. Rarely. Let me do it once today. On March 29, 2021, the professor of coronary and Toxicology, Mrs Spaliopoulou, tabled a multi-purpose medical research. It's her. It's her, Mr. Placiotakis. I will testify, not all of her conclusion, but four key pages. The first, referring to her identities, and page six, on which she writes the following. Mr President, will I read it or will you interrupt me? After I read it, I want to conclude something. If you judge that I should not, let him stay in the Minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u57	Time...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u58	Time will not allow me, so I would ask you, with your permission, to read this out of the limit. I had a reason to make the previous introduction. If you can give me...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u59	Why are you embarrassing me? This is Mrs. Fotio a moment ago...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u60	I'm bringing you in, because we have a very difficult matter. Man's gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u61	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u62	I asked you to. Tell me 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u63	What can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u64	Tell me 'no' or 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u65	You have your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u66	My time is up, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u67	What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u68	Wait a minute for our debate. Can I read something, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u69	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u70	You're asking me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u71	I'm asking you. The Minister has no objection. I want people to hear it. Let me do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u72	Go and say it somewhere else, if you think...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u73	"From shape says..." - Means this shape, Mr. President and Minister. I do not read it all because I am not allowed by the President-in-Office - '...it seems to me that the person has suffered boredom in various areas of the body from the right and left to the face, from the left to the neck, as well as on the back of the body, left elbow. The two wounds on the oblivious surface of the left thumb and left index have been caused by a sharp organ and appear to have been caused by attempting to capture a corrosion - a cut-off instrument with its hands. Finally, the head in the wetland has been bored or impacted on an intangible surface.’ Last sentence: "If we accept that two of the facial injuries have been caused by a vessel's propeller, then the other organs with which the other injuries have been caused remains to be found. If there are indications from these bodies, there will be an additional report on the evaluation.’ I'm filing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u74	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade. You've reached four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u75	I close with the following phrase. When this is submitted to you - to the authorities you are supervising - on March 29, when a witness has pre-existing against whom the Portian organs are practicing, when the next witness comes, first Mrs Nikolaouli and then to the Humanities Department, who saw it - two eyewitnesses who saw it - and say that someone beats it, is public justice and above all administration to say that 'all is going well' and that there are still no criminal prosecutions?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u76	You've been in five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u77	With your service's responsibilities - I'm not saying names, even though they are well known - you need to take your measures now. You may be supervising a circuit that does all this for other reasons, Minister, at the expense of an honored man, his family, his wife, his children, who do not see them enthusiastically and with excitement to such an offer to react in exactly the same way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u79	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u80	Mrs. Fotou denounces me from below for the time you took.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u81	I claimed it and I did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u82	No, you didn't claim it. The way was wrong...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u83	I didn't report anyone. I ask the Chair for an apology to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Loverdos did something that he thought might win. That's not a reason now, because we're gonna get us wrong in general. We're in other proceedings now, and we're gonna get misunderstanding. I'm not going into this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u85	Mr. President... (It has not been heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u86	We'll tell you some other time. Please. I don't want to. We're from the same party, we don't have to be two villages. There's no need. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u87	You offended me as a former minister. Mr President, let them go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u88	Please, Mrs. Fotio. I understand. I would like to say that you are absolutely right and I am very sorry. I'm telling you right away that you're right! What you said about time is that you are right. But I say to you that this is a special case and I do not want to go to other matters now. There's no need. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, of course, we understand both the secrecy and the independence of the preliminary investigation as a stage in the criminal proceedings. The rule of law describes and imposes the procedures to be followed and the rules governing them. However, Minister, you have the power of disciplinary control of the Port Authority and of the process being observed. What you did not tell us is what was not done but what was done in the way that was done, if you have made sure that the disciplinary procedure was initiated at all, not only after the complaint by Mrs Papatheodorou - Valyrakis and the family of the whole or then our own indulgences and political pressures. The fact is that the prosecutor of Chalkida has given a new order for the two who were named to be called as suspects. Why didn't that happen in the first phase? What we have actually seen is prevent witnesses from testifying and forced to resort to the homicides of EASA to testify, it was a matter of great shadow that does not honor the port, this service. So what we are asking you to do today is to have all the knowledge of all those who have not happened and those who have not happened, if, in cooperation with the relevant bodies, you are, of course, making sure that all aspects of the case are fully dismantled, disciplinary control and the respect of the new order, in a way that leaves no margin for misinterpretation. Of course we all have confidence in the institutions, but when they work. When they do not work, there are again the institutional procedures provided for in order to prevent both diversions and gaps and omissions. It will be seen from the result, Minister. We had gladed Genaris when you committed yourself as you were today with your initial position. Except that this position of yours and your statement must be consistent and in practice seen with actions and projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u90	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would once again like to express my confidence in Greek justice and also in the members of the Hellenic Coast Guard who conducted the preliminary investigation and I hope that we will soon have final answers. You said there's a delay. There's no delay. It is the time required by the pre-examination process and the judicial authorities in order to complete their work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u92	We continue with the third with number 937/10-7-2021 top-level question of the first cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Saint of Zakynthos, constant violation of the public interest". Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is the second question I ask about the wider issue. My first question was to Mr Georgiadis, who, when we presented him with the data from the Athens Chamber of Commerce, which substantiates the criminal responsibilities of the company that he bought - supposedly - as an enthusiast of Qatar in 14% of the island of Zakynthos, said from this position that you sit down that I am not interested in, I am not interested in the case, let them do what the Zakynthos think, if they want to eat oak and do not want the investors, let them eat oak. I come to you now, because you had asked for this investment, which if it were not implemented, as Mr Georgiadis said, the Zakynthians would eat oak, i.e. the acquisition of 14% of the island. And I want you to tell us if you continue after the revelations to agree to that question then. But now you come and bring "Navy S.A.". Have you chosen from all the regions of Greece the same area - this time the beach "Navyo" - making a private public company that can operate, legalising an exceptional building, expanding the surrounding areas with no limit, without having set a limit, being able to make special urban regulation and special urban planning in the Aegean Sea - to build what? - to be able to do PPPs and therefore to lose management of the area in effect. And you're really doing all this to go through with a miniature and keep the wreck on the beach, the ship that has chartered on the beach? I want you to explain why they don't make sense, Minister, and you really need to give the first explanations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course I do not understand the logic of questions on a bill that has been put into public consultation and is coming to Parliament. Here we shall also be, Mr Arsenis, and I, to follow the legislative procedure. Parliamentary control is not a privileged control, a privileged procedure. We will have a committee, we will have time, you will be a parliamentary representative or rapporteur of your party, perhaps on the issue of this bill. It's a very important bill that will have a lot to do with the rescue of the shipwreck, so I don't even understand the subject of this conversation. In any case, I am going through this and I will try to talk about the substance. Is there a shipwreck? Is there a shipwreck right now? I'll answer for you: There isn't. There is a decision of the municipal council that forbids tourists to go to see the shipwreck because it is not safe. There's no shipwreck. If a bill does not come, if nothing happens, the shipwreck does not exist. The second most vocalised point of our country after the Acropolis does not exist. What do we want with the wrecks and the tourist attractions? So we can shut it down because it's unsafe? To get people to the cliff and die, as happened in SYRIZA? So he could come in the winter to break in half and take the wave away from us?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u96	Did they die on SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u97	Yes, they were. They fell off the cliff, unfortunately. So that's what we want to keep going? If you want this, I don't want it. In any case, this bill will come to rescue the shipwreck of Zakynthos, a tourist resource of national importance. Because he is not afraid of this ministry under this political leadership to solve the problems that are dating and leaving. So things are very simple. I do not want to explain much more than two points that are important in relation to criticism. Leave some shadow in relation to the investment not made in an adjacent area. This investment has nothing to do with what we do. The shipwreck is located in a zone of Agialou and the beach. The almighty has even been perfected. From the Constitution - you know that much better - the cavalry belongs to the state and not even to local government. It belongs to the state. Therefore, his management does not enter into any claim of the Church, as you refer to your question as a "lawyer" of the Church or anything, in relation to the shipwreck. We have nothing to do with the investments, whatever they are, and where they happen on the rest of the island. What we are dealing with is the maintenance, maintenance of a national resource, which will always bring tourists to the island and thus help the entire local economy. After all, the fact that the local society and the local economy have welcomed and at last saw it with a relief, with a sigh of relief for our legislative initiative, I think it says it all. The second thing you say in your question, and you did not stress it for some reason, is that you are telling us that this company, which works for the sake of the public interest and does a management of the shipwreck and the area, just to ensure it, just to protect it and just to make the best use of it, will derogate from the rules on sanctuary and forest law. You know very well, because I trust your ability to understand the bill - obviously, deliberately you say it - that the purpose of the company is the administration, management and general exploitation of the demarcated hayal zone in the context of the existing law on the protection of the sanctuary and all it does is that those who are already there are considered and can be derogated so that the temple itself, which has not been declared inconsistent, cannot be legalised and can be done whatever works must be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u98	Thank you. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, let me remind you that it's not about the Church alone. It concerns two hundred families the issue of the famous investment of Qatar's emir, which the Qatar Embassy itself said had nothing to do with it. This company is currently in the Virgin Islands. In any case, you didn't answer for her. You're saying it's not related. You did not answer if you continued to support it. You're saying it doesn't work the shipwreck. You will know, of course, that it works and that there are people who are massively going by boat. It works very much and it continues to be the main state for tourism in Zakynthos and it is the resource you want to privatise. You're making a special town plan. You're preparing PPP. That's what you say in your bill. You exclude the legalization of arbitrarily by the laws on sanctuary. It will extend as long as the investor needs, this area backwards. What exactly are you going to do over there? It does not apply that, in order to save the chartered ship on the beach "Navyio", you will do PPP, EXTERNALE, special urban, derogations and all of this. Otherwise, you have to make an anonymous company, to raise the "SEA DIAMOND" from the bottom of Santorini, you have to make an anonymous company for every thing. Is that what you're gonna do? You guys are doing a company here. Mr Georgiadis told us that, if the Zakynthians do not want to eat oak, the investment that the court has said is based on a clean fraud. Are you telling us now that if the Zakynthos want to see the beach 'Nayayo' again, it should be privatised? What about Zakynthos? What we see is that we have a second chance to implement the projects of some investors who have gone to do with the virtual acquisition of over 14 thousand acres, over 14% of the island of Zakynthos, and now they go and focus on the "fillet" and have the opportunity to expand. Show us that this is not the case. Show us we're wrong. Included in this bill a special town plan, what will be built? Do you need to build up to paint the shipwreck of Zakynthos with a miniature? What are you going to build with the special town plan? Included in the plan what? What are you going to do with the PPP? Will it give a private man to manage the shipwreck because he'll paint it with a mini? Tell us why we're really trying to get in this conversation. Give us a reasonable basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u100	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u101	Now, you keep asking the same questions. I can't explain it in a different way. A PPP may also make a ministry, not just a public limited company. This is a public company which will manage the number one larger attraction after the Acropolis, tourist attraction, because the Acropolis, of course, is a cultural attraction. It must be able to do projects, ensure this resource for tourists, the national in fact, national in scope. Every year we make outlets to Turks who advertise Turkey with a picture of the shipwreck. We're talking about such a great attraction. So we will do what it takes. Now, these oak trees you keep telling us, I'm telling you that this has nothing to do with it, because from the law it stays only on the cavalry and on the beach, that is to say on anything that is constitutionally guaranteed as public. It will manage on public terms, with the flexibility it needs of course and with the possibility of protecting this resource. So it is very important to make that clear. I repeat: there is no shipwreck, because those who go illegally are going, since there is a decision of the municipal council that no one should be approached, because it is not safe to get anywhere close to this place. Here we are, I'll see you again. I have a minute, one and a half, and I want to take advantage of it, precisely because safety is at the forefront of the news of tourism, with the tolerance of the President, because the whole world is talking about this kind of issue. So the Greek tourism product is safe because we put security at the center of the product. This is not by chance, it is by day-to-day work and the reason it is being done is because we are constantly above and assess a dynamic situation and we take the appropriate measures. We never promised anyone this summer would be easy. It's not easy. That is exactly what stands out for our country and here and there in the case of Zakynthos. And here we are upstairs and we do whatever it takes. We work with Civil Protection and, where necessary, we put more quarantine hotels every week where the Civil Protection tells us that it is important. The very important thing, of course, is that the pressure on the health system does not increase, and that is what we see and is happening. What is more, the increase in the United States, for example, and in New York, in areas which are also vaccinated, such as Israel, are due to tourism? Of course not. Is the increase in non-Tourist countries or countries that have closed their borders due to tourism? Of course not. The increase in reality throughout the world is not due to tourism, due to the "Delta" mutation, a pandemic within the pandemic. We will be here to make the right decisions. For example, there was a weakness in being able to transport by boat safely people who come out positive to the coronary. We asked doctors to suggest a methodology. We cure it, we fix it. The people - and that is what they say - want the measures to be complied with as properly as possible, as possible. I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u102	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u103	And here I'm not talking to you politically. I'm not talking about whether the citizens who vote for us want to be kept. I'm talking tourists. Tourists who come when they do not see proper compliance with the measures point to it on their websites or elsewhere, such as Great Britain. The government will therefore do everything possible to ensure that the measures are respected. After all, this is what I am asked on all the journeys that I have gone: 'Would you allow things to flow?' Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u104	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u105	The proof that this government only puts people's health first is that we are not afraid to take difficult measures. We'll keep doing that. I'm hanging up, saying one last thing. There are no cancellations in Mykonos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u106	Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u107	We must say that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u108	You say it, but we've reached five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u109	One more minute, I am, Mr President. It's not a problem. There are no cancellations in Mykonos. There are only cancellations in the imagination of those who distribute or write these things. People want security. And with the president of the hotel and professionals on the island I spoke. The cancellations remain just like they were in the past few days. There's no one...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u110	They say 20 percent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u111	Only those who want to create impressions say it, as you might do, because even here, now, you are reproducing these publications.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u113	So we will continue on this difficult road, as the responsibility we have taken is imposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Minister. We all hope that everything will go well, because I think we all want no cancellations and the tourist season to roll smoothly. We continue with the first with number 931/6-7-2021 topical question of the first cycle of SYRIZA's Athens - Progressive Alliance Mr.Nikolaos Friends to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "A major step towards the regression of the extremism of social sciences and artistic education from high school". The timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr MacKari. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. The veining of social sciences and artistic education from high school is a mutilation of education. In social sciences you have reduced the hours of one, of Political Education in the First High School, and, Minister, you have abolished three lessons, the Modern World, the Citizen and the Democracy in the Second High School, the basic principles of social sciences - theoretical course - in the Second High School, and, of course, since this year you have abolished the universally tested Sociology lesson from High School, without, in fact, sociology being transferred to general education courses, as has been the case for many years. And, though, you could maintain the two lessons with parallel teaching, as is the case, for example, with biology and mathematics in other directions. As Mr Georgiadis had said, your colleague in the government, Sociology is a left lesson and the Latin lesson on the right. Nonsense. Your insistence to abolish Sociology at a time that is strictly necessary reveals the model of school that you want to create: anachronistic, backward, away from social struggles and needs. I'm not saying that. The British Social Society sent a letter to Mrs Kerameos, which was never answered. I submit it for the Minutes, to be here in the Minutes of the Greek Parliament. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the letter says: "Society cultivates research and knowledge, which are very important for the development of social consciousness and social intelligence". And they add British sociologists: “As we face the effects of pandemic, mass refugee flows, inequality, growing mental diseases, sociology is required to be the basis for planning effective solutions.” But you speak another language. You are not talking about the language of social solidarity, and this is reflected in your legislative initiatives that exacerbate social inequalities and do not even convince them of the need - which is necessary - for their vaccinations. Do you suddenly want all citizens to understand the need for vaccinations, which are necessary - I stress - which only has the individual health of vaccinated people, but not the social responsibility for the health of the others? It is obvious that you share hundreds of thousands of young people to buy them out, but you do not think to fight the values of social solidarity in youth and society. This social language, do you want our children to know? Your decision to expel the lessons of social sciences, in addition, creates reasonable concern to thousands of teachers who see their organic positions falling and remember the Memorandum of the availability of thousands of teachers, which the SYRIZA government abolished. Really, what has the EPA recommended to you about Sociology since this year?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u117	I shall conclude, Mr President. Along with the humiliation of social sciences, it is also dedication and artistic education from high school. You drew up the selection course of the First High School and displaced the lesson of the Free and Linear Plan outside teaching hours. In fact, of the about a thousand five hundred candidates this year for the LAG who gave a project, how many had been taught at the public school...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u118	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I ask the Government: will you reinstate the lessons of social sciences and, in particular, sociology and will you reintroduce artistic education in the high school timetable?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u122	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes. Please, be within time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try. I shall reply to the question from my colleague and I shall do that I have not heard these on the left and right courses. Honestly, I wanted to say that I was a little confused with SYRIZA's attitude to the issue of vaccination. Let it be. I'm coming to your question. Our Ministry, Mr. Colleague, reshapes the educational system as a whole in such a way that it better meets the conditions and needs of modern times. Already, since September, our school will further enhance skills culture through a holistic educational approach to all types of school units. The strengthening of the skills of pupils and pupils is through thematic modules resulting from global indicators of sustainable development, the environment, living, security, civil society, modern technology and entrepreneurship. Skills are strengthened in such a way as to develop critical thinking, digital literacy and the best learning of foreign languages. With Law 4692/2020 and the targeted sectors that it has contributed to all levels of education, it is attempting to modernise the content of education, its qualitative upgrading, so that all necessary facilities are provided to our students for their development and careers in every area of their lives. The current high school and general high school timetables were redefined by Ministerial Decisions of 12 June 2020 and 15 June 2020, following the relevant recommendations of the Institute for Education Policy. As you well know, Mr Colleague, the Institute of Education Policy, within its competence, has recommended to our Ministry the new timetables, in accordance with the act of 28/5-6-2020 of the Board of Directors. The current timetables for the general high school were redefined by the Ministerial Decision published in the FEK on 15 June 2020. The new timetables were the result of a conscious effort to strengthen classical writings and classical education on terms that always place the student and the student at the centre. The curriculum shall place particular emphasis on the culture of creativity, imagination, values, democracy and equality, the notion of citizen and state, sustainability, solidarity, awareness and acceptance of diversity. It is also important to formulate and develop European awareness through in-depth acquaintance with European history and culture. At the same time, language is strengthened not only as a means of communication but as a background for the acquisition of skills, values and attitudes. With this in mind, our Ministry has launched an initiative to draw up new curricula, in collaboration with the relevant scientific body, i.e. the IEP. The Institute of Education Policy is preparing an integrated proposal and implements the acts of upgrading the curriculum and the creation of primary and secondary education materials and entitled "Training of teachers in the curriculum and primary and secondary education materials". As part of the preparation of the new curriculum and the revision of existing programmes, we will also reach the necessary arrangements for the timetables in high school and thus for the regulation of the timetables for all cognitive objects. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u124	You're welcome. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes. Please, be within time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. I won't be long. First, you're wrong, Minister. SYRIZA from the beginning fights to vacate Greek society and to abolish the patent and to make vaccines come faster around the world. We're fighting this fight. Please leave the splitting and easy words to divide Greek citizens. We need, like breathing, to convince the world not by police measures to get the vaccination. I'm on my way now. You talked about reforming school, and you talked about skills, groups. That's your problem. You compare skills in education and education, because skills are good, especially social skills, through groups. And we asked for it to be done in all schools and not just in the standards, and now I see that you are moving on to this. However, this is not in conflict with education and education. Education and education are necessary at school and the subject of artistic aesthetic education is not a matter of skill. It's a matter of child education. The issue of sociology and social sciences is not a matter of skill, it is a matter of education, the formation of a modern and democratic citizen. You're ignoring it. You're underestimating it consciously. I'm sorry. We have democracy and you underestimate the lessons that children teach the concept of democracy and the concept of social solidarity. You also said a lot of things. I tabled the letter from the British sociologists to Mrs Kerameos. He hasn't responded in a long time. I filed it in the House for an answer. You heard what I said. You did not need to speak because, of course, it was not in the manuscript that you read. But this is important: A valid international scientific organisation, the British sociologists, ask the government why sociology has been abolished now necessary because of pandemic, climate change, etc. No answer. On the subject of the EPP, too, I did not hear an answer. But you know that the sociology course will be abolished last year, a year, and even the EPA will tell us whether it will be replaced and with what lesson and what hours in High School III. Or will this lesson go to rain and there will be no government's initiative? I'm sorry. I don't dare think that our children will learn nothing from the subject of sociology. It is - and I conclude with this, Mr President - disappointment in government policy in the field of education. Every day we see it in the faces of children and parents. We can see this everywhere in the decisions of teachers who, in three major cases, voted against government initiatives with 93%. And on this issue of aesthetic education in artistic courses and the social education of children with Sociology you are again accountable for, because you are building a school that is inconsistent with the needs of a democratic and modern education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, as you have pointed out, we do not see it at the Ministry, and we do not see it in polls that are carried out and in statements of what public opinion wants. And before I start answering your question about artistics and social sciences, I will tell you that in the battle for vaccination, you haven't thrown all your weapons away. And if you shot them, they don't shoot everything in the same direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u128	What's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u129	Don't say such things. They're sensitive things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u130	Here's the attorney. Does Mr. Friend need your support? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u131	Madam Minister, please just a moment. Mr. Giannoulis, please very much. The sensitive will be judged by anyone. Mr. Minister and your colleague, Mr. Friends, spoke. No one interrupted him. The Minister's speaking. Please let her finish and those who listen to her will judge her. And Mr. Friends will then take out the announcement he wants and the Minister will speak the way he wants. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. When they're ministers, they speak last. What can we do? Mr. Friend who was Minister has heard about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u132	Life is hard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u133	I don't know if it's hard or not. Well, it's a reality. Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u134	It's not really for you. However, on the sensitive issue of vaccination, Mr Philis was first placed and I had to answer to restore the truth. Our Ministry, Mr. Colleague, further strengthens the skills of students and students through a pedagogical approach and special courses, such as design, music and foreign languages. For many years both musical and foreign language courses were considered in the pan-Hellenic exams without any preparation from the public school. Now, for the first time, we have introduced the possibility for all these courses to be taught at the public school in the context of the strengthening teaching of special courses. From research into international educational reality, one can see that these lessons are also emphasised, above all, in high school, as opposed to those of us who want to strengthen the teaching of these courses by primary school. For the courses of the Social Sciences, there was a recommendation from the Institute of Education Policy for changes in the timetables. The basic change came from the replacement of sociology by Latin. It is a shift in humanitarian studies, which, as you know, was a pre-election commitment to the New Democracy programme. However, in our Ministry, recognizing the value of the social sciences courses, we are planning through the relevant body, i.e. EPA, the extension of the class of Social and Political Education of the Third High School by one hour, so that it is taught for a total of three hours on a weekly basis already in the coming school year of 2021-2022. We are also moving towards enrichment of all the curriculum and social sciences with a new approach and special emphasis on cultivating the critical thinking of students and students. With regard to courses of artistic education in high school, in particular in the Free and Linear Plan, which are specifically universally examined, it is noted that Article 14 of Law 4713/2020 establishes the programme of their supportive teaching. This new programme includes students and students in the 3rd general and professional high school, special education and training courses, as well as in the 4th class of special vocational schools and high schools who wish to study in individual special courses at the pan-Hellenic examinations, in order to attend the respective schools and higher education courses. Therefore, as far as the examinations were concerned in Greece are concerned, the Free Plan and the Linear Plan, our Ministry with the Ministerial Decision published on 2-2-2021, restored their teaching in the form of aiding teaching in the third grade. The same applies to Harmony Musical Courses, Audiovisual Capacity, Musical Concept and Knowledge, which are taught for the first time. The Class of Artistic Education of the First Class of General High School was a lesson in choice and not a compulsory lesson. Students and students selected one of the four selection courses offered, Computer Applications, Geology and Natural Resources Management, Greek and European Culture and Artistic Education, Arts, Music, Theatrology. In this course the participation of pupils and pupils was extremely low to nonexistent. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u135	Your turn has come, Mr. Giannoulis, now say what you want. The third question will be discussed, then, under number 6650/608-17-2021, and a request for documents of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP I Thessaloniki of SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance Mr Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Deposit of the value assessment report of the Greek Urban Transport Organisation (OSTH) in accordance with Article 25 of Law 4482/2017". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, thank you very much. I will not follow the negative example of Mr Theocharis who has come to give us financial support in this Chamber by removing the mask. I'm going further. Nor will I comment on the unreliability recital which has been unreliable since the morning and on other committees, in the Committee on Production and Trade. But I'll stay in something in time, so I won't cause you any trouble. I knew, I knew in advance that the political leadership of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which has a large and negative credit for unreliability, will exist instead. I did not expect to write - unfortunately for me - Mr Kefaliannis - because I appreciate him - what happened between Saturday and Sunday, about how reliable the political leadership is, and especially the Minister at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, when on Saturday with an article in the “NEA” he describes how happy the people of Thessaloniki are by seconding, with barbarity, with the crime of the secondment of the ancients to Venizelos and comes on Sunday - oh of the miracle! - a survey published in "Macedonia of Sunday" - it is not the publishing complex of "AYIS" - and says that 62% overwhelmingly of the citizens of Thessaloniki, whom Mr Karamanlis appears to be satisfied, asks to stay the ancients at Venizelos Station and "at last, finish the metro!" Says 71%. That is the sign of unreliability, and that is why the question, which, Mr Kefaloyannis, comes as a timely one, has not been answered when Parliament's control is required where you are giving us refuge in order to reply to us. We do it and you don't answer us. He replied to the Ministry of Finance in relation to the assessment report on the assets of the OSTH. It is a procedure provided for in Law 4482/2017. It had to be delivered six months after the international competition with a contractor named Grant Thornton - you know her, I imagine - we've arrived July 2021. And our question with sincere interest is whether it has arrived in your hands at the Ministry of Infrastructure, the second partner of the OSTH, the Ministry of Finance, who in his answer says "we haven't taken it", has it arrived or not? Is there anything you need to tell us? We're asking you to testify to us. Can we start with this and then unravel the rest?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u137	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, I recognize your sincere interest in the issues of public transport in Thessaloniki, your city. Besides, it makes sense to refer to that. But let us agree that at least in the past twenty months there has been an improvement. I believe that the figures prove that. I would remind you - and I will come to the question very quickly - that if we take the summer programme, the moment we speak of the two hundred thirteen vehicles of July 2019 is about four hundred and if we take the winter program the two hundred thirty vehicles that were released in Thessaloniki during the winter months of 2019 and 2018 have reached four hundred and six hundred and sixty. So, at least, the Thessalonians can say that at the level of public transport, which is the subject of your question, they have indeed seen an improvement. The question is if it could go even better. Of course it could go better. I am the last person to say that everything is perfect in the country and, in particular, with regard to public transport. From there on, however, I think you should also at some point recognise the efforts that have been made, I repeat, especially in the last twenty months in a very difficult environment in the middle of a pandemic. I come to the OSH report. I can also agree on the importance of the OSTH value assessment report, but not only to highlight the general issue of financial management, or whether you prefer the management of the organisation as implied in the question, but why four years after its statement, I think the Greeks and, above all, the Thessalonians need to know exactly what the Greek public has bought, as well as talking about statement, at least as happened in the governance of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks. You will agree with me, although I am not sure that you will admit that the procedure followed is rather paradoxical. I'll explain it. Usually when you buy a company, before you buy it, you have to value the assets of what you buy, whether it's called a state-owned or a simple market. And I think it doesn't have to be an economist to think about it. He needs a simple logic in this part. But what happened in the case of the OSTH? Just the opposite. First there was the process of statizing the organization and then it was asked to be valued. And I think that this development alone was sufficient to undermine which - I would say goodwill at the time - an attempt to rationalise the organisation itself. And, of course, the consequences of this, I would say irrational management or the way in which it is handled even today, both workers and the administration and, of course, the shareholders at that time. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I won't abuse time. To reply to you, this report has been completed, delivered in due course - I will also submit the documents which prove it - and, of course, you will also have it in your hands as soon as the necessary legal actions are completed. I'll explain to my denture so I won't be late. The contracting company, such as the ‘Grant Thornton’, as you mentioned, delivered it to the administration within a deadline of February 2020, was received by OSH by the relevant administrative act a few days later, i.e. on 11 March 2020. In the rest, so that I don't delay you, I'll answer my dentistry. However, he's received and he's come to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u139	Thank you. Mr. Comrade, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u140	Minister, I really amazed at your cynicism. At the moment, you are telling me - I do not know if it is on the verge of infidelity or violation of duty - that one of the two partners is aware of the report, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the latter, in response to the minutes of the House through parliamentary control ignores this report. This, by definition, leads to the third bad conclusion, that it has not been submitted to the Athens Court of First Instance, as foreseen by the law that we had to prepare and testify, because in 2016, Minister, OSTH went bankrupt by a multi-annual 'partisan' of opacity and plaitiko, whose management by you seeks to mitigate possible losses, the account, which will be paid by those who participated in the 'partisan'. Because I want to tell you that the reports on the content of this report - I am tabling them in the Minutes - have been in existence since February 2020, where a debit balance arises for the shareholders, with whom your Government talks. It is part of its customer system, it has closed the eye, and through the undocumented Mr. Skodras, that the era of privatisation and the status of shareholders will come again where their profits will enter the losses of the publicly subsidised OSH. That's what happens. So you're telling me that we're well suspected of being held in the drawer of Karamanlis, because it's still not a mature political tool to negotiate. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Giannoulis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go to the next step. I will present a letter to you received by Mr Karamanlis in the summer of 2019. It is from the "polycanned" Stelios Papa, head of OSTH at the time, which describes exactly what the figures have led, apart from the survey I told you about Metro, to the survey of the Institute of Consumers for the last two years, which is a trick for the results of OSTH and the improvements that you constantly invoke. I would like to say that what is described here is what led your colleague, Mr Karaoglu, to ask for public apologies before Greek justice, Minister. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Giannoulis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I should like to return to the report by Mr Grunt THORNTON. We conclude that it is poorly locked in the drawer of one of the two OSH shareholders. I wonder when it will come to the hands of civil society, the directly concerned, the House and the parties, to finally see this'marble' and this 'account' will have the fate of the 120 million illegal subsidies, which you have given up on, on what grounds? On the grounds that yes, the subsidies received may be illegal, but if we continue the action the Greek people will pay twice. It has paid you - not you, personally - multiplely expensive Greek people and it is also proven by your response to the smuggling with the report 'GRANT THORNTON'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u141	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u142	Mr Colleagues, I think that when, especially from this Step, we are addressing the Greek people, it is important to have some measured expressions. What was heard - and I think you'll get it back - about possible infidelity or breach of duty...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u143	"Possible" ever.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u144	...I'm telling you as a lawman, but you can see that even that was what you say, no infidelity was a violation of duty. In any case, however, I will answer you - and the Ministry of Finance has it. I know the answer he has given and, indeed, he has received it for about a month and a half. I think by mistake he also gave this answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u145	A lot of omissions...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Comrade, listen to me. I didn't interrupt you. I should like to say that it has come late, yes, but also the Ministry of Finance, in fact, the other partner of government, now has the report on 'GRANT THORNTON'. But since I like to give specific answers, Mr Colleague, and I think we can be judged by the world, who listens to us, I will tell you specific facts and submit the documents to you so that you can have them. The valuation report was sent to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport - I will say it again - with a delay, although it was received in 2020, on 10/2/2021. It can be said that there were two objective reasons for this delay. Obviously, the most important thing is that during the period 1-1-2015-25-7-2017 there was no report for determining the Agency's revenue and expenditure and the preparation of this report was necessary in order to complete the total value assessment of the OSH. The second reason, of course, which is almost self-evident, is that any delays may have been due to the pandemic, so that all OSH services would have been decommissioned, because you know very well that the burden had fallen to provide the transport services to the co-operative and, above all, there could be one, if you like, a veil of protection to the OSH workers in these difficult circumstances in which they were working. With regard to your question as to whether the report was submitted in time - I will put it in the Minutes - I can tell you that it was, of course, submitted in due course at the end of February 2020, before the end of the contract, and in particular on 28-11-2019, a request was made by the contractor to grant an extension, which was accepted within the deadline by the board of directors of the agency, in particular on 29-11-2019. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] All these documents are proved in the package I just submitted. An extension of three months was given until the end of February, when it was delivered to the body. So if the part were made in the short term, I think it was answered by what I have tabled to you. Indeed, there have been some delays, I repeat, until he comes to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Finally, since we received it at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, there is now a process of 'valuation' which OSH could not do. It's something that's coming to an end. I can assure you that the next steps, which will indeed be required by Law 4482/2017, will also be carried out in the next few days in order to follow these procedures. So all the formal steps will be completed. You should know, my colleague, that I am the first person who really wants to fall for plenty of light throughout the management period and pre-administered Pope and then during the administration of Pope and then, if you want, so that we can actually draw conclusions, so that we can see what worked and what did not work. Let us at least decide, within this Chamber, that the main thing is not to have intercategories, but to have a transport project for the Thessalonians, which I think is appropriate in the city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u147	We are now continuing with the fourth question under number 6633-17-2021 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance, Mr. Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The only strategy of the Government of New Democracy for PPC and the energy sector is the constant burden on consumers". You have the floor, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Good week. Minister, we are continuing a debate which we have been having many times before. Today, we have an obligation to discuss both a written question, tabled on 17 May, a question relating to the accuracy of electricity, very critical to the Greek society and to Greek production. While the market is suffering from accuracy, while households find it difficult to pay electricity bills, I have not personally understood why you did not respond in writing. Because the written response to the parliamentary scrutiny you are required to carry out will enable us all to have, as a Greek Parliament, and a commitment from the Ministry to what it wants to do. Unfortunately, you are not giving us the power to have this. The reason for this question was the specific charge, the carbon dioxide clause, which since May - the days when the question was asked - was implemented and was not a short-term phenomenon. I have to say, Minister, that we have a clear stabilization of high energy prices in Greece, which is reflected in the electricity accounts of households and Greek businesses and, unfortunately, it seems that this will be intensified. It is indeed a two-year period, characterised by constant increases, which are all charged to the Mitsotakis Government. The Mitsotakis Government has chosen, since the first few months, to increase the bills, with too many episodes, in too many different forms, and it is an issue that you are solely accountable for. It is not linked to a memorandum, it is not linked to other difficulties. You chose the first day to put increases in the bills. The first was the increase that Hatzidakis put in September 2019 about 500 million to all of us, to the consumers of PPC, 20% to increase costs. Then, within the energy price, which increased, you enabled PPC's competitors to have more profit margins, because PPC, as a greater partner with the dominant position, determines the market, thus also forms a cartel in the energy market, Minister. Then to cover it, you reduced the EMFF, the Renewable Energy Charge, you went bankrupt. Not to polylogize, you have ploughed the RES, you have ploughed oil, you are probably creating a new RES account and you have not told us what is going to happen with the benefits of consumers from services of general interest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In 2020, however, within the pandemic, we have shameful speculation phenomena, PPC sells four times the wholesale and at some point, you went to tell us that this was because it has high production costs, but we found the numbers and saw that PPC's share in production is 46%, but in marketing it is 68%. So he's buying wholesale. The question, Minister, remains. Because he sells four times the retail price after buying in wholesale...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u150	But we're coming and...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u152	Yes, now, Mr. President. So we come now, and we have an extra burden on the carbon dioxide clause, which, apparently, will become a new permanent burden on all consumers' accounts...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Comrade, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u154	The question, therefore, is that, because the burdens have no end, we ask what the Ministry of the Environment and the Government will do to reduce the cost of energy and if you will continue to bear on consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u155	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. It is interesting, Mr President, that the good colleague, spokesman for the Civilian Representation, who asks questions himself answers the questions he asks at the edge of his speech. For example, he said that we were making increases in retail electricity prices to consumers, but ultimately, because the EMFF was reduced, ultimately the burden on consumers was zero and it is a reality. But let me put things in order, Mr President. Firstly, there is the fact that there is a great increase in wholesale electricity prices throughout Europe. The wholesale price of electricity increases for certain reasons, and certainly not the Greek Government or the Government of New Democracy or the opposition of SYRIZA or anyone. What's the matter with that? Firstly, we have an increase in fossil fuels. You know very well that both oil and gas have increased their world prices and since a large part of electricity generation is produced by the use of natural gas, this, of course, has increased the cost of electricity production upwards. The other important thing, however, is the increase in carbon dioxide prices. You know that Europe has made a very big decision to protect the planet from climate change phenomena, from dealing with the consequences that cause the climate crisis, as this is the case and as we feel in our daily lives from extraordinary weather phenomena, which unfortunately put all of Europe and the whole world. We have seen what has happened in our country over the past two or three years, with the Mediterranean cyclones and the huge catastrophes. We saw what happened in Germany a few weeks ago, unfortunately with dozens of dead people from a theory that hit the country. Likewise, she hasn't hurt her in the last 100 years or since they remember, anyway. So since Europe has made such a political decision, it has established a 'pollutant trading mechanism', as we say, namely carbon dioxide emissions, which are responsible, are being blamed for the challenge of global warming, which has the effect of climate change, namely global climate change. Unfortunately, every tonne of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere has come to cost, today, 50 to 60 euros, which means that for every electric megawattage produced by PPC, using lignite, it emits into the atmosphere from 1,2 to 1,4 tonnes of carbon dioxide, and this results in the cost of electricity of EUR 60, 70, 80. Depends on carbon dioxide values. It is 80 euros, if we put on the real cost of lignite generation, which is about 40 euros for the plant, so it has an electrical megawattage cost, which is close to 120 euros, and it seems that in the coming years, as many estimates state, it can reach 90 euros each tonne of carbon dioxide emitted into the atmosphere. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] This means, then, that when PPC sells 110 euros at retail prices today, and costs 120-130 euros, you understand that this at some point will also have an impact on retail prices. However, PPC has so far not implemented this. Until now, PPC has achieved with special products, but also with discounts, on which it has moved throughout the pandemic, to maintain at constant levels consumer prices, that is, electricity prices for consumers, households.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u157	Minister, you have your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u158	I shall conclude, Mr President. This, of course, must be said to have come with new products which it introduces through its commercial policy, and I will say that there is now a specific product provided by the company, which has been keeping the price of electricity stable for 12 months at present, without it being affected by fluctuations either in raw materials or in carbon dioxide prices. From there on, the rest of what the government will do now to protect, defend and support vulnerable consumers, vulnerable households in the possible price pressures that may evolve next time, I will tell you in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u159	Good, thank you. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u160	I think, Minister, that we need to make it quite clear. Let's get them in order. Firstly, you told us that because that price of energy is accurate we have this first. First question: why in 2020, which was very low the price of fat, did you not lower the tariffs? So will the consumer always pay? Willn't he ever benefit? In April 2020, EUR 28 the gross, average month, EUR 110 the retail. You're not answering. Secondly, you told us that the energy price for the whole of Europe is accurate. I would like to say, Mr President, that yesterday I am not mistaken about the first issue. I suspect you consider it reliable, don't you? So it says "Greek Champion at the Wholesale Price". Indeed, Minister, Greece says EUR 116, 99 interconnected Bulgaria, 96 euros Italy. So they are not in the rest of Europe so high, we are 20 euros more expensive. So where does it turn out that Greece must be a champion? You can't be a champion in cheap current. Does he have to be a champion in expensive current? Thirdly, I told you about the clauses, you did not answer. We have a May communication on a carbon dioxide clause and a statement, if I am not mistaken, Minister, that on 5 August the supply clause is being applied, that is, a wholesale price. There will therefore be an extra hat to consumers. Why do you say consumers don't pay? After you announced it on 5 August, then, in particular. Fourthly, you told us that you were right to manage the market. But then, in the bill that we are debating in committee today and tomorrow in plenary, why are you creating a mechanism for monitoring and monitoring the energy market? Isn't it a assumption that you don't have him? Why are you doing this? Because you just messed up. We're just telling you, much earlier, two years ago, do something to set up a market. Because the Greek industries come and tell you that you have price manipulation, so cartel, and PPC in it. Fifth question, why then, since things are marginal and PPC does not come out and have to keep the price high, do you write 1 billion profits and proud Mr. Stassis of the 1 billion profits? To win the stock exchange and give a $360,000 bonus a year for the president to himself because he increased the bills? That's a great feat. The point is what you did to help Greece. So we say to you: you have received PPC with reduced lending, with a medium-term energy price reduction within the memorandum of approximately 12% with EUROSTAT - on SYRIZA, the energy price has been reduced - and this government is coming up and costs, so that today the households - two thirds of them - are saying that they are unable to pay the electricity bill. The last question is very simple, Mr. Screka. The limit value clause will apply on 5 August. So I say to you numbers: the wholesale price in May was EUR 63, in June it was EUR 83. So these 20 euros will be transferred to consumers from early August? It's a very specific question. Why do you hesitate? Since we see PPC's communication that says that according to RAE's instructions, which were, even since February, not implemented by PPC, you will apply this new hat. So things are clear. You've failed. This failure creates disgracefulness and clarity for consumers. It's a central issue in our lives now, accuracy. Did you now carry raisins to both fuel and renewable energy sources and all that for what? To settle some blue children in PPC and give them gold bonuses? Is it possible for PPC President SYRIZA to receive six times the fee that he was taking over the SYRIZA government to charge the consumers and say that you have profits on the other hand to tell us that the price of energy in Greece is accurate? But it seems from the publications I'm filing that we're champions in Europe and it's the Mitsotakis Government's fault. Is that what you can answer? That's what we're interested in, Mr. Screka. The other things are 'other words to be loved', as you usually do, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u161	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u162	You have mania to take a picture of a moment and try to generalize it and make it a rule. Please look at the wholesale electricity prices in Greece and Italy throughout the month. Example: You said one day that mentioned a site post. Firstly, this is not the average of the month. But listen, Mr Colleague, on 5 July 106 euros in Greece, 112 euros in Italy, on 11 July 79 euros in Greece, 87 euros in Italy, on 12 July 95 euros in Greece, 103 euros in Italy, the average price, the wholesale price. I would therefore ask you not to try to falsify and mislead the listeners, but also the colleagues who are here in the House, because things are not comparable to the way you do. You have to go arrest and get the average price of a month, at year level, and you can make comparisons if you want to be right, otherwise I really don't understand what you want to say. From there you said something else that PPC has 1 billion profits. Obviously, either those who tell you or you don't know how to read a balance sheet. If PPC had 1 billion profits, we would really be very happy to have today's electricity prices and 1 billion profits for PPC. Unfortunately, PPC does not have 1 billion profits. PPC last year had about 40 or 50 million profits before tax if I remember correctly, can have a mixed operating margin that is close to 900 million and of course when PPC had 300 million operating margins of 800 million, 700 million losses and this was in 2018 for your day. And I ask the following question: if PPC were to close down, if PPC would stop the operation, where would the electricity cost be, which would of course already be eliminated from the country? But you come here and always try in a communication way just to win something and create impressions. From there on, we, our government, Mr. Colleague, are not just staying in this. We really are interested in consumers and, above all, in vulnerable people, which is why we are doing things that you have not done. For example, we are using 100 million to start - I have told you repeatedly - to understand it again - from the Recovery Fund to build about 120 MW installed photovoltaic power that will be able to supply almost zero value electricity from the sun 30 000 vulnerable households. And that's the beginning. You didn't do that. That's what our government, the government of Mr. Mitsotakis, did. We have given EUR 30 million so far for reconnections from vulnerable households that could not cope and the current was cut off. We come and give, therefore, just support the re-engineers of these households. And from there on, the Energy Regulatory Authority - read a little - called on all suppliers and actually discussed how they will be able to have commercial policies which are understandable to consumers. There will be no possibility of applying unfair commercial practices which mislead the consumer so that ultimately through competition the consumer can choose the invoice and the service he believes is in his own interests. We in this way try to achieve better prices, more competitive prices, lower prices for households, because there is no other way around the free Western world.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u163	Thank you. We continue with the second with number 6843/25-5-2021 question of the cycle of petitions - questions by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Installation of new Renewable Energy Sources (EPC) in Crete". Please, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, following the partial electrical interconnection of Crete, it was decided to allow 140 MW photovoltaics to be installed on the island. Of these 100 MW will involve new 400 kW facilities, as you have announced on ground and 40 MW will be energy offset. I would like, Minister, to confirm that this means two hundred and fifty quadruples for new units and a hundred for energy offsetting. The submission of applications has been announced to be from September. How long will it be? And of course, I would like to make it clear whether the supporting documents and any authorisations need to be submitted together or whether there will be an extra time limit for their submission. Why am I saying this? In order to avoid, Minister, what you yourself admitted was not right, to apply, as has been done, for 'Home-to- House Settlement' to be judged on the basis of speed rather than on genuinely environmental and social criteria. I would like you to tell us how you will ensure transparency and what kind of controls you will put in order to ensure that the interested parties are involved without delay. Minister, as I would like to point out in my question, there is a great deal of interest from small investors, but also from the few energy communities that exist in Crete and the wide social base that exists. With the regulations you essentially stumble on energy frequencies, as in the quadruple it is stated that every legal or natural person can apply for a single four hundred project and if a member of the two hundred sixty, for example, who has a four-cost energy community, is excluded from the energy community. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will take one minute of my speech. A large energy community, such as the one I mentioned, the 'MINOA ENERGY' will have a problem, because it will not be able to build. You know very well, but - and this is about a differentiation in relation to the rest of the country - that the energy communities had priority in mainland Greece with 18 MW already projects. We're not talking about 18 MW at a hundred forty, but there's a proportionality. For example, 5% of forty can priority be given to energy communities and, if there is no interest, to private individuals. Or alternatively ten private projects of four hundred can be taken by an energy community with two hundred sixty members in the region...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u166	...two municipalities and other legal persons. And, of course, see the subject of the letter of guarantee. It is not possible in the rest of the country that no guarantee letter is needed and the batters should be somewhere in Crete, the Peloponnese and Evia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u167	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u168	First of all, I think you agree, Mr Colleagues, on the possibility of installing low-power photovoltaics up to 400 KW by small renewable energy producers and thus to achieve energy democracy, but also to help the electricity system in Crete and the rest of the country with the largest penetration of the RES, which will, of course, replace polluting oil plants or diesel generators or even lignite plants in western Macedonia and Megalopolis. From there on, I hear what you say about energy communities. I have to tell you that we are going to proceed with a series of arrangements, because the energy communities so far, by a vast majority - not to say of all - have been exploited by people, by investors, who in any case have been able to invest in individual sources of energy, in individual photovoltaics, but have taken advantage of the possibility offered by the Energy Communities Act to make a higher return on the capital invested since it has greater turf than a single photovoltaic and also has some competitive advantages with regard to the licensing and the time series. What do I mean by that? Finally, the substance that the energy communities have to serve, which is what you said, to collect two hundred and fifty weaker people, to unite, to make an energy community and to access the possibility of building a photovoltaic all together, and in this way, to make a real contribution, and they also have a share in the national effort that we are making on the energy transition to a cleaner electricity production. This thing is going to happen in the next period, we are going to table a number of arrangements. So we will see what we will be able to do in the case of the islands or regions with limited capacity to welcome renewable energy sources. First of all, let us keep the fact that, from September onwards, there will be an electronic platform. Because we also lived at those moments that went from the last night and sat at the offices of the TEDO in front of the stakeholders in order to get a order of priority, because there is, in fact, a time hierarchy, a time-frame in terms of subscribing, approving these applications that are interested in building, the candidate investors. And at the moment I can't think of how we could set criteria to do with the possibility of investing. In other words, which investors could be supported through a potential of perhaps multi-critical - so to speak - priority and who are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u169	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, because you accepted that it was a mistake to prioritise as a result of speed but you say that it would be a criterion now, what you can do from the announcement today and from the law's vote there would be a sufficient margin so that all micro-enterprises would be in the same starting position. That's very important. But that is not the case in September. Look at it. The second is whether the speed is relevant to the application and then how long you will leave it open to submit the supporting documents. That's the second one. Now to the issues that concern the issue of energy communities. I referred to an energy community in Crete, 'MINOA ENERGYKI' - I shall say it by name - which has two hundred sixty members. Its members are the Region of Crete, municipalities, metropolitan, legal persons. It is an energy community, as you described it, broadly based to play a role in a pooling of small investors' powers which cannot, in themselves, just what you described. And I want you to clarify if that is what you meant, that it is referred to after the completion of the 140 MW process in whatever arrangements. Where you say that it is forbidden to be a legal person and a private person - it is right - it must be 'with the exception of the broad-based energy community'. If a member of the energy community makes four-cosaris investments, is the community excluded? Or see the theme of 18 MW. If you give the 18 MW or the 5% that I propose to you, you could also set such criteria. But he has to go into that law. It cannot enter into future laws and future notices concerning establishments other than this. In other words, we are now seeing this, we are not correcting it and we are saying 'after'. Or alternatively allow large-scale energy communities - I therefore distinguish them from others that I regard as virtual and that is an institutional issue that we need to address - to implement larger units. And I will present you with a document sent by the Energy Community "INOA" of Crete. But I'm coming back to the original. Ensure that annual fourscores do not have a unique criterion of speed or if they have it, then everyone has the same starting point. Instead of September, applications could be well placed in October, so that they could be prepared. It is also about the Peloponnese, Mr President, because in the Peloponnese, an important size is given for investments of the same type and the guarantees are, in the end, only for them. I would ask that we become the same fate as the mainland, not to fight for rights guaranteed by others, and we remain, Minister. Look at this theme is important.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u171	He's the Prime Minister today in Arcadia. We'd honor him. But unfortunately today, Mr Kegeroglu, as you know, we are here in Parliament, because we are institutional and...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Tasoulus got in the way!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Screkas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, first of all I would like to say a letter of guarantee. It is a very small percentage of the project budget and the amount of investment, which is less than 10%. One who wants to make a real investment of EUR 250,000 or EUR 300,000 will then give a guarantee of EUR 30 000. I think that once there is this concentration - which you yourself say there can be - the very great interest that will come to try and find energy space and invest, you can understand that a guarantee letter of at least 10% of the project's budget shows that there is an economic possibility for the candidate investor to find it. Once, as you said, 100 MW is about twenty-five or two-five fourscore, or four-score parks of 400 KW, two hundred fifty parks of 400 KW. From that point on, it means that some can do up to 400 kW of course. They can do 100 KW, they can do a 200-300 KW photovoltaic. They don't have to go directly to the ceiling. We say the maximum is 400 kW. There will be, I repeat, a special regulation for farmers in the next period which will enable them to have a more satisfactory turf, because they are smaller, up to 100 kW, and therefore they will have to meet an increased connection cost, as we say, that is, the cost of implementing the interconnection with the network. That is why we will also give them a little more trench so that they can build them. So it can be that many more farmers can also come back from the opportunity we give, from the date we are going to give - I hear what you say not to be September and end September or the beginning of October - to be ready for an electronic platform so that there is an absolute transparency and, ultimately, the time-frame and time-frame at least not to raise objections and, in any case, any concerns to those who are going to come forward. From that point on, you can understand that this will create a series of priorities where there will be those who will be subject to, join, fit into the space that we have given and those who are involved. So from that point on, we'll have a row. Because the non-interconnected network, the non-interconnected islands at some point will be fully connected, so there will be a lot more space. This series will therefore also exist for those who want and want to remain even as emblems for the moment and when the energy space will be opened and they too will be able to participate in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u175	We continue with a communication to this House. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘The integrated framework for waste management – Incorporation of Directives 2018/851 and 2018/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive 2008/98/EC on waste and Directive 94/62/EC on packaging and packaging waste, the framework of the Hellenic Recycling Agency, provisions on plastic products, urgent provisions on the protection of the natural environment, spatial planning and energy regulations’. And we are now continuing in the cycle of the Ministry of Finance again with Mr Kegeroglou with the sixth under number 943/12-7-2021 an up-to-date second-cycle question to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The depreciation of the Greek Defence Systems (ESA) continues." Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Change Movement is fully in line and I would say that it is expedient for the relocation of HSH facilities by the Hymittos and the creation of a green lung as long as it is done with an integrated plan that ensures the optimal development of the area, as well as the smooth continuation of the operation of NSAs. To be in consultation with the workers and ensure their rights. The issue of NSAs is very important to us because we believe in the necessity of the national defence industry and in supporting its reassurance. A project that will have all these relocation elements therefore finds us in agreement. However, we see that the government does not guarantee the NSAs by their exploitation, but many actions lead to their depreciation. We're downgrading. There is no study or preparation to relocate the company to Lavrio. The relocation has been announced until 2022, although it becomes impossible, because the current contracts that the Hymittos factory has to implement need at least until 2023 to work in order to fulfil its obligations. Apart from this, however, there are issues which are not taken into account in a rational manner and in accordance with the procedures laid down. The Ministry of National Defence intends to award a new contract of thirteen thousand ammunition type 76/62 OTO MELARA, and we wonder whether the price of expropriation - it is very critical and important - will be made available for the resolution and modernisation of the NSAs or whether this amount will be offset by public, tax, insurance contributions. Of course, you can tell us how various expenditures are justified by direct awards, under the pretext of urgency, although there has been sufficient time for them to be carried out under normal procedures. These are studies that have nothing to do with relocation, such as the design of procurement procedures. How can it be done by entrustment? We have recently learned that there will be a new unpaid counselor in the company that the government will place and we would like to know what his role is. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u177	Thank you. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, the government is firmly committed to strengthening and developing our defence industry. Let me remind you that the tender for the shipyards has recently been completed. There is now a strategic investor and the upgrading of the operation of the yards will be linked to the defensive work. From there on, as far as the content of your question to the Greek Defence Systems is concerned, I am obliged to say that our Government has received our company in a marginal state, with great debts to taxes and insurance funds, without sufficient cash, even for the remuneration of staff. Since September 2019, the company has been strengthened with a total of EUR 83,38 million, of which EUR 61,76 million represent a capitalisation of debts from the sale of guaranteed loans and EUR 21,62 million is a direct cash payment by the Greek State. On 9 April 2021, the general meeting of the company decided to grant a new capital aid of EUR 13,39 million. You realise that, if these brave capital aid were not available, the company would not exist at the moment. Therefore, the Government has practically demonstrated its will to support our defence industry, namely the Hellenic Defence Systems. The support policy also includes the development prospects of the company. With regard to your first question on recruitment, I must remind you that the company as a public undertaking falls under the system of limiting recruitment in the public sector, which also applies to the recruitment of temporary staff under fixed-term contracts. As is well known, however, for the implementation and timely implementation of contractual obligations undertaken at times by the Hellenic Defence Systems, the award and implementation of a specific sub-strategic project by companies with staff of their choice and in this context the company has opened a tender under Law 3978/2011 to conclude a framework service agreement. The tendering procedure has not yet been completed and is already in the second phase of submission of economic tenders. After completion, the file will be submitted to the Court of Auditors for the pre-contractual audit. In my dentistry, I will deal in detail with the programmes and contracts to be implemented by the company.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will be the last to oppose arguments on the situation in which you received the NSAs. The NSAs have received them, in fact, in the manual situation that could and this was the result of the management by the previous government and, unfortunately, the administration of NSAs, which, instead of using the agreement signed by Mrs Gennamas with the institutions for the resolution of NSAs, abandoned it and led the NSAs to a dead end. This is one of the fair works of the previous government. But forgive me, it's not an alibi for you. Two years now, you have been sailing in relation to the role of the defence industry. It's indicative that it's only seven questions for the NSAs, for the defence industry, which have not been answered, of the Ministry of Finance, all. It is indicative that the necessary arrangements have not been made for the NCAs corresponding to the NCA. So it is an issue that your government does not handle as it should. Two years you could have advanced the procedures through ASP and hired the necessary human resources. Why am I saying that? Because the withdrawal of the workers, the skilled people, if the experience and possession of the art is not transmitted, does not become the property of a next generation of workers, obviously, is lost know-how, is lost added value. A significant number could therefore have been promoted, because the suffocating cord that existed up to a period of time for recruitment has stopped. There could have been a transfer of know-how and added value. This is the time to do it, if you have a will as a government. At the same time, of course, we must make use of the institutional framework of '11 for additional recruitments to cover immediate needs. That is justifiable, but it cannot be 80% of the recruitments it needs, 100% through private companies, and we cannot obtain the potential we want through the procedures that are provided for the public and the ADP. I come to the question of new contracts. First of all, I would like to link you with what I said at the outset, that the implementation of the contracts now held by the NSAs takes a considerable amount of time and that is not enough time for the relocation to be carried out. They cannot be implemented, and with the machines in the field and in the fields. As you can see, there has to be a plan which has not been prepared, it has not been announced, the relocation plan, which means that, alongside the operation of the plant in Hypothet, some units should be installed in the new facilities to start production now. That's one of the things that doesn't happen. We're waiting to see it. I believe that new contracts can be added to restore the NSAs and the Ministry of National Defence, of course, which is intended, as has been announced many times, but also with the assistance of the Ministry of Finance, on the basis of the money available to it, from earlier contracts, which must, Mr President, go to old obligations and, more importantly, to the implementation of commitments to investment projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u181	Come on, Minister. We have another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, I believe that the strengthening and development of the Greek defence industry as an idea is a field of convergence of all the political forces. In your second question about what contracts have been concluded with internal or external bodies and in particular what is expected to be concluded with the Ministry of National Defence will give you detailed information. First, the Hellenic Defence Systems were selected in a competition by the Ministry of National Defence of Egypt for the production and supply of educational cartridges and the contract has already been signed and activated. Secondly, the management of the company has triggered the order from a North African country concerning small calibre ammunition and the process of amending the contract for the transfer of delivery time schedule has been completed, and the process of supplying the raw materials needed for their production has begun. This concerns international cooperation. The General Military Staff to meet its service needs has launched the procedures provided for in the existing legislation for the activation of procurement programs through the Greek Defence Systems. These are the following four programmes: First, the supply of a thousand light firearms of 5.6 mm FN, with an overall estimated cost of EUR 10.917.950. Secondly, the conversion of five hundred machine guns of 0.50 electric powered to fast-changing barrels, with an overall estimated cost of EUR 2.132,500. Third, upgrading rockets 122 millimetres, with total estimated cost of the 87,912,500 euros programme. And fourthly, supply of cartridges 7.62 by 51 millimetres, at an estimated total cost of EUR 14.463.876. You understand, therefore, that there is work and object and that is just the beginning. As I told you at the beginning of my position, the government's firm pursuit is the strengthening and development of the Greek Defence Industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u183	I should like to make a statement to the House. Please confirm the minutes of the plenary sessions of Thursday 22 April 2021, Friday 23 April 2021, Wednesday 12 May 2021, Thursday 13 May 2021, Friday 14 May 2021, Monday 17 May 2021, Wednesday 19 May 2021, Thursday 20 May 2021 and Friday 21 May 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u184	The Minutes of Thursday 22 April 2021, Friday 23 April 2021, Wednesday 12 May 2021, Thursday 13 May 2021, Friday 14 May 2021, Monday 17 May 2021, Wednesday 19 May 2021, Thursday 20 May 2021 and Friday 21 May 2021 were ratified. We are now continuing with the third under No 938/11-7-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Polilo Mount: hour zero to defend his public and forest character". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is the pluralist question I ask about this. I had done both 29-10-2019 and 17-12-2019 and 25-6-2021 and other related. On 1-11-2019 we had then discussed the issue and together you said that this important area - and we are talking about an entire mountain of Athens, a huge part of what is meant to be a stain - has not been declared in the Land register yet. This is due to the fact that the Regional Public Property Directorate at Attica could not state it because the final opinion from the Public Buildings and Exchanges Council has not yet come out. Let me remind you that this is an entire mountain and forest and public forest area, which has infinite protesters and trespassers - there are constant violations. We have documents, such as Decision 64/1990 of the Deputy Prosecutor of Effents, document 1862/2012 of the Ministry of Finance of the Ministry of Finance, document 1143858/1870/2012 of the Ministry of Finance, document 37674/2011 of the Department of Finance of the OTA to the Municipality of Petroupoli and document 10292/2009 of the Ministry of Forest Protection of the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Finance. What do all these documents say? That land is public and forest. So we would like you to tell us, two years after the previous time question, whether a final opinion has been issued by the Advisory Council for Public Buildings and Exchange of Property. If not, when will it be issued? And what will you finally do to defend this public property as the Ministry of Finance you have and the competence?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u186	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, while respecting the procedure of parliamentary scrutiny, I come to the House and reply to all my colleagues, even when the topical questions raise issues which mainly fall within the competence of another ministry. This is the case in this particular case, which is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment. This area has not been declared by the former Regional Department of Public Property at Attica in the National Register. That is why no final opinion has been delivered so far by the Public Buildings and Exchange Council. This is an area of seven thousand acres from which a small part of it, only four hundred thirty-three acres, was delivered to the Ministry of Finance by the relevant Forestry of Aigaleo, according to the Protocol on the delivery of forest land, which, according to the provisions of Law 998/1979, ceased to be considered as forests, because of its integration into the project of the city. This means that most of the area, more than half a thousand acres, falls under the responsibility and responsibility of the Aigaleo Forestry and the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. These two bodies are responsible for safeguarding the public and forestry character of the Pine Mountains and of the area Pekka Verde and I am sure they will. After all, as everyone knows, in relation to land uses and the institutional framework required for the area to be regarded as a protected area of Mount Aegleo and the rest of the area, these two issues are exclusively the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. We, as Ministry of Finance, requested the views of the relevant management of the Ministry of the Environment from which it appears that under the provisions of Law 4227/2014 for the New Regulatory Plan of Athens-Attica, the complex of natural elements, the mountainous volume of Aegaleo, Polikilos Mount, Lake Reites is described as a "regional park" and is formed in a single park of recreation, view and hiking with two large super-local recreation areas in the western and north-west gate of Athens. I shall refer to the aims of this move and the other issues you have raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Secretary, as you will know last week, the Minister for the Environment was here, answering that question. This question becomes very well documented, as far as your part of your responsibility is concerned, and I am addressing it here. It is your responsibility to do what is happening with the Public Buildings and Exchanges Council. It is not possible to do this at a time when all the trespassers and challengers have been declared in the register and on the basis of a document from your department, the Directorate-General for Public Property. I am referring to document 1143858/2012/12-10-212, where public property is documented, that this report is public. How is it possible that this Advisory Council still does not deliver an opinion and that it cannot conclude what the services have sent in writing. We have the document from the Ministry of Finance that substantiates it. How it is still possible for the Greek State not to claim the ownership of one of the mountains of Athens. It is unthinkable that two years after our first debate you will come to tell me that we are still waiting for the opinion of the Advisory Council. What happened for the two years? Did something happen? Have you acted somehow? I asked you a parliamentary question almost two years ago. Now, you're telling me the exact same answer. What's happened? Is the ownership of the public on the Poliquilo Mount a negligible issue? As far as the Natural Regional Park is concerned, I should simply like to inform you, because this is what we discussed with the Minister for the Environment last week, that there is a commitment to the implementation of what the Athens Regulatory Plan, which has been inactive for so many years, many years now. There is a commitment from the Minister that he will begin to relive this great vision. The most essential thing is to become a regional natural park. But will it be a Regional Physical Park from the Ministry of Finance? Hasn't he declared it in the register as a public land? We really expect you to tell us what the Public Building Advisory Council is stalling to increase the property from getting the final opinion and when this will be resolved? When the public will declare the Polikilos Mount as a public land in the Land register.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u190	Please, Minister, you have the floor and we are completing the procedure with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, as you said, you had tabled a similar question a long time ago with references to the judicial dispute and the involvement of the Church. This case dates back to very old, particularly since 2004. Then there was an opinion from the Advisory Board of Public Buildings and Exchangeable Property, which decided not to promote ownership rights of the Greek State and the tradition in the sacred Evangelism of the Theotokou Lamia of two hundred and sixty acres. In 2007, this opinion was revoked and demanded the revocation of the delivery protocol between the Divine Service of West Attica and the Holy Evangelization of the Theotokou Lamia for this section. Ten years later, in 2017, there was a decision by the Polymelite Court of Athens that recognized the right of ownership in the sacred Evangelism of Theotokou Lamia over an area of sixty acres within a plan of city of Petroupoli. In the face of this decision, the public appealed and led to today's outcome. As I told you in my prototype, the responsible directorate of the Ministry of the Environment considers that on the basis of the regulatory plan the complex of natural elements of the mountainous volume of Aegaleo, Poikilo Mount, Lake Reites is characterized as a regional park and can be a new park of recreation, viewing and hiking. It is a move with a strong environmental mark that upgrades the area and can proceed through synergies in order to address the environmental degradation of the area from the expansion of the urban fabric and the installation of uses that are incompatible with maintaining its natural ecosystem in a state of ecological equilibrium. At the same time, there can be measures and policies to protect the ecosystem of the region as a natural barrier between Triasios and the territorial unit of Athens - Piraeus as a filter of air pollutants and a climate regulator of Attica. The Ministry of Finance to the limited extent, which is involved, declares ready to cooperate with all stakeholders to move the regional park to the region concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that they are not discussed in consultation: First, the fifth under number 942/12-7-2021 topical question by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Hercule of the Change Movement, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Directly addressing the problems created by the programmes of the olive sector'. Secondly, the seventh under number 944/12-7-2021 topical question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Recording of damage caused by high temperatures in agricultural crops and direct support measures for producers". Thirdly, the first under number 933/7-2021 topical question by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Moussala, Minister for Health, on the subject: "Abortion of the decision to interrupt the newspapers of the "Asclipio" Voula hospital." And fourthly, the first question under number 6177/21-4-2021 of the circle of petitions - questions by SYRIZA MP - Evangelos Apostolos Evangelos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Dirk deterioration of the General Hospital - Health Center (GYKY Kymis). Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-19-S1-commons.u193	With the consent of the House at 18.29 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 20 July 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
