ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Good morning. The schedule went well until yesterday. If we do so at the same rate, together with those of the political leaders who come to speak, I think we will be within the limits that we said yesterday, that is at the latest 21.00 hours at night, we will be able to start the vote. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Security Reform for New Generation: Introduction of a capitalisation system for pre-contributions to subsidiary insurance, establishment, organisation and operation of an Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund and related provisions". We start where we had stopped yesterday, with Mrs Adamopoulou from Mera25. Come on, Mrs. Adamopoulou. Explosive appearance today, Mrs. Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your good words. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a very serious bill on the grounds of the absolute political fiasco which the government has reserved for both the country and the government itself with the earlier reshaping. Obviously, this reshape was organized and drunken on the logic of the failed state of staff, because it could not be imagined who could have as much know-how as the final state, a huge failure which the New Democracy MPs will repeat today - and you will repeat with mathematical accuracy - as you will vote on the tombstone prepared by the Ministry of Labour on insurance, a tomb that will affect both today and the next generations. You tell us that the existing insurance system is threatened by demographic ageing. First of all, it is not just the insurance system threatened by demographic ageing. It is the entire historical continuity of the country, despite the heavy statements you have made that you are going to support young people both in childbirth and in general in the creation of a family. It is ironic to hear this when we see the sums you give, which are really funny. You give 2,000 euros a single chapter. This amount does not cover the costs of pregnancy either. This is real mocking and undermining. Because by dismantling labour rights, by narrating more generally labour law, by liberalising collective redundancies, by strengthening employers' arbitrariness, but also by elasticising labour relations, what you do not do is to support Greek women and Greeks, in order to give birth to children, to raise children in a safe, stable and healthy environment. One cannot forget that the then Minister for Labour, Mr Brutsis, in this Chamber, was burglarizing his clothes because we were criticizing him in the bill which he had then put to the vote, which was finally passed and which is notorious. So what did he do in this Chamber then? He held a specific proportionate study on the viability of e-ECA, which includes subsidiary insurance, and said that he has generally solved the whole issue of insurance for the next seventy years with the sustainability and adequacy of benefits. Today the current Minister for Labour comes to bring Mr Brutsis to the attention of another study, which is really at risk. So which of the two Ministers is telling the truth? Both scenarios cannot be valid. The answer is that you're cross-referenced because you're the government of falseists. You also claim that this system you bring applies the Swedish model and suck the candy of applying best practices from the advanced countries. The question is, first of all, whether it was Sweden and, more generally, these advanced countries that moved from one, redistributive, capitalising or from the beginning, that implemented a system of capitalisation based on collective bargaining that ensured high wages, decent working conditions, systems of control and self-management of the insurance funds by the workers themselves? Another question: will these countries pay a transition cost which will exceed EUR 78 billion, as is now being done in Greece? Are these countries so high unemployment 17% and 35% for young people? Do they expect to maintain unemployment rates by 2030 and at least three-fold underemployment? Do they have the underprivileged wages that our country has and are the wages that you prepared as government? So who, Sweden of the south, do you talk to us about when we've become Rwanda of the north? What you want to do is gamble the money from the insurance funds into the gambling of the international financial markets, and with the Golden Boys hiding behind immunities and being irresponsible. Because the question is: How can you be scandalously protected by the managers of the insurance funds, saying that there is no risk of investment? We know very well that investment is difficult to prove serious negligence and deceit. And I ask you: If a member of the board of directors of an insurance fund approves the transfer of money to an insolvent stock exchange company and suddenly the insured's money is winged, this member of the board of directors is civil and will pay compensation for his actions or omissions? You're telling more raw and uncovered lies. Will you make us forget about the massive real bankruptcy of the insurance giants with their glass feet in 2008? We don't know that money markets are unstable that speculation patriarchs manipulate situations against the weak? So what insured person, then, will be able to claim compensation for the damages suffered by the insurance company of the bank? I close my position with an answer to a grievous argument we hear. We hear that the new system will extend the savings of the insured. With such low wages, with same reservations for employees and freelance professionals, with 30% of the reported income being forced to be consumed by electronic means under the threat of taxing, with hunger wages or at best of survival, what savings are we talking about? Savings require high wages and Greece has one of the lowest wages in Europe. The only difference is that, with the new system, savings will be in the hands of the funders who have already put their hands on the red loans of small and medium-sized enterprises, and now they will also put their contributions to savings. So I conclude by saying that what you're doing is developing gambling, ensuring gambling from a dangerous government that wants to gamble the money of Greeks and Greeks. You have declared an adventurous war in 98% of the Greek people and this will mean destruction. So be compelled by your government chairs before you could completely eliminate the homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u3	The reason for the New Democracy MP, Mrs Silina Skondra, is to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again the way in which the left is faced with the insurance reform for the new generation, introduced today by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and our Minister Kostis Hatzidakis, is a great proof of its ideological deadlock. We are again listening to voices of denial and demand that the bill be withdrawn without dareing, however, to enter any real dialogue. And this despite the common assumption that the Greek insurance system is too much, that it has passed through countless changes, experienced economic deadlocks and continues to be swayed by significant omissions of past years. Many decades of the insurance system’s reserves have been left unintentionally. We had overcompensation for insurance funds, more than three hundred with huge management costs, ten times more than the insurance system in other countries. Finally, let us not forget the extensive evasion, a sanctuary carcinoma. Substantial interventions to rationalise and improve the operation of the insurance system during periods when the retired worker relationship was still one to three never completed. When the economic crisis hit, we led to the haircut of the reserves with 60% losses in the funds' property. The severely affected economic activity resulted in a dramatic reduction in contributions due to the smaller number of employees. Over the past decade, interventions to manage the insurance system and cut costs have been needed to stop waste. Nevertheless, the Greek insurance system remains unsustainable today. The very worrying demographic data, the economic crisis and the migration of many young people have shaped the relationship of pensioners - workers at one and a half times. These are data that lead to a failure of the solidarity mechanism between generations. Ladies and gentlemen, today the bet is to ensure long-term insurance sustainability. The application of a subsidiary capitalisation fund creates a system in which employees will have a staff pack where their contributions will be directed, which will give them security and new investment opportunities. Investments will be carried out rationally and professionally to achieve goodwill and to pay higher pensions. The introduction of the capitalisation system is the first step of a necessary reform, otherwise the high financial cost of its operation, since pandemic conditions have exploded care costs to the heights, will lead to a complete collapse of the system. Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of the matter is one and it is simple. The redistributive insurance system has long reached its endurance limits. The solution therefore provides for the creation of a new public capitalisation system for supplementary pensions for new entrants and volunteers for workers and self-employed persons up to thirty-five years old. They will be employed and self-employed for the first time entering the labour market as from 1 January 2022 and shall be subsidiary insurers. It will be a four-digit system in the Swedish model. Firstly, the State guarantees that all pensions of the existing scheme are paid. Secondly, the insured of the new system will be protected against any extreme fluctuations in the markets. The State guarantees that the supplementary pension corresponds to the contributions paid by the insured person in the highly unlikely event that the cumulative returns on his individual account will be negative. Thirdly, the scheme provides for a minimum amount of supplementary pension in the event of an accident at work or of the insured person’s death before an individual pigeon is built. In other words, the State will supplement up to the minimum amount. Fourthly, tax reimbursement is foreseen even if the insured person has less than fifteen years of insurance and does not have a pension right, something very important that is not, of course, the case today. Finally, we are listening to the opposition's objections to high transition costs in the new system. The Ministry gave an answer. The cost does not exceed EUR 120 million per year. This costs are even reduced if so-called growth dividends are taken into account, i.e. investments resulting from savings and revenues. Greece is delaying the introduction of capitalisation data into the insurance system, a road that has already been followed by many developed countries where more than 50% of the workforce is covered in addition by a capitalisation plan to cope with the side effects of the ageing population. In countries such as Sweden, Finland, the Netherlands, Denmark, the percentage of workers covered by pension schemes is more than 80%. In Greece we are introducing a model with elements similar to Sweden, which have been in operation for twenty-five years. The studies and projections made show that the new system can lead to significantly higher supplementary pensions. Today the amount of the monthly supplementary pension for an average salary of EUR 1,400 and forty years of insurance is EUR 235. Under the new scheme, supplementary pensions can reach 479 euros. Similarly, the monthly supplementary pension for a worker with a minimum wage of EUR 650 and forty years of insurance today is EUR 153. The new system can rise to 257. There, then, where numbers give a clear picture of sustainability and benefits for insured, ideological strangles do not fit. This legislative initiative strengthens the sustainability of the wider insurance system and gives a definitive end to the anxiety of young people, who today most believe that they will never be retired. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1992 you raised the world again when my infamous co-rapporteur Cardisiotis Minister Dimitris Sioufas reformed the insurance system. However, the Sifa Act, Law No.2084/1992, was that it reformed social security and kept the insurance system up to now. And that's a common admission now. The Hatzidakis Act now guarantees supplementary pensions for the next decades. Note that at the time Constantine Mitsotakis ruled, and today Kyriakos Mitsotakis ruled. In other words, the new Republic which provides for a social protection policy for Greek women, Greeks and especially young people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u5	The floor will now be taken by SYRIZA MEP, a colleague, George Papaliou. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill the government, following the same motto as it is known, is deceiving by reverse the concepts. This starts with the title of the bill. Nearly all the bills, now laws passed by the New Democracy's government, are falsified titles, such as the teacher, who has the false title "Enlargement of School", the worker, in fact an anti-corruption law, which has the false title "To Protection of Labour". In this respect, the current subsidiary insurance bill also has a false title ‘Security reform for the new generation’. The Government is using misinformation, reversal and distortion of concepts, propaganda and social automation to the consequences of the imported capitalist system. But no propaganda can hide reality. The capitalisation system provided for in this draft law is inconsistent either with the Constitution, Article 22(5), or with the objective of public social security, as stated, described and developed in the case-law of the Council of State which has ruled: ‘either as a principal or as an subsidiary, compulsory social security has been excluded from the field of private initiative. This was done for reasons of public interest, and in particular in order to protect those who are obliged to insure or pay insurance contributions from the business risks associated with the exercise of the insurance function by private entities. In fact, what is being proposed today is a counter-reformation which imposes the logic of individualisation at the expense of collective social institutions, for the benefit of a few and strong private interests. This undermines the public social security system, eliminates its redistributive character, reduces social solidarity and destroys the principle of solidarity between generations. Not only will the future pensioners be affected, but the current ones too, since the introduced system becomes uncertain and precarious. The under thirty-fifths of young people are also affected whose contributions will become the subject of investment risks or rather stock exchange gambling. In the context of neoliberal policies, flexible forms of work, part-time work, unemployment and periods during which they exist, are strengthened. In this way, young people will increasingly meet the conditions for retirement. The public interest is affected by the fact that, with the introduction of the capitalisation system, the contributions of the young insured will no longer cover the current pensions, causing a huge gap in their financial cover. This gap is estimated at EUR 56 billion which may also be launched at the sum of EUR 80 billion. This exorbitant cost will be called upon to cover, as the ministers and the government majority, the state budget, i.e. the taxpayers, again the workers themselves. This causes a heavy burden on the public debt. This is a violent redistribution at the expense of the social majority and for the benefit of a few private interests. With the capitalisation system, the contributions of young workers, instead of financing the supplementary pensions of the current pensioners, will be saved in an individual pension fund - a reserve fund - thus referring to the thirteenth "no society, there are people and therefore everyone is alone for themselves". Integration into this system will be compulsory for young public and private employees and young self-employed, optional for those who have already been employed up to thirty-five years old. When the insured person is retired, he will receive a supplementary pension based on the amount of his contributions and on the return on his contribution portfolio, if there is, of course. Capitalisation systems operate in the context of investment risk and depend on changes and fluctuations in markets at global level. We have seen many examples, especially in recent years, of the collapse of such speculators and investors - you call them - initiatives. What happens if the investments, exposed to the risk of markets, do not thrive? Pensioners will be reimbursed the contributions they have paid with a negative return guarantee, i.e. the contributions will be reimbursed to them, which means that a reduced pension will be paid to them. For the purpose of administering the new system, a new euphemistic public fund is set up, the Investment Insurance Fund (TEKA), which will also be responsible for managing the contributions of the insured will operate under the terms of the private insurance market as the only large-scale fund outside the ECA and will cooperate with fund managers, i.e. brokers, in order to invest the accumulated capital of the employees' contributions in bonds, shares and other investment products. The EEKA, this new fund, will not have a tripartite composition, but its board will be designated by the Minister of Labour. No participation by employers, workers, insured persons or pensioners is foreseen. In other words, the insured will pay contributions to the EEKA, but they will have no say in their administration. The draft law could not be missing, like many others, provisions for the provision of immunity to members of the board of directors of the board of directors at the Golden Boys, as well as provisions for the conclusion of contracts by way of derogation from any general or special provision. This practically means that a white cheque is issued to the EEKA for tens of thousands of euros in days, without complying with procurement legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion with the bill introduced today in plenary for debate and vote, there is another step towards the violent change in the country's model of production, embedded by the social state. Basic principles of public social security are repealed, the principle of universality, the principle of publicity, compulsory insurance, the principle of redistribution, the principle of protection of capital and the principles of social and transgenic solidarity. We strongly oppose this bill, we call for it to be withdrawn. We are voting against it because it condemns pensioners and the insured and ultimately mortgages the future of the new generation and the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u7	The colleague from the Change Movement, Mr. Michael Katrinis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I do not know whether the Mitsotakis governments' association with the changes or'reforms' in the social security system is in the government's assets, and now and now. It would be advisable if the New Democracy colleagues were to be a little more careful when addressing the reasons and designations so blurredly. But today we are discussing a draft law by the government which once again has a title that is misleading and has nothing to do with reality. It is called the 'Security reform for the new generation', showing, of course, the government of great interest in this generation, because two years now it has not dealt with it at all. They are the same young people who are left helpless and face the highest and highest unemployment in the European Union. They are the same young people who even excellent are excluded from their admission to universities who are forced to drive either in colleges or abroad. And the government is coming today to present a programme of supplementary insurance that undermines the public system by creating two speeds of insurance. In short, it maintains the current redistributive system for pensioners and workers over thirty-five years of age and introduces a compulsory, purely capitalising system for new entrants and voluntary for young people up to thirty-five years old. Their contributions will be invested abroad on the pretext of supposedly achieving higher returns. And it makes sense for the New Democracy to celebrate, because at last it is doing what it has long wanted: the withdrawal of the State from social security by transferring costs exclusively to every individual worker. So in the Caucasus, the social state and solidarity of generations, since the government introduces new morals, promising young people that they will no longer pay their parents’ pensions. That's the slogan, that's the message, that's the problem, and the New Democracy government found it. Of course, it cannot be ignored that our country combines hypogenicity, high life expectancy and low employment and the proportion of active people insured for pensioners from 2,67 to 1 who are today, will deteriorate to 1,6 to 1 in 2045, according to forecasts. However, instead of looking for and finding brave measures and adopting them to address demographic problems, such as essential incentives for family creation, tax exemptions, transition to full-time employment with decent wages and elimination or reduction of flexible labour relations, it opts for an easy and equitable solution. Nor, however, can the argument that supplementary pensions will be increased in the new system because, apart from the credit risks of the market, they will have to be retired to the 74th year of their age to receive the same level as today's supplementary pension. Furthermore, in an unavoidable deadlock, the current single subsidiary fund will be led, as there will no longer be the continuous flow of new entrants, which is a prerequisite for being able to operate as self-regulated, so that it will ultimately remain without insured and resources, except for pensioners and operating expenses. Thus, all the contributions to be paid will be continuously reduced and pensions gradually degenerated. You're going to tell me: is there no way this can be avoided? There is, but there should be funds of at least EUR 74 billion by the Government in order to cover the transition costs for the period 2022-2070 in line with the relevant proportionate studies. And this is where the major question arises: Who is responsible for the extra debt of EUR 74 billion? The government's announcements of State guarantee and State coverage of this cost cannot be taken seriously into account, firstly because of the astronomical amount of money and, of course, because all the predictions of high growth have been confirmed for decades, but you understand today that we are talking about are wishful words alone. On the contrary, too much is going to be won by private insurance companies, banks, fund management companies that are extremely risky of billions of euros of insurance contributions, but of course also several members of the government party, which will be called upon to run the new body. It is also easy to argue that similar arrangements apply to many other foreign countries. The truth is that the experiment of the selection of a capitalisation system implemented in thirty countries from 1981 to 2014 eventually led to eighteen of them and almost all of the European countries giving up and returning to the public distribution of solidarity between generations, together, of course, with the professional funds. The reasons for failure were the high management and transition costs, the significant reduction in pensions and the inability to predict a level of pension due to the uncertainty of the stock markets. In ignoring all the above, as well as ignoring and leaving to their fate the professional funds, an institution operating since 2002 and supported by the PASOK over time, the Government proceeds to the current draft law. And since we have talked about professional funds, we have to say that today twenty-one occupational insurance funds are active, covering over a hundred and fifty thousand people insured, which are complementary and supportive of social security. Some of these have achieved very valuable middle-weighted annual yields, 5%, even up to 8%, in practice proving that citizens can successfully manage their insurance contributions. This model, with appropriate adaptations and improvements, could be helped and really supported in order to be further enlarged to other professional groups and to become a strong pillar of social security. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the Change Movement do not agree with the risky choice of the New Democracy Government to promote this change. We do not agree, because confidence in the insurance system is not restored, trust that has been largely eaten for several years. Because the system will continue to be vulnerable, because it burdens pension insurance solely on the backs of the young people insured, without meeting the legitimate expectations of the old, and because it is tempting for the ultimate future to solve serious demographic problems. Obviously, because it does not offer the slightest benefit to young people, whom it is usually only communication. And why we in the Change Movement believe in the value of the social state, whose enormous need I think seemed to have been certified and settled during the pandemic period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u9	Unfortunately, a news brought to me by my dear colleague, Mrs Auger, has been confirmed. A short time ago Mickey Theodorakis began his journey to the neighborhood of angels to meet other great ones there, with his first and best friend Mano Hadjidakis. The House will honour the memory of Mikis Theodorakis as well as the way it should be. However, today we will keep a minute's silence on the great loss. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with our colleague from the New Democracy, MP of Thessaloniki, Mr Dimitrios Kouvela.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, the news of the death of Mickey Theodorakis, the greatest perhaps Greek composer of all time, fills us with grief. Forever his memory! Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the core of the bill we are discussing, I give my answer to the fundamental question that concerns all of us: What kind of insurance system do we want? The answer may be in only one word: fair. We want a fair insurance system, especially for the younger generations of our country, which in turn constantly address another question: will we be receiving a pension? These two questions are in response to today's legislative initiative. On the one hand we establish a fair system of insurance for younger generations, on the other hand, we assure our young people that they will receive the pensions they deserve when that time comes. Watching the positions of most of the anti-population colleagues so far I can say that you are consistent in the same outdated pattern: The same party grievance, the same micro-political misery of 'not all'. You're talking about gambling with the money of the insured. A little shame. Especially do you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, speak of gambling, forgetting that in 2015 you gambled with our lives as the rebels of Europe? You are talking about the costs of the new insurance system, which is estimated at EUR 150 per year for the next 50 years, but you are not telling us how much the insurance system currently costs in the country, which, of course, is EUR 15 billion a year. You are talking irresponsibly about increasing insurance contributions. But, in the next year, the subsidiary's insurance contributions will be 6% of today's 6.5%, so there is a reduction in contributions with the new system rather than an increase. The new insurance system we are legislating today should have come a long time ago. It is again the Government of the New Democracy, which is doing the self-evident thing, while fully respecting its election programme, for which the citizens have given Mr Mitsotakis a clear mandate to change the country. So what are we doing today? I think the title of the bill says it all: 'Security reform for the new generation'. An insurance system that will be the new and integrated framework that effectively regulates the subsidiary insurance system in our country. The aim is clear: Upgrading and strengthening supplementary pensions for the benefit of young people entering the labour market. That is why the new insurance focuses exclusively and necessarily on those who have been working since 1 January 2022, but also on optional terms for those who are currently thirty-five years old and choose it. We have for the first time, therefore, an insurance bill focusing exclusively on the new generation, focusing on young people who dream into a difficult highly demanding labour market and building their future. They therefore want to be able to see clearly even further, until the end of their working lives. A decent pension for our young people with the existing insurance system was a fraudulent dream. The new system offers a solution to the greatest problem that it is employing. In other words, a young man working hard, paying for his contributions, but seeing them as an expense that, although he is charged with it, his benefits are fruitful for today's pensioners. I don't think anyone argues that's the way things are. Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen. That is precisely the problem, the fact that we have an unjust and uncertain insurance system - this has emerged from the positions of all of us - which is inextricably linked to the great national wound, demographics. A system which has indeed been more efficient in recent decades, but with the ratio of workers towards pensioners to be much better. We had four employees toward a retired person. We must therefore follow modern reality and adapt to it, without blinding to developments. Demographic ageing in our homeland "shows its teeth", so that it becomes imperative to change rhetoric and to see and structure the future of the new generations in the light of these same, well-being, innovations that we introduce with the new insurance system. It has been heard that it follows the international successful models and standards that have been applied for decades in several European countries. According to the proportionate study carried out, it will eventually lead to significantly higher supplementary pensions for young insured persons, and most importantly it is that old insured persons and current pensioners are not affected. We are creating the individual account, the individual money, so that every worker, a new insured person, can be fully fruited with the benefit of his own contributions. Instead, its contributions to be used to pay the supplementary pension for the current pensioners will be saved and invested, creating a reserve from which their own pensions will be paid in the future. The new fund, the EEKA, will offer a guarantee of high qualifications and training for its staff, and thus a high rate of performance. I hope that you do not have a problem with that, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA. The unfounded criticism of unconstitutionalism, of the privatisation of subsidiary insurance, I think it has collapsed. The Court of Auditors' report, which if you read it, clearly answers the question, almost unanimously, that the bill is constitutional. The great innovation of this reform is the ability of the insured person himself to choose between the conservative, the balanced and aggressive profile, which will also have the similar yields at the end when the time comes. A higher supplementary pension of between 40% and 70% is foreseen. So we continue in terms of the 21st century and not like some colleagues in the opposition, you describe subsidiary insurance, in terms of the previous, 20th century, even addressing this rhetoric to young people. We, on the contrary, are in coordination with the present, with the strong social needs and, above all, with the future. I close, paraphrasing words of philosophers of Enlightenment. If you want to build a viable insurance system, open the room door when your kids sleep. Look at them, think about their future, and then take a pen and start writing. So only you will achieve solidarity between generations. We want young people in an upgraded labour market of strong rights and obligations today, but it will ensure their enhanced pension tomorrow. I invite you to vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u11	Until the Step in which the Secretary of Mera25 will be called, Mr Varoufakis, is called upon to speak, and because I have a request from two parliamentary representatives, for just a minute - so that we do not leave, because it will take place at the time when the honour to Mickey Theodorakis is due - each Parliamentary representative if he wants to say two words. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, at this time Greece has been reverently swaying the knee and has gone through one of its most worthy children on the road to immortality, on the avenue of immortality now, Mickey Theodorakis, the leading composer, who embraced modern Greek poetry and memorized her by making her known on the ends of the world. This was also the element that made Mickey Theodorakis one of the tops of ecumenical Hellenism. Mickeys Theodorakis did not belong to parties, no matter what he served. It has always belonged to the country, to the universal Hellenism, and in any case Mickey Theodorakis does not die because his work has been eternal. Have a nice trip.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today farewell to a true boulder of creation, a man with an unstable offer to the place, to culture, unpredictable, creative, who has always surprised us, and who has had open horizons, looking. It's a part of the lively history of the place in the last decades. I think that we and the next generations will rightly remember him. He was a man who has been honoured in life - and well - and, of course, should enter the highest points, the most brilliant points in our country's history. His memory is eternity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u15	Thank you. From the Change Movement, Mr. Scandalidis is not here and Mr. Mulkiotis will be speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Scandalides will be here sometime.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u17	All right, let's move on. Mr Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u18	And we say goodbye to the great music composer, who may have left but remains fully alive and topical his rich work, inspired by the struggles and evils of our people. That is why it will be in the heart of many generations, of today's and tomorrow's. Have a nice trip.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u19	From the Greek Solution, Mrs Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Unique form of man and musician, recognized throughout the world, Mickey Theodorakis will never be missed in our thoughts. We'll remember him and wish him a good paradise.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Claus Gregoriadis from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are also farewell to the rest of the Greek people now, Mickey Theodorakis, the great Mickey, who, apart from undeniably one of the top ten of the 20th century, has also been a permanent anti-Russian man for what he thought worth fighting. He was a man who finally ended up being identical to Greekness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u23	Mr Tsakloglu, on behalf of the Government, has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u24	I would also like to say that a truly great Greek has left us today. The art of Miki brought Greece to the end of the world. A few people have done this. Mickeys with his attitude honoured politics, honoured the Greek Parliament, honoured the government's seat. In fact, he's been remembranced for eternity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u26	Racism has been poorer today, but Russians Theodorakis has endured it with a great fortune that has made it richer in the peninsula. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel a little strange today because I have Pano Tsakloglu in front of me. We're colleagues with Pano. We have also reached the point of having such an un academic controversy. Dear Pano, you will allow me - and I hope the resident will be justified - to separate what I say in two places. The first thing I'll try to do is keep it in an academic context. There are seven points of criticism, if you want, more technical - inaccurate by me - which are called supportive of your bill. The second part will be purely political. Don't take it personally. The seven inaccuracies - I use this word instead of talking about lying, rather than talking about crime against logic, because I want to keep it in an academic context the first part of the debate - are the main pillars of supporting this bill. We start with the first inaccuracy. What I did is get your own speeches, interviews at "NAYTEMIC" and elsewhere, because I want to be loyal to your own words, and then I am happy to hear your answer. At some point you say - and it is his own words - that for each insured person an individual account, a money account, is created in which the contributions paid are placed and invested. Instead, workers' contributions to finance the pensions of today's pensioners are saved in order to finance their own pensions. I think there is a saving of truth here. He's not an atomic pigeon. You put your money in the money, and after a few years, a few months, you open it and you find it. And here, as in the previous system, it's the buttons that's being transported. You know that. It's a collective pigeon, just as it is with a private insurance company. The private insurance company uses the insurance contributions of those contributing that month to pay the premiums for someone who was accidental, for example. The only thing that changes is not the collectiveity of the money, but the abolition of solidarity between workers and the decoupling of the final wage from the pension. This is the first inaccurate. Second inaccuracy: You are talking about guaranteeing no loss, in particular - your own words, Pano - 'guarantee of the government of non-negative returns', which means that the insured will receive a minimum supplementary pension calculated on the basis of the value of the contributions paid in real terms. There are two clarifications here, which, of course, are more than precise questions. The first question is: Are the amounts paid by employers to be taken into account? There's no in the bill, or, at least, I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u27	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u28	Obviously, but you haven't said it in. There's no inside. And you may have meant it Pano, the next ruling ministers don't know how they'll see it. We now go to the second: what do you mean'real terms'? One interpretation is that this money, the minimum pension paid by the insured person, will be the money paid by the traffickers. The other is to take account of official inflation. Either one, however, or the other, this guarantee of minimum supplementary pensions will be much less than the time-limit for contributions, because we know very well that interest rates are virtually zero and will remain very fixed or, at least, it seems so. If you now use official inflation, Panos Tsakloglu knows better, perhaps, than any other economist in Greece that there is class inflation - the inflation of the poorest is greater than the inflation of the rich - from 1998 until today. The calculation of the actual contributions of the poor will be based on inflation that does not respond to real labour-class inflation. Therefore, not only do you put an end to solidarity in order to ensure a percentage of the final wage, but you do not offer any guarantee - despite what you have said - for non-permanent losses of capital that workers have contributed and as you, Mr Minister, are the employers. Let's go to the third inaccuracy. Individual responsibility, transparency. I read again the Minister's statements. ‘The rules of transparency shall extend from the manner in which the members of the Management Board and the Steering Board are selected’. What are the selection rules? Reading the bill says the Minister will be chosen from a list drawn up by the minister appointed. I keep reading. ‘... until the possibility...’ - this is the result of transparency, according to Panos - ‘... to all insured persons can at any time monitor and control accumulated contributions and returns on their investments on their computer or mobile phone through their respective application’. Yes, it is true that you will even have an app the possibility of seeing today what amount you are predicting when you get the pension. That is not transparency, though. Where have they put their money? You'll be able to know where your money is placed, who's in the position, who's gaining from the danger of your money being exposed to, as you said? You are still talking about supporting and guiding the insured for selecting the right, most appropriate investment profile to them as if the bio-opportunists were investors. They are not investors, they are the bio-opportunists. They are biopatients, to which you are demanding that they give their contributions to dark guys to gamble them. Fourth inaccuracy: I read Article 47(3): ‘The assets are primarily invested in regulated markets and the portion invested in non-traded items on regulated markets remains in any case prudent’. In other words, they will not only buy shares in even somehow regulated Athens Stock Exchange, but will be able to buy, for example, toxic derivatives. This means ‘non-regulated markets’. Papers under the table above the table. Private Equity will be able to buy? Will they be able to contribute to this process of despoiling business? The bill says yes, it says "on prudent levels". And who defines prudent levels? LEHMAN BROTHERS clearly in her statute, in her monthly reports, also spoke of purchases of CDOs, toxic derivatives, at prudent levels. Fifth, you're talking about risk differentiation. In a question asked to you, 'if the supplementary pension scheme is so good, why don't you extend it to the main pensions?' Your answer, Pano - which I shall read - was as follows: 'The national pension is subject to the financial risk, the demographic return and the new subsidiary to the risk of the markets. By introducing capitalising elements into subsidiary insurance, we achieve diversification of risk, as..." - and I stress - "Each part of the system is exposed to different risks which are not highly related to each other". What the Minister says is that, for example, an insurance company, through the proportionate studies it makes on the basis of previous statistics, says: Katerina comes and secures her leg that if she breaks it, we will give her some money and Costas comes in that he will break his own leg. What statistical correlation, possible correlation between breaking Katerina's leg and Costas' leg? Well, there's no way Katerina stays in Xanthi and Costas lives in Piraeus. Yes, but if the statistical connection is in the same car, it's very important. Dear Pano, are you serious? Are they not highly related to each other the possibility of sinking the state, the possibility of leaving new children abroad - Brain drain - and the possibility of sinking the Stock Exchange? In the 2010-2021 period where we were? Didn't we live in this country where all three of them were hovering together, the equivalent of Katerina and Costas being in the same car that falls on the wall, on the ravine? We are talking about the second case where you are using the same criminal inaccuracies as LEHMAN BROTHERS. Because LEHMAN BROTHERS said so, that there is no risk to the CDOs market, because the statistical relationship between the possibility of alpha, beta and gamma going bankrupt is almost zero. So that cannot be the reason why this system does not extend to the main pension. It can't be him. The reason is political. Start with the supplementary pension, the main pension will be increased, the principal will be EUR 20 a month and the whole package will be on the stock exchanges. Your subsidiary today is the thin side of the wedge. You put it there and you start to nail up to the system that you enter today, to become the predominant in terms of pensions. I'm going to the sixth inaccuracy. To a question that was asked to you Pan on the well-known issue of budgetary costs, you replied: "Gross costs are backward, very small at the beginning and are gradually increasing. However, the net cost, although much smaller in absolute sizes, is forward because, as the reform matures and accumulates significant funds in the new fund, the cost is eventually zeroed and reversed.’ That's a start. What we know for sure is the sure - as you well called it - you are retarding losses for the public fund. That's for sure. We know. With regard to reducing these public costs - the reduction of net costs - this is based on absolute uncertain benefits. These are the benefits that will come from the Stock Exchange. It is the definition of ‘unknown X’ that no model can calculate. There is no model - and Mr Tsakloglu knows well - which can calculate what stock exchange courses will be in the coming years. It is the definition of what Dick Chaney of the "know unknows", that is, the radical ignorance of things that we not only know, but we cannot know. I hear some colleagues from the Qualified Opposition talking about proportionate studies that should have been carried out, which were not there, I hear the Government speak of proportionate studies. Ladies and gentlemen, a proportionate study cannot be carried out on the Stock Exchange. Analog study of the likelihood of Katerina breaking her leg - beating wood - there can be. Analogue study compiling stock exchange courses for the next thirty years is simply impossible. If I am wrong, then why are you bragging about guaranteeing that contributions are not lost, which actually only has substance if the stock exchanges go to zero and below zero? I now come to the seventh inaccuracy. It's not inaccurate, it's a great lie. The Minister's words again: "A major part of the resources of the new fund is to be invested in the Greek economy". First of all, we are not talking about the Greek economy, we are talking about the Greek stock market. Isn't that right? Or are we talking about foreign exchanges? It's something you haven't made it clear. If you are talking about investment only in Greek papers, only in Greek stock exchanges, in Greek companies and shares, you are condemning the new fund to high and low-performance risks. If you are talking about buying foreign papers, then you can undo yourself, as it will not be investment in the Greek economy. Decide. Only in the Greek stock market with greater risk and lower returns, or in foreigners? You didn't tell us that. You say another thing: the higher investment - it says - entails an increase in productivity of GDP, wages, employment and ultimately tax revenue and insurance contributions. I can't believe you said that. What world do we live in? The period 2008 to 2021 worldwide, not only here, especially the pandemic period, has taught us one thing: We live at the time of the complete decoupling of the real economy from the financial markets. There is no such connection anymore. We see the stock exchanges slipping into the air. On 12 August 2020, we had the most interesting phenomenon in the history of capitalism in the last two hundred years. On August 12, 2020, at 9:05' in London, it is announced that British GDP fell by 21 points, the largest fall of British GDP in the history of capitalism and 15 minutes of the hour later the stock market went up. Why? Because the production of money from the central banks has led to this complete decoupling. Do you think it's supportive of your bill what? That the growth in stock exchanges entails an improvement in GDP and employment. No way. Now I come to the political party after these seven inaccuracies. I'm not addressing Pano Tsakloglu. I address the New Democracy and the Government. I call on the Members of all the parties, and also on the citizens, to keep two important things in mind in our lives, in the lives of our children and our families. Firstly, the insurance funds not only cease to be mechanisms for redistribution and solidarity, but they are transformed by state donors - don't forget that the insurance funds were obliged to buy bonds of the Greek State - to lenders of both the stock exchange and darker parasites moving in places other than even substantially regulated stock exchanges. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are preparing the new stock exchange scandal. Do you remember the crime of Yannos Papantoniou when he was Minister of Finance? When, at an outrageous rate, the stock exchange was upwards, a normal bubble based on debt and self-evident oversimplification, the Minister of Finance stands up and says "perfectly, the dramatic increase in the stock exchange reflects" - if I remember the words of Yiannis Papantoniou at the time - "the soundness of the Greek economy". So we got to the point where farmers and taxis were selling their fields and their cabs to play on the stock market. You guys are even worse. Make gambling compulsory. To the cab driver who doesn't want to do that, you force him to go to the Stock Exchange. You match the course of the Exchange and the financial markets with the course of the real economy, in an economy that is in debt-sharing. The crime of Yannos Papantoniou then in 1999-2000 is a pit in front of what you are doing. What you are doing - colleagues have said so from both the JRC and SYRIZA - it is a classic thatstoric movement, the personalisation of popular masses, the transfer of risk from capital to workers. Once in us, especially when we read a political economy, Adam Smith, Marx - it doesn't matter - capitalism appeared as a system where the employee's reward was his salary and if you asked someone "good, the other who has shares and doesn't do anything, he doesn't even know where the company, the factory where he has shares, how it is explained that this man gets money, dividends, every month, every semester", the answer of capitalism's champions was that he is his reward for the risk. What is done by Thatcher and Reagan to date is the transfer of the risk from the capitalist to the working class. It's an old recipe. You just bring her here at this stage. Since then it has been clear that Margaret Thatcher's goal has been that the poor should not fall down on the richer's shares, so that he too eats some crunchy from the predator's table, that the worker should be afraid to come down to strike, even though the stock market falls and his own mother who approaches the pension loses pension. But today, this thirteen project is of other importance in a country that is deeply bankrupt, with a bankrupt state, with families who are bankrupt, with the bankrupt and the "HRAKLE" being prepared to take homes and micromassage from six hundred thousand families. This is because today the financial risk is transferred to the proletariat, the precariat, the small and medium-sized ones, at a time when interest rates are zero, the Exchange depends only on the central banks producing money with the soulla and through the private banks pass on to the stock exchanges, perhaps even through companies that take the loans from commercial banks and then buy their shares, SIEMENS buys shares of SIEMENS, VOLKSWAGEN's VOLKSWAGEN's stock exchanges and you have this disconnection of investment stock exchanges. For the Greek reality, for a bankrupt state this means that pensions will go higher as long as the Greek State's dependence on the European Central Bank is increased to transfer the bankruptcy of the Greek State. It is on the one hand a ruthless blackmail by small and medium-sized enterprises to want to deepen the dependence of our state on the troika, on the European Central Bank, on the other hand, and they also take a few crunchy extra subsidiary, and at the same time it is a ruthless blackmail by the Greek state, and even the Finance Minister, whoever or whoever it is, will fight not only that the troika will threaten him with the closure of the banks, but will threaten him that, with a simple statement, he will throw down the stock exchange and reduce the pensions of the cosmaki. You understand, SYRIZA's friends, what did you do in July of '15, what did they get here with your help? By doing 'no' 'yes', you put the water on the groove to end up in such bills. This was the night of the referendum. It's time you two of SYRIZA choose. Congregate with them or stop saying that co-operation with them to do "no" "yes" was an act of responsibility and that what we said about conflict with the establishment, with the oligarchy, was deceptive. They weren't delusional. These are delusional, but they are very profitable delusions for a particular class of very few. I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. Bearing in mind the times, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the full decoupling of the financial markets from the real economy is now being set up here, starting with this bill, a new trading scandal by law imposing gambling. They turn the insurance funds into predators and make it difficult for one not in the international and domestic oligarchy, a strike, promising to employees and small and medium-sized crustaceans from the table of oligarchs when at sixty-five or seventy-seven they get a pension. We, as a PART25, ladies and gentlemen, will bring a law to disconnect pensions from the gambling of financial markets. We will link pension funds to the new development bank we are proposing, whose shares will be the capital of the public pension funds, while the liquidity of the funds will be made available to the new development bank. From the deadly intrusion of pension funds and stock exchange gambling, brought by this bill, we will go through supporting pension funds and the new development bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Varoufakis. He will take the floor now, because he has not even made his speech as a Parliamentary spokesman from the Change Movement, Mr. Scandalidis, and he will say two words about the loss of Mickey Theodorakis. In this way, we will conclude the protagonists of the parliamentary representatives. Before Mr Scandalidis begins his speech, I would like to inform the House that a request for a roll-call vote was tabled by SYRIZA in principle, Articles 1 to 73, Article 81 and the whole draft law, which will take place immediately after the debate on the draft law has been concluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Scandalidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u31	"I delight my veins and reddle dreams and circus are made in the neighborhoods of children and sheets to girls who wake up the nights who cry the wonders." A very big man, who didn't mark a time, but a whole century. A democrat, a man with very progressive ideas, but above all a great patriot, a Greek. A man who combined his racing activity, who was almost militant in an area that honoured him, along with his great artistic value, world recognition. A man whose absence we keep saying he will leave empty. It leaves no space for some of us who lived in our youths the connection of Greek culture and resistance, of love for democracy and freedom with lyricism and the sense of music, which we heard at the "Axios Hesti" nights of the junta and we weeped, with the piano of Dionys at the "Pirivoli of Heaven", on one, if you want, super-violet, micronomous, micronomous. This man left today and accompanied by a nation. Watch out, not a party, but a nation. I believe that it is worth dedicating a few of the hopes within us to become better in the coming years and to lead things ahead of a path that he consistently drew. All Greeks will say goodbye to him, I imagine, apart from some exceptions, the known exceptions. All Greeks will say goodbye to him, and those who were with him fighters and those who then went and played various political roles in his life. But his work is immortal, is in our hearts, in our souls, and he will constantly accompany us. His memory is eternity! Ladies and gentlemen, let's come to the pedestrians. Unfortunately, I cannot comment on the wider internal political developments. The day before yesterday, we lived an unprecedented event. This is the first time in the chronicles of the Transmigration that a Prime Minister, unfortunately, deplores his government. In this Chamber we heard that the fires had been tackled with great success and driven away from the leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection. We heard that he faced the pandemic in a wonderful way and banished the head of the Ministry of Health. We were hearing about the tourism that is growing and this year it is better than ever and it drove the Minister of Tourism away. If this is not a confession of failure, referring directly to him, then what is it? The validation of the total incompetence of the infamous state of service to manage the critical circumstances experienced by the country. At the same time, he effectively expelled his centralist and modernistic character with a government that closes right clearly and with no cohesion, which suits local representations and satisfys customer and election audiences. He announced structural change and focused it on the new Ministry of Natural Disasters. It was enough the sensational image created by Admiral Apostolakis, a picture showing the complete clipping and improper character of the remodelling, which managed to create yet another sketch of vacancies between government and Civic Antipolitics. In conclusion, a reshape that was burnt before the new ministers were sworn out is a monument of gross failure that will henceforth mark the course of the government. A reform that does not honor the country and the functioning of the political system. Ladies and gentlemen, for a long time I have talked about the first cracks in government almighty, hegemony and self-sufficiency. The cracks are acidified and multiplyed. In my last speech to the House, before the holidays, I spoke about the triple counter-reform that the government plans and implements on the occasion of the summer's political apnea for work and labour relations, for the education area and now for insurance. Today's bill concludes a cycle with choices, which have a clear ideological identity is not politically sufficient and will prove inapplicable. The effort to lead the society of participating citizens to a society of passive individuals who accept fatalist decisions does not only have a purely conservative and neo-right person, but are mainly incomplete. They are appalled by its circumstance and needs. Invoke international practice. First, invoke it selectively and secondly, you are reliant on it. Selectively, because the capitalisation system does not apply everywhere and where it applies to its construction from a zero-based point of view in societies with elementary capacity, planning and rationalization of the state. They are also unscrupulous, because your proposal is not a continuity and transformation of an insurance system but is attempting a violent intersection of doubtful efficiency and perspective. Since memory in general in Parliament's Chamber is generally weak either from feasibility or from naiveness and ignorance, I would like to remind you that in 1981 the reserves of the insurance funds were 'paralleled' in the Bank of Greece and for the first time a policy of exploiting them was carried out. When we took over, half of Greece was uninsured. Only in cities with a sufficient number of residents were there elementary welfare. The PASOK government then developed IKA throughout the territory. In 1997, the additional funds were first consolidated. In 2002, we have forged the opportunityal state participation in the insurance system until then, with a mandatory return on resources to 1% of the state budget. In 2010, we set the limits of the main insurance, workers, self-employed, farmers, who were then abolished by SYRIZA and led to the current battalion of ECA. And in any case, let us compare pensions that the Law of Loverdou - Koutromanis ensured with those of the law of Katrugalos and Brutsis. I'm not saying that to bless our beards, not much more to convince you. I am saying this in order to prove a difficult process of evolutionary steps that are taking place in the territory of the real economy, not uncertain and precarious predictions with a view to a 50-year period. I would just like to remind you that a real controversy took place in our own countries, which acquired legal procedures which were not and were the ones of 2002. It's the well-known case with Mr. Yannitsi's proposal. The question has always been the same: will young people in particular receive pensions and a large part of the oldest on the basis of proportionate studies and how would the economy go over the next fifty years? And two logics colluded. One step later and another one that would result in a final result of these provisions. I do not want to deny the proportional studies, I do not want to see that as my position. Analogue studies must obviously take place, be there, show a path. But we cannot in a cash economy, in a crisis environment, say you have stable growth and on the basis of them you reach a point and arrange pensions after a few decades on whether you get or will not get young people and whether or not they are compared to old ones. A pit has a pit, if you're trying to implement in one country an incomplete social state planning policy for decades. We need to make a combination and find the next step. Is the next step in the capitalisation system, which you propose for supplementary pensions? I think I need to go back to the proportionate studies and say to Mr Brutsi, who was waving them in February 2020, to prove that by 2050 or 2070 pensions are fully guaranteed for new generations. And rightly, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the opposition asks you abundantly what changed radically so that for the next 50 years they will not be certain and that the ancillary capitalist system will be needed. I think you have a very short memory between February 2020 and September 2021. Your arguments are lame. Compare completely disparate systems with countries that have a completely different structure in a state and economy, for example, Sweden, which has the most integrated social state, with guaranteed resources, controls, investment and programming for all the years ahead, and therefore a proportionate study can also define the capitalisation system, while the social state is rapidly decomposing from your conservative policies. And let us build this social state step by step. You have been feeding young workers since 2022 on better pensions, which you obviously cannot guarantee by mocking the new generation, telling her that she will stop paying her parents' pensions. You are undermining the pensions of the old because you cannot guarantee that the cost of -56 to 70 billion depending on the studies - which the state budget will be able to pay for with what this means for the rapid increase in taxation which hits the weaker layers. You offer, outside the light you build, the cheese for the use of the resources of the new fund through investments in funds, titles of the outside and internal. So, you're putting the stock exchange and the huge risk of pensioning itself in what economy, with what stable growth rates, with what guarantee? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there are countries where the social organisation and benefits of the social state are so stable and permanent that the combination of social policy choices will lead to a fully rewarding insurance system. In Canada, for example, a month's work gives you the right to pension when you reach the age limit. It is a truly grand goal, I would say a progressive political agenda if it can be implemented. I wish we could get to that one time. But it's so far away for us. As long as there is no decent living income, as long as there are no full-time and well-paid jobs, as long as there are no health and education benefits that are not in the name of free, but, in fact, extremely expensive, as long as there are no equal opportunities and merits that do not exclude anyone, the insurance system cannot abandon or distort its redistributive character, perfect and clean. We must, ladies and gentlemen, continue with the evolutionary steps from where we left them and plan new changes, while at the same time reconstructing the modern social state fundamentally. But these are foreign to a deeply conservative and unilaterally oriented class government, which sees only the narrow horizon of its own interests, which does not hesitate to favour social automation and put into confrontation, even in the name of intergenerational solidarity, the old and younger generations, which do not have a clear class orientation, but is interested in the whole of Greek society. But this is a case of a progressive party and you, unfortunately, are not a progressive party.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u32	We shall proceed with Mrs Auger, who has spoken with her. The President of the Greek Solution Mr. Velopoulos will then take the floor and the colleagues Mr. Manolakos, Mr. Markopoulos and Mr. Thrafaniotis will follow. I am not saying this because there can be another speech from a party leader. Mrs Augiris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is saying good-bye to a great Greek, the world of the whole world. Mickeys Theodorakis passes to eternity. But his work is so great, so rich, that it is capable and sufficient to feed our own, and the next, and the next, and the next generations, as we speak about this bill today, about the new generation. Under this burden and with this thrill we are now being called upon to speak, put and vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken several times about the reversal of the terms by which the Mitsotakis Government defines the context and content of the public speech in order to fanatically implement its outdated neoliberal policies. Such a practice was seen in the first, for example, period of New Democracy's governance when in the NOVARTIS Committee of Inquiry the defendants appeared as prosecutors. The terms have also been reversed in the titles of critical bills passed by this House, such as the so-called upgrading of school, the supposed protection of the environment or supposedly protection of work. Terms are also reversed in the pandemic with redundancies, today, and the job suspensions of doctors and nurses, those who the Prime Minister's couple, a few months ago, applauded them and called them heroes. Terms are reversed in the natural environment, with the Prime Minister talking about the trees he sees as right, leaving the wrong trees to burn. What if the greatest natural disaster in recent years has occurred in the country? What if the pandemic doesn't retreat? What if we have more than thirteen thousand dead because of the Covid virus -19? What if the public health system and primary care have been dissolved? The "final" New Democracy, this "the other party", which Mr Mitsotakis is evangelizing, is here today to support an allegedly social reform for the new generation. So Mr Mitsotakis' New Democracy speaks of a new generation and promises young people that they will once be retired. He dares promise better pensions to the same young people who beat them and loaded them with responsibilities for dispersal of the pandemic. He dares to promise better pensions to the same young people who artificially threw them out of universities, saying that he "speaked" them by the universities, prescribing their future as a cheap workforce. So what are you talking about, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis? They are now losing, as it is understandable, the words and the last meanings they have left. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there is one truth in all this and many ways in which the government hides the truth. The truth is that your Government is implementing an organised plan for the transfer of wealth from the public sector to the private sector, from small businesses to large groups, from the social state to the market, from wage labour to large capital and ultimately from many to few. Aggregation of capital in a few and conscientious ways. The new generation can therefore only hope that at some point, in an unknown future, this accumulated wealth will be channelled downwards. What they do not say to the new generation is that any little hope of getting something will be a little - very in terms of 'Let's bet'. And this is where their neo-democratic secrets and neo-democratic lies begin. Here comes the government and its mouthpieces and they say that the distribution system is not mutual, because it leads to low pensions. How does it lead to low pensions? It leads to low pensions, because it is based only on contributions, total contributions are reduced each year, so pensions will be lower and two-digit annual deficits cannot be covered by taxation. So because insurance does not come out and does not come out of wages well, it is urgent to introduce a system of capitalisation, first of all to subsidiary bodies, but also to the main. What are we told by the lobbies of the capitalist system, who speak in this Chamber? First of all, we are told that insurance is not viable, although the government for months had been insisting that it has guaranteed its viability for decades, while at the same time, with the most conservative estimates, positive scenarios, the so-called ‘transition costs’ will exceed EUR 56 billion over a period of time. The cost of transition is a good way to say the word Memorandum nowadays. And here comes you, that way, growth will come. Because the new system of individual accounts will make savings and the investments will be made. In other words, the strong growth promised by Mr. Mitsotakis will not come from the investment of the great, but from the individual buckets of the young, whose life becomes an impenetrable and impenetrable "Share and work". Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis' right will tell us that we on the left do not know how the markets work. On the right obviously they have no idea about society. Hence the attempt to appraise this anti-social and unequivocal existence of public wealth and to curtail democratic rights. How? By receiving several versions of the same individual narrative. That's how a dystopia arises, where the liberal state says to you, "Health? Education? That's as far as I can. For more to private individuals. Environment? That's as far as I can. The trees are not the right ones. They'll take care of the private. Public space? Till a long walk and a lot of you are. The rest will be arranged by the private individuals. Insurance? That's as far as I can. Play bet if you want more.’ Of course, the "up to here" of the state of staff is actually the "up to this I want". The great concern is to refill the balances of a few and spoken market players. This time, it is the liberal propaganda that is trying a little bit to confuse the future victims of capitalism. Solidarity and poor or atomic gambling and rich? This raises the question, without saying that he can promise profits for everyone, but as the band never loses. This is the moral formation of the government of another Mitsotakis. Let the world consider what they said to him in the fires. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Those who think and say so come to guarantee high pensions with the returns of markets and the guarantee of a state that the markets control. In these two, unfortunately, the people as a third do not seem to fit. The experience of the memorials has been mediated and we have seen who has finally paid the broken gambling of systemic banks. Let us not, therefore, burden the new generation and the effective insurance. Some place to put an end to the burnt land that leaves behind the system that Mr. Mitsotakis serves. Very soon this end will be written by young people themselves to take their lives and their dreams back, singing "Youth of Justice has become understandable and splendid."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aeger. Good morning, me too. Let me also say that only grief has caused the death of the emblematic Greek music composer Mikis Theodorakis. His memory is eternity. Besides, his songs will accompany us forever. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to extend what the honourable Member said about Mickey Theodorakis, "Don't, please don't forget my country." This is what Mickeys Theodorakis said and this must be true for all of us, not forgetting our country, our country, our nation, our history and our culture. We are compelled by people like Mickey Theodorakis to honor them, because for us the sterling honors the first. He was a photographer. He had spoken of the Prespecies Agreement, treason, shameful, bad, misguided. He had talked about national issues. He was a Greek who spoke to the soul of the Greeks. I'd like to start with the bill. This government is Jack Slots's government. You know, casino. Started by the casinos, he downloaded them from Parnitha, brought them here somewhere in the north suburbs. It opens at the Greek casino. Now Jack Slots, New Democracy, is gambling with the Greeks' money. Mr. Secretary, I don't know you personally, I don't know you. I waited for the Minister to be here, but in any case, PASOK always has good officials and the Prime Minister accepts them with a lot of love, cares for them in PASOK the Prime Minister of the country, because rather the wrong party is the President, while it should be PASOK, is the New Democracy. I don't have anything with the style and the spirit. I know of course you are or rather you were PASOK, because I don't know what you are now. The political and ideological consciousness of Greek politicians, which despise their own politics with their choices, is so fluid. And I say this for all of us, it is not personal reproach to the Minister. But I would like to tell you this. With what right, who gives you the right to play the money of the insurance funds you as a government in the Stock Exchange, in any capitalization programs? Tell me, who gives you the right. And the question, if you want - did you do so, as many countries do? - why don't you do what Canadians do that their insurance funds invested in "Eleftherios Venizelos"? Why don't you do what the Norwegians do, where the insurance funds invested their capital in oil and gas mining? Why do you have to gamble as Jack the Scooper? Tell me about it. What if the money is lost? Will you, like always legislate against those responsible who lose their pensioners' money? That's what you need to answer here. What is the insurance policy, namely, that Greek insured people's money will not be lost, as they did - not you, PASOK, you were then - as New Democracy did with the ECA, if you remember well, many years ago. I say this because we just came here for one reason, to point out, to show your mistakes and to help you, whatever government, and not to repeat them. Because the time will come when you will be invited by the Greek Solution to apologize for the constant crimes you do when the Greek solution takes over the country's fates in a few years at most. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Ladies and gentlemen, our country's biggest problem is that it is governed by parties that think they can cover the disasters, which they willfully or inadvertently do with their inability. This is a passionateness of the Greek political staff, of the Greek parties that constantly make catastrophes, they say an apology and if they say so, and go below. However, with new loans, this government is continuing to overdebt our country to foreigners. This government gives heavy consideration to foreigners on many levels, mainly national - see Skopje, Albania, with the North continent, Turkey. We trade the borrowings with the loss of national sovereignty. For us it is incomprehensible for any loan, for any silver to exchange national issues. It's over and out. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And how proud this government is when it increased the public debt by EUR 26 billion from May to June 2021. From EUR 361 billion went EUR 387 billion. I heard some journalists from SKAI yesterday. They pretended to be journalists, not anything else, I don't even care about the existence of the channel, I think it's the worst thing for journalism that this channel is for many other reasons, but I'm only talking about journalism. He did, then, the journalist "tweet" and he was glad that Greece borrowed - he says - low. It's unbelievable what's going on. To be happy to borrow low-priced, rather than to be happy to produce wealth and can be shared by this to the Greek people. Because when you're happy to borrow low-priced, or at a low-interest rate, sometime the next generation will be called to pay for that money. Where's he gonna pay it from? Has he ever considered this party called New Democracy that it has not made a plan to produce wealth in order for Greece to produce wealth? In just two years, this government borrowed 41 billion euros. EUR 71 billion damage. It has created no government since the age of EUR 71 billion in two years of damage to the Greek state, to the Greek citizen. They're retired of the New Democracy, they're happy. 'We have borrowed low-priced' as if they were going to pay for it. The Greek people, from their posture, from their work, will be asked again to pay for the broken ones. Why? Because your inability once more to produce wealth comes destructively as a throat to level everything. The economy. It's coming dark winter. Says who? Mr. Kavathas, President of the General Confederation of Craft Trades of Greece. One in three catering businesses with the new measures will put a padlock on. It's gonna be a 50% reduction in clientele, he says. Two hundred thousand people are at risk of being unemployed. Where's the place going? Where's the country going? Where is New Democracy taking her? The only thing that matters to the Greek Prime Minister is his profile not to crack, not to break his communication image, not to crack - if you want - his image - I will not say to Moses, will be inconceivable - great leader. There has been a 37.6% increase in youth unemployment in Greece in July, EUROSTAT. Where are we going, guys, huh? How can we constantly mock a people? The government today, now that we are talking about, throws 230 billion euros of lignite - throwing them out of the window - and 300 billion euros of green gas, as Mr Denkias said. We're not gonna do gas mining, we're gonna throw out the lignite to get the Germans to work. And I ask you: Who gives you the right, who gives the Greek Prime Minister the right to fly EUR 230 billion of lignite and EUR 300 billion of natural gas? Who legalizes you New Democracy MPs? That you took 40% two years ago? You got it in time. You don't understand? You didn't take it because you have a schedule. You took it because you lied, as the parties who want to rule are always lying. I'll tell you raw. Do exactly the opposite of what the New Democracy party, what you say about the people's right, of the patriots, because many Members are patriots in the New Democracy, but with their actions and voting and voting, they support a government is not a New Democracy, but it is PASOK, SYRIZA, New Democracy and that is the truth. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Here was the Minister, but he disappeared. A few months ago he said here that we would do PPC this and lower the invoice. We have the most expensive current in Europe and we also have an increase of 50%. Ask you why you're a professor. Do you know what PPC means to increase tariffs? Let me tell you. It's not just social. You're wrong. He's not just the poor guy who's gonna cut his current. There are also companies that cannot produce competing products, because current is more expensive. How am I supposed to produce products? I'm a businessman. You're not the rest of us. When I know that PPC's invoice is increasing, it increases my product cost which means that I have to add it to my product and cannot compete with German, French and Italian. How's that going to happen? Is that an economic policy? I can't really understand how you're working. The price of KWh is the most expensive in Europe. The Minister comes out, Mr. Hatzidakis, and tells SKAI that the current has been up in all countries. But we didn't get the power up, we got the power off. Don't we understand that? Report by the Commission. Greece has the seventh largest energy dependence in the European Union, 93%. Do you know that Greece does not have its own energy while it is a country that has gas? 93% we import gas and oil! For those who have the refineries, we take oil at an exact price, and for those who take the gas they have made an earlier deal, again New Democracy, to get it 30% more expensive than other countries. What governments do we have, my God? All phosphites, all brilliant in these governments in Greece are coming? Germany is now using lignite and natural gas. Do you know how much the currency, gentlemen of the New Democracy, we made out of Greece to buy wind turbines? From around EUR 30 to 80 billion Greece loses - and I say it is not me, Foscolos says it, the well-known professor who knows energy - in three, four, five, six years from wind turbines. Why? Now listen. I pay the windmill to the Germans, I send my money abroad, and I have an export exchange. There's no money left here. What money is that? The EUR 12 billion from the Recovery Fund. So what are you doing now? You take 12 billion euros and you put on wind turbines. But now I'm going to teach you ecological anaesthesia, because some people don't understand what a windmill means. To build a 3MW wind turbines, it takes a thousand two hundred tons of cement to get the wind turbines in, but the ecological wind turbines. That cement won't come out in a thousand years. He's going to stay there forever. Thirty-five tonnes of steel, metals and zinc, four tons of copper, three tons of aluminium, six hundred tons of rare earths, cobalt, plastic with resins, treatment of rare earths to get the elements I want with sulphur and hydrochloric acid - these are used - with the result of four hundred to twenty thousand cubic feet of toxic gases, two thousand cubic feet of acidic waste and a tonne of radioactive waste that sends them all to lakes. A cooling, very powerful, sulphur hexafluoride is also used. These are from the University of Canada. I'm not making it out of his head, Velopoulos. It's twenty-three thousand times as dangerous as carbon dioxide. A 3MW wind generator costs 7 million and a 300MW lignite station if I use a hundred ten wind turbines it costs 720 million and I replace them every twenty years. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you commit a crime that will be placed in all the ridges of Greece over the next twenty years. Stop the windshield crime. They're polluting. It's not ecological. Leave climate change in part and use the gas Greece has at least. Do something about this, 300 billion euros thrown money is, which the place has and you throw it away. Citizens are unprotected. In the juncture of the krone, you have brought in provisions that speed up only the financial powerful banks' trials. You only care about them, not about the citizen, not about the wide popular layers, not about the employee, not about the civil servant, not about the retired, not about the farmer, not about the farmer, not about the fisherman, only about the fewer friends you serve and serve. They're the ones you're dealing with, and they're the ones you're dealing with. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You have destroyed sixty years of the country, all governments, agriculture, livestock, fisheries, industry and crafts. In Kavala there were two major industries employing thousands of workers. Both industries SYRIZA, New Democracy, KINAL, did everything to shut them down. They only produce recruitments for these parties with subsidies, 500 euros with borrowers. ‘LARCO’, citizens in bankruptcy. What was Larco extracting? Ferro-nickel. What is produced by the hydrometallic production of ferro-nickel? Cobalt. How many mines are there in the world like Larco? Two, one in Finland and one in Greece. You've booked those too, you and you! Clear things. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Where does the cobalt need? In the production of car battery. We're so stupid! There are two factories in Europe. One was here and you closed it! What do we say? What's our difference? We have Crete as a model. Crete contributes to 25% of the country's GDP as Crete. But there is not only the 'culture' of tourism. There are other crops. Tourism contributes to 45% of Crete's GDP, the rest comes from the primary sector, rural economy from Lasithi, Heraklion, Chania, from all regions and from the secondary sector. That means economy, not one foot in tourism. You're committing crimes and mistakes. Evidence is the response of the French European Commissioner for Foreign Markets to the Greek Solution. Listen, when Velopoulos and Greek Solution speak, he knows very well what he says. The Commissioner himself admits the great opportunities identified in the cosmetics and herbal and medicinal products sector. He says so himself in his letter. And it blames on New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL, which since 2004 has not made a plan to absorb the money and produce the farmer's products and pharmaceutical herbs and make them industrial products. The Commissioner says so. This failure is charged to three. We call it, we change it, we fix it, we finally change the country's economy. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] They sell everything. You gave up Egnatia Street. Who gives you the right to the largest street in the Balkans, which is six hundred and seven hundred kilometers, alongside Greece to sell it? Why? It cost 7 billion euros. The Greeks paid her. You give it to EUR 1.5 billion for thirty-five years and you are not ashamed! You are not ashamed when it has a turnover of 200 million to four or five tolls, you will put twenty-one tolls, which means five times the profits, that is, five times two, 1 billion a year will be made by the Egnatia Road. Approximately 35 billion will be made by your main friends, your relatives and friends, the few-girl, the relatives of Ministers, the constitutional best friends of the Prime Minister. They're making money. And I am sorry and sad that this party, the New Democracy, with a Leader who does not feel New Democracy, is led to the center by losing the compass of its real ideological base. The voter of the New Democracy is not interested in being a center, or a center, because you have become the New Republic of Oligarchs in an erroneous political choice. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] What are you doing now? You're giving another $20 million to the media. You're giving it back. Good for you. What can we do? After all, you are served by them and serve them too. It's a media transaction. Every morning on all the channels I see the ministers and MPs of the New Democracy going through a court of pasarella and saying the very same thing, to justify unjustifiedity. With lies you won't rule for long. The Prime Minister of the country came to the Greek Parliament and lied and no one spoke. I never lied to the Prime Minister, but he forces me to tell him he's lying. He came to say that the school in Larissa did so by the government and you were not all ashamed in New Democracy, who the Prime Minister of the country falsely claimed that the school did so in the earthquaked areas? Shame on you! GEOEC TERNA did it for free, not the government. So you don't finally lie! That's enough of the lies in the Greek Parliament. Greece is a country with competent citizens, but corrupt politicians and not in scandals and money alone, but in the logic corrupted, since they believe the lies they say, since they are consciously lying to the Prime Ministers and their Prime Ministers and believe them themselves. We know well that Greeks are capable fighters at all levels, production, trade, education, art, culture, research, military operations. With what the Greek is swallowing, it works. The damage is done by the rotten, corrupt economist elite of the country, which sabotages every act and action of the Greek businessman and helps its own state-run people. People are sick of old-fashioned perception and this rotten mentality. We need to change it. They must be 55% of the Greeks who do not vote and must vote to the next elections to vote and slap the dirty and rotten system, the incompetent one if you like. That is our view. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The Prime Minister says that Greece needs rebooting. No, ladies and gentlemen, Greece does not need any resumption in the doctrine of the new view and understanding of those who want to impose anti-grass and inhumane measures against the peoples. Greece does not need to reboot. Greece needs a'relapse'. To go back to production, to life, to work, to the honor of the Greek. This is where Greece needs to make its own "re-engineering". [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I would like now, because there is little time, to say something to the Minister. I really am ashamed to read the statement and understand why all this is happening in the Greek Solution. We are the only party that never goes to any channel. Never! We never showed up!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u36	You've got a show too!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u37	That's where I buy it. If you have money, you buy too. Pay to buy, too. That's good. But you never pay. You want it all for nothing. Canal free, no Facebook, no free everywhere. I, as an entrepreneur, know that if I don't sow, I don't reap. If I don't pay, my dear colleague, I'm not going anywhere. And that's a job because there are five hundred workers there. That's what you don't understand. Around the concentric circles of my company there are five hundred families I will honor to the end, because that's how I learned from a young child, because I'm from a poor family. It was my father in Germany and my father in hotels, my mother, and I learned that the good work is being done and I have to work so that I can produce wealth. That's what I learned in my life, and that's what I'm going to do. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] On 13-6-2019: "My goal is to shrink the two parties that are right of the New Democracy," he said Prime Minister. "Velopoulos must not enter the Greek Parliament." That's what the Greek Prime Minister told OPEN on 13-6-2019. Then I passed him, but in the course of the day I realized that the only problem the Greek Prime Minister has is the Greek Solution. It all started since I joined the House. A million three hundred thousand euros of the PSE fine that people see and laugh at was not imposed on any channel. He got to me. The ILO comes to business every three months. That is the democratic deficit. We've been excluded from the channels, they've thrown all my bills, not mine, I'm not dealing with social media, but with my users and Twitter managers, on mass media, I've been blocked by Facebook, not mine, but by the President of the Greek Solution. So, gentlemen of the New Democracy, who are controlled by unwanted Facebook hoaxes through other companies, because I know very well what's going on there, you drive the country into an institutional crisis and a democracy deficit. You choose unconstitutional practices that hurt our democracy. In all your behaviour there is an illegal anti-democratic act. You want justice to restrict freedom of expression. It takes - frankly I say this - a lot of soul to say no to these choices of the Prime Minister's own environment. I am ashamed to say it, because I did not see a Prime Minister standing up and saying: "To this extent! Not all of my MPs can go out to “SKE”” in “AND1” and not go out of SYRIZA and not go out of the KEI, not go out of KINAL. We're missing, I've said it a thousand times. You are not interested, ladies and gentlemen, in the other parties. It's okay. Me personally and the Greek Solution are of interest to us in isology, equity and democracy. We all have to show up! It's over and over! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I'm saying all this because the government's job isn't to decide who's going out on the channels and who's not. It's the government's job to obey orders, not to give orders! He must obey the orders of the Greek people, the orders of the Greek worker, the Greek man who fights, who struggles. Her job isn't to fade others. The government is just a servant of the Greek people. He's a temporary servant. It is not in her duties to determine what is right and what is wrong. The only thing the government does is to transfer the wealth of the Greek people to friends of the few. He shows successful state rulers. Look at those who have channels, most of them are state-owned. See the fewer ones in Greece. Everyone boobs from the breast of Greece, which they consider to be a cow, unfortunately, Greece. They boob and leave nothing to the Greek citizen. The New Democracy rewards it with new gifts, with new roads, with new wind turbines, with wind growth, with green growth. He's giving them money. And the investment makes it by abolishing - directly I will say it - healthy competition. When you subsidize and you subsidise, when you legislate for certain interests, you rip out business competition. You close others - see Fietzoglou - to have other best friends and friends of yours. This will stop with the Greek Solution. There will be dignity and the noble competition of entrepreneurs. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You made a Greece of Athenocentric, a Greece of the absolute concentration in Athens and Kolonaki, a Greece that the parliamentarians of the province have no say and view, a Greece in which only the center, called Kolonaki, governs the place. This Athens has grown. Dependent interests have been created. We're gonna break that in legality. These interests must be fought. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We should not focus on serving the interests of the oligarchs but on serving the interests of the Greek citizens. That's the only way to change Greece. And what did you do as a New Democracy? We had an outbreak of the coronary and they were saying 'Block into your homes, the state has no hospitals, lockdown'. Greece is on fire "evacuate your homes, run the streets to save you". Is that a government? Are we serious? Is that government and governance? Listen, gentlemen of the New Democracy. A government that has a policy to rob the people to pay the fewer ones can only rely on the fewer ones. The Greek Solution is based on the people and not on the few. That's our difference and it's ideological. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And we, this political deception of the Greek people, of political fraud, do not let it survive, we break it with arguments, we break it with legality. And I will tell you once again: we will shake you to legitimacy! The illegality and destruction of the Greek people and the perversion of the Constitution are enough. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I'll tell you one more thing. You're getting some constitutional professors to justify your anti-constitutional enforcement. You impose unconstitutional things on the Greek people and every professor of Constitutional Law comes out and defends your lives tonight. Why didn't you make a constitutional court? Make a constitutional court. The Council of State is not a constitutional court. The Council of State is elected and elected by the Government through committees. Didn't you know that? And decisions are political, unfortunately, many times. And the good and honest judges and prosecutors are left with the margins. Why? Because every government must put its own prosecutor, its own judge. I'm sorry to say that. I'm sorry to say it again. Justice must be independent, it must be blind, it must be deaf to be fair. Members of the New Democracy, you denounce Mr Tsipras that he sold Macedonia, but you support the man he signed on the mandate of the Prime Minister, who first signed this treason against us, wronged by others - Prespecies Agreement. You wanted to make Mr. Apostolakis Minister, and you're not ashamed? Aren't you all ashamed of the gentlemen of the New Democracy, its MPs? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'm not saying, I know what's going on in the New Democracy, it's boiling in the New Democracy, but you know that from the very boiling point of view you'll be evaporated in the end. You will evaporate, not polluted - these are paid, leave them - you will evaporate into the poll. And I will tell you to understand it: you have sold Macedonia. Mr. Tsipras was awarded. I didn't understand why he was awarded. Of course he was tricked, instead of a Nobel Prize, they gave him a fourth-class prize in Germany. To understand that you are being used by the Germans and thrown in the basket afterwards. These are really very miserable for a country like Greece. She's very miserable. And I would like to say this: Now, gentlemen of SYRIZA, your friends, the Skopje, signed an agreement with Turkey. Didn't you say it was an impediment to the deal? What happened all of a sudden? The Turkish Interior Minister went there, Zaev went to Turkey and signed a defensive agreement. How did that happen? It's the government's fault, I guess, yeah. This government has nothing to do with it. Let me tell you why: SYRIZA, YOU - THESE SYRIZA. Because "continuation has the state" they said. The New Democracy and the Prime Minister and the Ministers said so. He has the state all the time and after he has the state, we will do everything possible and what SYRIZA has done. After ID, you will be invited to the Prespecies Agreement protocols. There I can see what you're going to do, gentlemen of the New Democracy. To see the Macedonians, with chlamys, costumes, and I swept out to the House and said "yes" to everything. That's what we'll see. Let me see how many will keep the political word, the national word of this party that Constantine Karamanlis gave birth to I, who said nation - history - culture - Macedonia is the same and said, "Macedonia is Greece and Greek". Let me see what you're gonna do. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And because time is pushing, I'd just like to suggest something simple. You are all talking about rights of illegal immigrants. The Northcontinents are being dismantled. Nobody's talking. Rama has confiscated fortunes of Greek Bosnian people. No one speaks to the Greek Parliament. Nobody says anything. They bring Afghans to the North Continent. Nobody's talking. It's okay, let's go down. The Romanian government, ladies and gentlemen, opens schools on the Northern continent for the so-called Vlach minority, forcing the Greek Vlachs to make an announcement that they are Greeks. Nobody's talking. We left them there our Northcontinental brothers. But, what I'm saying, this is where the Prime Minister lied to the Greek Parliament. He told me that the pensions of the North-West of the Greeks who came would be given. It's been two years since, and pensions are still on foot from the North Pole. You're tolerant of everything. I was watching this doll three meters, Amal what it's called, roaming around Greece. And this government, while you defend the right to make rallys and marches when we want to, banned thirteenth-year-olds, banned a epitaph and allowed Amal to march all over Greece. If that's what you call democracy, I have another view. The bourgeois and sariki in Greece are acceptable. So you go out in a skirt and a bracelet, they throw you out of a lot of chemicals, maybe lemon buffalo buffalo. That's not Greece. This is not what the New Democracy is serving. Constantine Karamanlis never served this thing. I would also like to say this because coexistence is the success of a society. We need to coexist harmoniously with whoever we host in the country. That's for granted. Harmonic. The thing is if he wants it, and it's about whether I can accept claustrophes under the Omonia. I can't accept them. How much I can accept getting married eight-year-old girls. I can't accept it. If you can, build this society for which the Greek Prime Minister is taking over that he wants us to be multicultural. We want a Greek tolerant but Greek and Christian. To be tolerant, but Greek and Christian. I'd like to close here now. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot understand what has happened. I saw the good colleague, who now speaks to SKAI one morning and said that "Greece has managed to defend itself with New Democracy". That's not a political feat. This is a high duty. So the successful ministers of Evros, Mr. Stefan and Chrysochide - so you said, they were successful - you dumped them in the trash. The successful ministers, as you were saying, of the pandemic, Mr. Kikilia and Mr. Kontozamani, you threw them in the trash. Or, then, they weren't successful and you lied or they're successful, and you throw them in the trash you're wrong. Either one is either the other, it exposes you. They were either failed or successful. Choose. You won't throw them away. After they did, why do you throw them away? I forgot, the Prime Minister's weakness is to surround and include those who are here, PASOK, SYRIZA, make them Ministers. Don't you feel bad about the New Democracy MPs? Isn't it unfair for you to take all the plaque, all the fight to convince voters - and you're right, fight to convince them - that their mistakes are not mistakes, are inadvertent and correct them, etc., and to come up with a paratrooper - I'm not saying about the Minister, is the Minister a different story, is PASOK - come from SYRIZA or from another party and take your chair? I don't get it. Then you are not capable, ladies and gentlemen. You in the New Democracy, its MPs, are not capable of running a ministry. You don't have the Prime Minister capable. So either the Prime Minister must become President of PASOK or you must change the president. Another excuse I cannot say, with all the humility that distinguishes me and all - if you want - the soundness. We live in this country where the government is confronted with its government yesterday. I hear the neo-democrats 'you did it to SYRIZA', then they go out of SYRIZA and say others. In other words, we will only talk about the bad texts, what did the previous one do, and what do we do? With these logics, we live in a failed political climate. The Prime Minister with his options shows that he is a foreign body in New Democracy and New Democracy is a foreign party from the New Democracy. In short, you have a short of a KKE, a short of SYRIZA, a short of a Change Movement, a short of an ex-LAOS. Is that right? With a little perfume on top, salt and pepper, New Democracy. The more I see the centre-right government of Mitsotakis, the more you remember the socialist government of Samaras. You're the same, Venizelos - Samaras. Now you do the same things, the same things exactly. Stop blackmailing doctors, stop blackmailing doctors. The doctors will leave and people will die. It was the doctors that the Prime Minister and his wife - and they did well - told us to go out at 21:00 to applaud them. And today you're blackmailing them! The suspension, non-payment, marginalisation of yesterday's heroes is the worst thing New Democracy can do. They'll close hospitals, not to think of what the Left says and they'll have a base, that they'll shut down the hospitals to work on your customers, the few of them who have their own hospitals to bloom their economy. Stop the crime you're going to do. Nurses, doctors, hospital people are the beacons of humanity, they are the beacons of Greece and we must support them, not blackmail them. To support them, give them money, give them the opportunity to work and save lives. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You're criminal! And the worst part is you're playing crowns with people's lives. You don't have the right to lose a Greek from criminal mistakes in health. That's as a warning. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Velopoulos. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u39	And this bill of yours is for capital, since it is a financial instrument for the next forty years, for strengthening business groups in the name of capitalist growth and for looking at the so-called reward part of the main pension. You present it to us as modern though it copys the 1950s and presents all bankrupt arguments for the capitalisation system as new. Of course, it is a continuation of all overturns in social security by the laws of the PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA, based on the directions of the European Union. It completes the robbery of millions of workers and turns insurance for young workers into an individual case. It is a challenge to show as positive and innovative the gamble of employee contributions. Moreover, workers do not forget that private-security mathematics in Greece and around the world collapsed, leading to despair of thousands of workers. And it's too much of a lie and big talk. You are trying to mislead, especially for the future of youth, when you have convicted them by another law an abortion for workers whose work protection means ten hours, intensification and unpaid hours of work. They are now being asked to learn about their insurance that it will be an investment and an individual risk, but that they themselves will be characterized by investors who gamble on stock exchanges their life-long hardships. When a majority of young people work with flexible working relationships, with low wages and thousands of unemployed, proportional pensions are literally equivalent to crumbs. However, this is a single attack by the European Union and the urban governments on the social nature of insurance, by converting it into an individual case, into an investment and a financial product, with the aim of guaranteeing guaranteed profits to the private groups that break the insurance. It is the application of the anti-French European pillar of social rights of the European Union and of the principle of 15, which abolishes the State obligation and liability to guarantee pension benefits that are now individualised and traded. In Greece it has been delayed many years, due to major labour struggles. But, in essence, with the application of the European pension directive, the right to pension is transformed from a collective social right to an individual. In fact, subsidiary insurance becomes compulsory, charging an extra weight on the back of the city and the village's self-employed, that is, the farm. And an increase of 20% in their contributions will lead to a new increase in debts in their funds, when already 91% of traders of craft trades declare the lowest contribution, a sign of economic weakness and deadlock. Now you're releasing them even more. The invocation by the government of examples from Scandinavian countries where these guidelines are already being implemented, trying to convince workers that they will receive higher pensions, is frustrated by the figures provided by the official services of these countries, which led to losses in their income, has made it possible for pensioners to seek work to supplement their income. In Denmark, for decades, pensions have been divided into national and reciprocity. The result is that the only guarantee is to provide a basic pension for poverty and charity by the state, financed by general taxation on the basis of the three pillars. Insured investors in Denmark have the right to choose any investor who wishes and at the same time to what category of stock exchange products will gamble their contributions into low, medium or high risk products, without knowing what they will get and whether they will take them. They say today's 24-year-old will retire to seventy-four, while more and more retired people won't make it. They are impoverished and looking for various benefits. According to official figures, seventeen thousand Danish pensioners live below the poverty line, but also recently it is estimated that the 2020 stock market turmoil cost the Danish pensioners more than 300 billion krone, about 40 billion euros. It is therefore clear that the government is mobilising the 80 billion-billion-dollar robbery over time which delivers it to the corals of private insurance and private health. The same developments show the need for a request for public universal compulsory social security, for the building of a single system comprising pension rights, integrated prevention and rehabilitation services, for a full state guarantee and for an increase in pensions that ensure income in terms of modern needs. Insurance is right, not gambling. It's a class issue, so it's not good. And the struggles should not only delay anti-grassroots policies, but definitively overthrow them. That is why I will close with the wrestling of the great and immortal work of Mickey in lyrics of Yannis Ritsos: "Rome do not cry about it. Throwing her from the beginning and masturbating and plucking the harvest, your capitalist rot, in the sun's fountain. And that's how it has to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs Manolakou. It is now called in Stepma, Mr. Dimitris Markopoulos, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, clearly the news of the death of Mickey Theodorakis, this great Greek, is the news of the days. Mickeys Theodorakis, not just melody, did something much more. Unify. It united all of us, all those who are creatively, democratically disagree, we agree. He managed to unite with the presence of different political spaces, the Left, which was his political womb, us, the great central right-wing party with which he co-operated with Constantine Mitsotakis. And with his life, this long social, political, creative life, he managed to give the Greeks, the Greeks who easily split, badly lies, the only message of unity that we need to move forward as a nation. So Mickey was Mickey all. He was Mickis of all Greeks and we must not forget that. I'm going to go through this bill now. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know where the country arrived a few years ago. The economic problems and problems that I think have to deal with with many factors for which the urban political system is also responsible - our own meea culpa, our inertia, our atmosphere - have been factors that have led to the specific problems of the country's insurance system. Obviously, it was the bourgeois governments. We beat up, we didn't make the cuts we had to. We have put forward useful policies. However, this will not exclude from our criticism and the domestic left a reactionary Left that canceled and postponed everything that had to be done. I heard the Minister of Labour yesterday, Mr Hatzidakis, who told SYRIZA's colleagues that SYRIZA is currently our sponsor because of the way in which he is opposed. I'm going to expand it a little. I think that SYRIZA is the donor of all inaction and the Left in total has led to any attempts to reform the insurance system for many years not to be implemented in the end. And how did that happen? With the rigidity that cancels every solution to the insurance, with the demonization, with the excesses, by petrifying a series of efforts, which have not only been done now, to be honest. Efforts have been made in the past. I am impressed that these days we have heard many complaints from the whole Opposition. But there is a deficit in all of this. We have not heard proposals, a proposal, something creative, something that will lead us forward, possibly compose, agree and agree. Refusal, reaction, rockball. I hear the President of SYRIZA, Mr Tsipras, often speaking as a monopoly representative of the new generation, as some kind of contractor of the new generation. Perhaps in his mind he has taken the contractorial expression of this space. That is what insurance, however, comes here as a reform for this youth is talking about. No proposal, therefore, for what must be done to ensure our young people, when there is a sustainable statement from the staff of the Ministry of Labour. We didn't hear a solution. What does SYRIZA say about demographic overturns? What's the proposal? 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no'; Greece, ladies and gentlemen, is ageing. Young people are lifting heavy weight, and the opposition to all of this is "whispering indifferent", grumpy, without wanting to give a solution. The main objective of this reform is, therefore, our young people, and we should say that, it is a bill for young people to ensure higher pensions for them. With the reaction, we are basically stoned and seducing the future of people who enter the labour market and once want to retire. The capitalising dimension attached to this draft law therefore concerns these young people. As you know, social security is nowadays distributed. The contributions of young workers are now paying for their pensions. The demographic issue must, however, trigger us. We must move on to action, not to hide as has been done before - and I come here again - because of the sterile reaction to the problem 'underneath the carpet'. If we do not solve the problem of subsidiary insurance today, there will be further reductions in pensions tomorrow. Sweden, the Netherlands, Denmark, Finland, countries which have followed things that are currently suggesting the staff of the Ministry of Labour, are wrong? Does the domestic left have to propose anything different from what the Liberal Social Democrat or, if you like, the Social Democrat Republic of Northern Europe has proposed in recent years? Why do we not want to see increases that can even reach 48% or 63% in the pensions of those entering the labour market? Do we deny it? Do we have any such luxury? You should tell the young people that by voting against this bill, we do not want there to be any increases in pensions. That is why we are talking about the individual'multiple'. That is why we are talking about a new public body - I repeat - a public fund guaranteeing contributions. We do not want money to be lost in the future. That is why we want the insured to have full control of the contributions. I dare say that a specific insurance reform translates possibly other policies. But that is the great value of the New Democracy. We're coming to compose. That's a lie we're privatising. The fact is that we are not talking about the There'll be a check. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that the country must look ahead. The birth rate, the ageing population are "bombs" on our foundations. We cannot hide these problems again. So this bill is a bill of stability and perspective. Those who really are cut off for young people and those who want to speak on behalf of young people should do their duty, do something for young people, not for words, but for actions. We too, in voting for this bill, look into the eyes of young people in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Marcopoulou. Mr Emmanuel Thraniotis is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and Mr Barkas is prepared by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. I also inform you that we are waiting for the President of the Group of the Parliamentary Movement of Change, Ms. Gennamata, who informed that he will be coming at 12.00 p.m. Mr. Thraniotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, before I refer to the bill, to say that the news of Mickey Theodorakis' death can only fill us with sorrow for his natural loss. His presence, however, will remain alive, especially for those who have been nurtured and inspired by his music and struggles in difficult times. He managed to make Greek poetry known in a way that would become an estate to the general Greek public through his music, a great deposit. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing the draft supplementary insurance law, under a false title: "Security reform for New Generation: Introduction of a capitalisation system of pre-contributions to subsidiary insurance, establishment and operation of a Capital Insurance Fund", with a heavier and misleading title and with an interest in the new generation, clearly reminding us that one of the things of interest to an authoritarian government such as yours is to provoke or distort the meaning of its actions in order to manipulate its citizens more easily. Our rapporteur, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, has fully and documented your account. It showed both your inconsistency and your insolvency because just a year and a half ago, in February 2020, you voted together with Law 4670/2020 by systemic means, those "Fleeted" and so forth, to deposit Mr. Vroutsi's law. "Greek now has an insurance law, rewarding, flexible, simple and above all harmonised with the decisions of justice," said the former Minister. Today you're canceling. Really, why? What's changed? What are you going to tell the world? What is the fairest, what you have all voted on together - and the hundred and fifty-eight, do not forget - or what Mr Hatzidakis proposes and will you vote on? This is a priest, there's a priest, where is it true? Is it because "it's a lot of money, Mars", as the late Pantelis Gervos told the film "Lolla"? It is really very interesting to find one of you to ask yourself what is the fairest. What you voted on last year or what you're going to vote on today? Both of you can't do it together. All they can do is prove that the king is naked! Promise higher supplementary pensions for young insured persons, rapidly strengthening the sustainability and stability of the insurance system. Really, under what conditions? With wages and tires? With your refusal to incorporate and institutionalize the equal pay for equal work? But it is clearly an attempt to compensate that not only undermines the public social security system and its redistributive character, but restricts social solidarity and abolishes the principle of solidarity between generations. Really, do you know, gentlemen of the government, what does the word solidarity mean? "To bear you, to climb the mountain," says the angerist people, unlike what Mr Mitsotakis says, that we cannot all be equal. I mean, each one of them and on it. His advisor, Mr. Patellis, who said that scientists with doctorate do not have the appetite for work, are therefore lazy, states: "We stop taking young people's money and giving it to the elderly. This plan should serve..." - note - "...not the interests of the citizens, but the reform objectives of the Government and the Recovery Fund". A little further there can invoke Caesar for the elderly. It claims that this system is implemented in too many countries. The truth is, many times, about thirty, applied the capitalist system. You are not saying, however, that most twenty, with the last of Russia canceled it because of high costs of transition and management and returned to the public redistributive system, while in Sweden, which you claim, the employee's participation is 2.5% of its earnings compared with 6.5% you propose. In our country, there is a gap in the support of the old pensioners, so the cost of transition may be as high as 70 billion, according to the National Analogue Authority, with a grim financial impact on public debt. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the government, what if the general economic situation is not favourable and something goes wrong, such as the years of the crisis? What does this mean for the return on capital and pensions of insured persons? The Minister claims that pensioners will not lose their money, but will get the contributions back. This means a reduced subsidiary pension. Other colleagues have also pointed this out. Finally, the risk of capital markets is being transferred to workers, insured persons and pensioners - individual responsibility here too - as the amount of the refund will depend on the life expectancy and a number of other democratic factors and will be significantly less than the supplementary pension for a distribution system. The contributions are ultimately invested - since the word "job" so disturbs you - on the markets, classified with the investment risk that changes and fluctuations in markets at global level. In fact, it's another nephew organized by your prolongation to the resources of the insurance system, with the unselfish deposit to the Bank of Greece, the bank robbery of the Stock Exchange, the structured bonds, the pillaging of the PSI and the continuous mismanagement. Let us remember even the bankruptcy of the "SPA PROMOTION" where thousands of people lost their money. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Those who are going to win are no more than those who manage the TEC. That's why you made sure to get out of the law of all responsibility. To the ruins of the insurance system you delivered in 2015 with EUR 1,18 billion deficit, with a sense of responsibility towards the insured and pensioners, we delivered a single pension fund over three years. Evidently, subsidiary insurance is not the only phenomenon in the exercise of your policy that undermines the future of the majority of citizens. The draft law was preceded by the removal of eight hours, flexible forms of work, unpaid overtime, measures to increase unemployment, and at the same time jeopardise demographic change. With such working conditions, with eighty - three thousand children outside nurseries, your interest in demographics is purely hypocritical. As hypocritical is the legislation on the upgrading of higher education by establishing a minimum basis for introduction. The purpose - it says - is not to enter universities with white glue and low degrees. You have achieved the impossible, unthinkable, to exclude candidates from universities with a rating of 19 and 20 and enrolled in colleges with a white glue. Such excellence! "I will not put my signature," said the Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Syrigos, "to close the School of Physical Education in Komotini", on a timely question whether the School of Physical Education will work in Agios Nikolaos. But he set it wide to close the Architecture School in Xanthi with almost zero invaders. In the remote islands of the Aegean Sea and the schools there were few students left. The number of importers has not been completed at the School of Hope. I don't think you want to close the Armed Forces units in the absence of officers. "It's the beatings," you say. It's always someone else's fault. Mr. Chrysochoidis is responsible for the 1.3 million burnt acres. Mr. Kikilias and Mr. Kontozamanis for the thirteen thousand coronary coffins and the failure of vaccination, since you so much like to compare acres with coffins and numbers. But behind the black clouds is the person of the principal responsible, the one who decides the ministers and directs them on the basis of his neoliberal ideas, which proved his mastership in recent reshaping. We are therefore voting against and we call for the current draft law to be withdrawn, which once again makes social security work, destroys the solidarity of generations and condemns pensioners, the insured and mortgages the future of the new generation and the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too. I would ask you very much to take care of the time, because the political leaders will also speak. Mr. Konstantinos Barkas is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u45	Greece, the whole and the Hellenism, where land is bowed today, for the last time, to Mikis Theodorakis. The world composer welcomes the country he has honoured with his work and his struggles today. Elytis and Richos, Hatzidakis and Gatsos, Neruda and Edith Piaf are waiting for him with Gregory Lambraki and Sotiris Petroula. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the huge political fiasco of reformism, for which the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis, is responsible, the government is in an even worse position. This terrible failure concerns the whole society, the whole of Greece and, unfortunately, it brings it into a more displeased position. So today, with this bill, it is judged, ladies and gentlemen, that the credibility of the government is judged, Mr Ministers, your credibility, because other things you have done. The bill, which the Ministry of Labour today brings under the false title "Security Reformation for New Generation: Introduction of a capitalisation system of predefined contributions to subsidiary insurance, establishment, organisation and operation of an Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund and related provisions" is another attack by the Government of Mr.Mitsotakis on the social majority, it is another attack by the Government of Mr.Mitsotakis on the new generations. This is because, just before the House closed down at the end of July, it tabled this bill that delivers subsidiary insurance to the private interests. It affects the current and future pensioners and the financing of supplementary pensions becomes uncertain and precarious. It affects young persons under thirty-five years of age, because their insurance contributions will be traded in gambling and investment risk without a substantial guarantee for the amount of future supplementary pensions they receive. It is affected by the public interest. With the introduction of the capitalisation system, the contributions of the young insured will no longer cover the current pensions, causing a huge gap in their financial coverage. Mr Tsakloglu has said that this might be between EUR 75 and 78 billion. As Mr Hatzidakis says, they are questioned. He is the same Minister - not Labour - Environment and Energy, who was breaking his clothes, saying there will be no increases in PPC tariffs. He left the minister's seat, and today we're in the front...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u46	Was I when I said that? Was I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u47	She left this place...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u48	You're out of place and time!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u49	...and today, a few months later, we are in front of the 50% increase in PPC tariffs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u50	Two years ago, I said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u51	The question of what the Minister says and the current State Secretary for Social Security is even greater. A year and a half ago the New Democracy Government brought Law 4670 where it was followed by a proportionate study proving the viability of the ECA. The then Minister for Labour, Mr Brutsis, who is not even in Parliament's plenary to speak, said then that he solved the issue of insurance for good, ensuring sustainability - as he said in the Minutes - and adequacy of benefits. He also stressed that he received a report from the European Union confirming the sustainability of the insurance system by 2070. The Government of New Democracy, now you, Mr Ministers, have to answer: Or then Mr Brutsi was lying, or now you are lying, once again, Mr Hatzidakis. Is the studies brought to Parliament in February 2020 by Mr Brutsis or the studies that you now bring to Parliament? The most serious issue, however, is that the sustainability and adequacy of the insurance system that Mr Brutsis referred to at the time, was accompanied by a study entitled ‘Study of adequacy of pensions’, which he had drawn up? Mr. Tsakloglu in his capacity at the time of the professor. Now Mr. Chacloglu, a few months later, says exactly the opposite. The Government, ladies and gentlemen, regrettably gambles with the contributions of the young people insured. The New Democracy and the Government's argument that this is an international and European experience, that countries of the European Union have attempted to capitalise and privatise public compulsory social security is partly right, because they have tried to do so, but the eighteen of these countries have returned to the former system, the redistributive one. That is why all the arguments the government is using are clear. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law promoted by the Government, the risks arising from the management of the contributions of the insured and the reserves, as well as the possible loss of resources, we are faced with the precarious nature of the pensioners, the insured and the taxpayers. As a SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance we are opposed. We call for this draft law to be withdrawn and voted against, which undermines the public distribution, social security system, destroys the solidarity of generations and condemns pensioners and the insured. These trees are not suited to less heaven. These stones are not suited under foreign steps. These faces are only suited to the sun. These hearts are only suited to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr Barcas, for keeping time. Mr. Efstathos Konstantinides from New Democracy is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr. Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, expressing my grief for the contempt of the great composer Mikis Theodorakis, let me add to his personality the consensual policy that, in critical times, exceeded the dividing lines, but also the rigid democrat, the glorious patriot and transparent defender of the Greekity of Macedonia. His memory is eternity! By entering the legislative initiative being discussed, I wonder: Can we, ladies and gentlemen, have a pension insurance bill directly involving young people? And I wonder why in this country we had become accustomed to such legislative changes of almost exclusively interest to pensioners and to those who had matures or who were approaching to guarantee pension rights. And what were the arguments? Increase in the pension criteria, increase in social security contributions and reduction in pensions, since each system was forced by the ever worsening relationship between workers who filled the general money and pensioners who had, of course, been filled with their own insurance contributions. However, the ratio between workers and pensioners has always deteriorated as a result of our country's intense demographic problem, so that the contributions are not sufficient for pensions. After all, undeclared work and tax evasion brought about the problem. So the recipe was known: the pension reduction mentioned above, the increase in contributions and age limits for retirement. It is well known that the recipe, known as the images accompanying it, is a part of the work to fight and complain about the losses that will be suffered. But today's government is changing this image. He respects and guarantees the fight of today's pensioners, but is now directly speaking to young people, those who are currently entering the labour market or who are going through the early stages, the early years of their working life and who cannot be continually, constantly, the underweds of a dead-end logic that wants the few, who are becoming ever less, to pay the many who are becoming ever more. So the government speaks with the young people and signs an honest agreement, which says: Without paying any more, you will fill your own money with your own insurance contributions and this piggyback will not be able to break the state whenever it is difficult to pay pensions. No, he'll be yours, and you'll know how much money he's got in there, and you can open him up when you decide. But the money you raise won't be sitting. They are going to take away both for you and for the Greek economy, because they will be invested and on the one hand they will yield you and on the other they will fuel growth in the country and create new jobs. "And if I lose?" may think of an employee being lured from the raw, cynical lies of counterpopulation. You can't lose. The state guarantees you what you put in the beam plus inflation with an explicit legislative provision. So you can't lose, but you can win. Would you be receiving a supplementary pension of 150 euros, in accordance with the contributions you paid? You can get 220. Would you take 300? You can get 450 euros. Is there, in fact, a clearer, more honest and more beneficial agreement for the new worker, without, at the same time, saying this again, that the current pensioner should be affected by anything? "But an opening will arise from the non-resupply of the existing reserve," the opposition, which speaks about 120 million a year, while the state pays about 15 billion a year for the country's pension system. They are the same who are supposedly cut off for youth and for its future, but when it is to give 120 million to build a viable and efficient pension tool for it, they discover insurmountable obstacles. They are the so-called progressive ones, but they only want stagnation. They are the well-known local socialists who deny models such as the one being discussed, from years to time, tested in advanced states, which fuel the most powerful social systems in the world, as is the case, for example, in the Scandinavian countries. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population, Greater and Elassene, once again you are defending the old. On the other hand, the government is cutting the new one. It's not a surprise. He does what he promised in an election. You know what else he's doing? She assumes responsibility that does not belong to her. We had learned from governments to re-schedule their obligations and yet today pre-scheduled them. It accepts a cost of the coming years to deal with it today, in good time and efficiently, for the benefit of the new generation, which has been filled with great words and small acts, such as your refusal to reform subsidiary insurance, a reform that promises a better future for thousands of young people, and that is why we support it and that is why we are voting in favour of it. At the same time, however, with the insurance reform, another revolution is evolving, and it is about the liquidation of thousands of pensions pending in our funds, a revolution, Mr Minister, which gives fruit, since the comparative data are every month and better, coupled with the innovative regulation on the advance payment of the pension, makes the lives of thousands of our fellow citizens better and strengthens the credibility of the state towards Greek citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Constantinidis. You were accurate in your time. Mrs Kallipe Vetta is called in Step by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to say goodbye to Mickey Theodorakis. Our Mickey, the ecumenical Mickey, was, is and will be a model, an enormous artistic personality, a physiognomy that embraced all people and accepted love, admiration and appreciation of all the ends of the earth. Greece today mourns its loss, but its radiation and the work that condenses its history will always accompany our generation, as in the next generations. I'm very moved and forgive me the personal tone. I've been working with him for many years. Nearly my first artistic steps I met, I was taught and loved the man, the fighter and artist Mickey Theodorakis, who simply honoured me with his trust in interpreting his work and record, but also in concerts abroad and in Greece. Thank you. We'll never forget him! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion of the Ministry of Labour's draft law on the privatisation of subsidiary insurance is taking place in a period of ongoing failures for the government, which, at the same time, is trying to find a way out for the implementation of its strong neoliberal policy. The amnesty and tolerance of Greek society ends. Support for friendly media is not enough. The repatriations are a regime, while the management of the emergency situations is poor, as the people of the country often see in the most tragic way. The remodeling with the historical dimensions of Mr.Mitsotakis' fiasco was another awarded experiment to change the political climate. However, with the full integration of the far right and the few forced moves of Ministers have confirmed the government's limited possibilities of moving for the next day. The failures of the state of service, but also the neoliberal obsessions, are evident in recent times throughout political everyday life. Initially the great destruction on the firefighting front was the legend for the majority of our fellow citizens who found that the king is naked. Incompetence, delays, incomplete means of protection and unanswered questions about the hierarchy and selection of substitutable areas. The result is one: Greece this year lost much of the forest land and its environmental wealth with the sole responsibility of the government. At the same time, the country is surrendering to the inability of the state to promote the vaccination programme and to implement the necessary immunity, as we are very low internationally in the index of fully vaccinated citizens. It seems that the self - admiration and congratulations that the government gives itself do not work. Instead of adopting convincing arguments toward citizens and explaining with scientific and practical examples the effectiveness of vaccines, the government has slipped, delayed, divided and ultimately failed. Finally, last week we had the announcements of the results of admission to universities. The Greek society realised in the most painful way that the government has unresectedly and targeted private structures. At a time when schools are closed, special courses were not being taught, and televised posed major problems, the government with the minimum import base chose to shine the path of social up especially for the children of the lower economic classes. In particular in my region of western Macedonia, the positions of the importers have been reduced to around 50%, while the promises of special treatment due to violent liberation have remained void. Another characteristic case of indifference and apathy for the Regional Unity of Kozani. With today's bill we are confronted with the same context: private interest services, the risk of reserves, the bleeding of funds, the total reversal of solidarity, the redistribution and the defence of the public interest. The bill is a complement to the unfamiliar memory of a recent legislative initiative by the Ministry of Labour that was abolishing the eighth hour and gave employers the right to decide on the life and work of the citizens. In particular, the bill affects current and future pensioners, as the financing of subsidiary workers is precarious. Likewise, it affects young people under thirty-five years of insurance, since their contributions will become the subject of stock exchange gambling, while the public interest also affects the public interest, as it will create a huge gap in the financial coverage of the contributions that may reach or exceed EUR 75 billion, increasing public debt even further. And all that, to give a great deal of profit to the private speculative funds. But let's see more specifically some elements of the bill. The capitalisation system, which will apply from 1-1-2022 and the establishment of the Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund, will use the funds available from employee and employers' contributions from private fund managers. The unprecedented data are as follows: Risk of supplementary pensions and, in particular, disability and widowhood. Uncertainty about the viability and adequacy of the insurance system, risk with the contributions of young insured persons as it has been historically proven to be a risk of collapse of the companies managing the funds and the individual shares of the employees. There will also be significant costs of transition to the new regime, as the budget will be charged after 2030 with an annual cost of EUR 1 billion per year, and after 2040 the cost will be EUR 2.7 billion. A key element in the functioning of the new Management Board of the Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund is the absence of representatives of employees and employers, substantial immunity to members of the Management Board, full immunity of the Director. Finally, there is a direct violation of the Constitution, since according to the decisions of the Constitution. 2287/2015 and 1889/2019 the subsidiary insurance is public and compulsory, comes only from the State and must not be related to business mediation and gambling. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, Mr President, society gradually notes the government's failure, which is reflected in all the quality of the measurements. With today's bill, the feelings of rage, disapproval and rejection will be further intensified. The privatization of subsidiary insurance drugizes social solidarity, public finances and the future of workers, the unemployed and the retired. We call on every citizen to protect his or her conquests and the welfare state and to stand up to the methods of government. It is time to end the neoliberal obsessions that end the future of our new generation and our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too. The president of the parliamentary group of the Change Movement, Mrs. Fofi Gennimata, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Day of mourning today and I would like also from the Step of the House to express my grief, the honor and the respect of Mickey Theodorakis who left today, the irresponsible composer, the Mickey of culture and the struggles. Mickeys Theodorakis created a huge cultural capital for the country, while his ideas and his political struggles that inspired more than a generation are legacy for democracy, freedom, national dignity. With his work he inspired and expressed all the romance he grieves today. He projected the name of Greece through his music and through the authority of his name in every corner of the planet. He contributed to the promotion of Greek poetry by browsing Greek poets whose word reached the end of the world. In difficult times for democracy, his songs were a beacon of hope, never erased for millions of Greeks. We all grew up, we fell in love, we became active citizens, we got hand-handed at gatherings and concerts, we sang, we wept out of excitement under the sounds of his music. He will miss us very much, but his work will be here to inspire us and above all to unite us all to fight for Greece that we dream of, for Greece that he can. Because that's what Mickey himself would want. Mickey of our youth, of our struggles and of our hearts. Ladies and gentlemen, I am changing the climate unfortunately and going to the most unpleasant of our political life. Mr. Mitsotakis with the reshape confessed what he did not admit throughout the previous period: the complete failure of his Government on the two major fronts of the pandemic and the fires. And he also put the seal on the hard right. The presence of Mr. Voridis, Georgiadis and Plori in important positions of Ministries marks it. His so-called head office has fallen. Instead of reform, Karajafiri government. In fiasco, the supposed re-start has evolved. Fiasco, as well as behind the scenes that expose him and shakes people's confidence in the institutions. Instead of rebooting, we've got back and forth. He proved to be not only right-wing, but a clumsy and weak Prime Minister. We are now in Europe on your own responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the government. This, of course, is the result of the recurring, delays and the lack of serious and targeted information campaign and persuasive by the government. Only threats and intimidation! Nothing, and at the level of preparation, to cover the problems that will be encountered in the National Health System by job suspensions. I wonder what is going to happen with the NRP, what will happen with the regional hospitals that we already have mergers of clinics? How are you going to face the increased pressure now that pandemic is back on track? There are now two days' running ministers at the last minute. Unbelievable! But one thing I want to be clear about. Do not think of using the problem as a pretext for handing over to the private interests of the National Health System, because it is artificial, you have created it, you could have taken action all the previous period, you could have made all the necessary recruitments to strengthen the National Health System and convince people of the vaccination. I now come to the opening of schools. Again, they will be opened with parts of twenty-five and thirty students, namely by crowding. Inadmissible! The Ministry of Education's inability to find solutions takes a dangerous dimension. Now I read that the Ministry is oriented, it says, not to inhibit the function of the classes unless the cases reach 50%, i.e. when they're almost all stuck and they've transferred the virus to their families. These are experiments dangerous to the health of children and you should stop them immediately. You should finally take steps to avoid repeating the phenomena of the previous year, which led to huge learning gaps. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis governs with policies serving a party and business elite. It marginalises small and medium-sized enterprises, removes rights from workers, abandons farmers, resorts to ever more authoritarian interventions in democratic rights such as the strike, and of course continues to try to control the media. He's building a Greece for a few. What should we start? The scandalous arrangements at Piraeus Bank and the Hellenic Petroleum? Fire increases in electricity bills by 30%? And this is the result of the government's manipulations that led to unconditional delivery of energy into the great private interests. The working law, a gift to unconscious employers, that undermines collective agreements? The deterioration of the public university in favour of private colleges? It is not by chance that tens of thousands of children are left out of public higher education, without substantial interventions being made in the upgrading of high school and vocational education. Tax measures in favour of business profits, rather than being given for investment and job creation? The arbitrary allocation of resources from the Recovery Fund, which leaves small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in health, social infrastructure, an allocation from which the objective of supporting domestic production and exports is missing? The New Democracy remains a deeply conservative, unrepentant customer party, guided by a centralised structure, which only cares about the prestige of power and support of its chosen ones. Its tool "Maximum S.A.". Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking in this House about another government intervention with highly conservative and ideological content, which attempts to abolish the redistributive system of social security, beginning with supplementary pensions, that is to say, through a system based on solidarity between generations, collective efforts and common good, in a system that is completely dominated by individual interests. The government plan creates a two-speed system. The current system for pensioners and workers over thirty-five years of age is maintained and a system of capitalisation is introduced, the so-called 'embark' for new entrants in the labour market and voluntary for young people up to thirty-five years old. But be careful. There is no convincing answer to the question of how the increasing deficits of the current single subsidiary fund will be covered, as revenue and youth contributions will be reduced over time to the new body, in another coin. The study itself shows that the annual deficit will be EUR 1 billion. EUR 3 billion after 2030, EUR 3 billion in the form of a global loan for the financing of small and medium-scale projects (SMEs) in the form of a global loan for the financing of small and medium-scale projects (SMEs) in the form of a global loan for the financing of small and medium-scale projects (SMEs) in the form of a global loan for the financing of small and medium-scale projects (SMEs) in the form of a global loan for the financing of small and medium-scale projects (SMEs). EUR 75 billion after 2040 and the total cost of the transition for this dangerous project will be EUR 78 billion. The euro. The government thinks that it speaks to naives when it supposedly assures us that the state will cover such deficits ten times as much as we have today. In practice it is transferring responsibility to a future government, which will lead to a new very large reduction in supplementary pensions following that imposed by the Katrugalou Act. That's where the bill leads. This is the approach that, when its model is completed, the six hundred and fifty thousand pensioners of the old system who cannot receive the supplementary pension they expect, since the EIF will no longer have any further contributions. And I'm talking about people who today are thirty-five, forty-forty-five, fifty-year-olds who pay and pay contributions. No one can tell us about the fund stock cover. This is only enough for the first-year deficits. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is supposedly cut off for the new generations and says that this intervention will favour young people. But even these government claims are true? I answer directly no. This is another deception this time of the new generation, because the government's allegations are based on the prediction that for many decades everything will go ideally to the economy, that it will be looting upwards as well as investment, and of course we will have, he says, contributions. Who guarantees that? Who guarantees the results of the Exchange? And there will also be economic problems. And let us not forget that today when we speak of the public debt in Greece it has taken dangerous proportions and the deficits reach banned figures. You hide the problems under the carpet because of the temporary lifting of the European Stability Pact and support from the European Central Bank. The only security in the bill for young people is a guaranteed assistance, which will be 25% lower than today. But then, of course, the ministers who propose these will not be here to apologize. It is clear, however, that today you are playing a communication game against young people. Ladies and gentlemen, will you ask us reasonably, well the old people and the now insured lose, the young people unknown, although what will they gain? Then who benefit from government regulations? So I say: first of all, the fund management companies and those who expect profits from the new resources available for investment in the capital market, and secondly, private insurance, where existing workers will be forced to resort to supplementary pensions. It is indeed challenging that in order for the government to protect its chosen ones from the responsibilities of any negative results from gambling the money of the new generation, it is essential to legislate on their impunity. I also hope that we do not listen again to the false fact that this model is supposedly applied to other European countries. No country has just a system of individual accounts and even a mandatory system. Even in Sweden invoked by the New Democracy, the system has strong distributive elements and solidarity of the generations. But is it the issue that we are discussing today the only or the main problem of our insurance system? Let's see what's real. Today more than two hundred and eighty thousand pensioners are waiting for many months to get their pension and tens of thousands more, the ones that are entitled after decades of working life and the payment of contributions. It's a nightmare number that the government's inability leads to its continued growth. 35% increased the New Republic's governance deficits by a total of 35%. It's a state unreliable to its citizens. Today and after the Katorugalo - Brutsi vote, young pensioners receive reduced pensions. In fact, the payroll of the main pensions has been greatly reduced, creating an insurance incentive for workers. Despite the particularly unfavourable forecasts, the government takes no substantial measures to tackle demographic, which threatens the future of social security. In fact, there are no substantial interventions in this area, nor are there any resources from the Recovery Fund. And after the abolition of the ESS from the SYRIZA there are too many pensioners who receive a main pension of even EUR 200. It is unacceptable for a European society. For all of this, no voice or hearing, no complete indifference from the Government of the New Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, the government plan is dangerous to current workers without actually offering young people. That is why we are voting against. But we never choose immorality. It is time for immediate and bold changes to support the public social security system. What do we suggest? First and foremost support for the first pillar of insurance for the transition to an ECAI that operates transparently, efficiently and gives an incentive to insurance through strengthening the pension compensation part. The current state of the ECA is a deterrent to social security, much more for young people. Secondly, the development of the second pillar of insurance, with the establishment and development of the professional funds, without any age segregation. This was the real reform, which started in 2010 by the PASOK government, but it did not follow on. Experience from the first four professional funds set up and operating under employers' agreements is a positive legacy for follow-up. The professional funds have the potential to make use of their own reserves, without State intervention, and to ensure the highest returns for insured and retired persons. Thirdly, establishing minimum and guaranteed income for pensioners by reintroducing a new form of CSCE, what the PASOK Government established in 1996 and finally abolished the SYRIZA memorandum. Fourth, brave measures for demographic now, with financial support for new couples who have children, but also a substantial subsidy for having a home or rent. Fifthly, incentives to introduce young people into the labour market. For every 1,000 euros that a company pays for the recruitment of additional full-time workers to be taxed for 1,500 euros. These are our proposals and, of course, they can only be implemented by the progressive democratic party, with a strong movement of change that will act after exhaustive public debate the real reform, the new change that it needs in our insurance system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. And Mrs Maria Konnaka is called to Step by the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. They also kept tears and sensitivities for young workers in this bill. From the point of view - innocent and blameless - we hear of the crime committed against the new generation, the great losers of the insurance system, the barrel without the bottom in which they put their contributions. And if we assume that this is the case, who really cut the bottom off of this barrel? Because guilty of these challenges for young workers are not their parents and their grandparents who have built the funds from the labors of all these years of work, as you say more or less without shame as a conclusion to your thinking. The guilty are those who, according to pretexts, put a hand in the funds' reserves to finance capitalist development, already in the 1950s, the great gamble of the PASOK government that threw the labors of those insured in the stock bubble, the next gamble of the supplementary insurance reserves by New Democracy in the bonds of the Greek State, the New Democracy and the PASOK again, who put the big hand with the big PSI haircut and wrote the sand owed to them to give it back to the capital and the recapitalisations of the banks. And you are talking today with a great deal of courage about the sustainability of the funds! And what do you propose as a medicine? Rather, in a logical homeopathic treatment, a new gamble of fund reserves again at the altar of capitalist development. You turn new insured people into investors who, instead of a right to social security, will buy investment products to acquire - you say - trust in the insurance system, since they themselves will be responsible for their individual money, as if they were themselves to make a shot at their savings. The keys and content of the bill will be in the hands of the insurance companies, the gamblers of the Stock Exchange and the various market experts, who will in fact enjoy in white immunity for their management. Young workers will buy risks for their old age, small, medium or large, and if their investments follow the path of so many famous and non-rules that have left to the ace workers throughout the world, you will return to them - you say - even the level of their contributions, but they will also get them out of their pockets, from where they fill their tax money, since this means a simple translation of the guarantee of the cover from the state budget, if they do not trip and then of course also to familiar budget cuts. And how does this confidence with which you are all talking about the biggest pensions the workers will get forty years after that? On what stage of the economy did you foresee with these investment performances, ignoring not only the potential of the capitalist crises that have collapsed overnight and other such ambitious forecasts, but also the enormous competition between companies that make uncertain, if not misguided, estimates? And if we need to complete the working year, how much real calendar years will today's worker have to work for the two-month and three-month contracts, part-time work, great unemployment gaps to fill out these forty years of good retirement, with the majority of workers even starting work around thirty? And where will the young workers currently sentenced to wages of 200, 300, at best 400 euros be saved from? These calculations build on the theories for active ageing of the population, which describe as a need for various European reports. Did you not present the same logic as a modern and progressive one, as an opportunity for the worker to return to the ten-hour work, the tire hours, the unpaid overtime, which also have a role in the situation of the insurance funds? But where is the logic of extending working life, increasing working time, at the time of the fourth industrial revolution, the robotic revolution, at the time, that is, that huge scientific achievements, that is, the achievements of human work itself allow and impose a reduction in working hours at the same time as an increase in wages? And should we really be discussing this problem in the 21st century, with this level of development of productive forces, if it can provide a decent living for generations of people who have spent more than three times and four decades of working life, even though they constitute one third of the total population, such as with which precariousness they show various estimates? Much more so that the invoicing of the demographic, which you are being charged with as a pretext for the absolution of the social security system, in other words, to get rid of the hard state, from its responsibility towards today's workers and retired people, the problem of demographics has not fallen out of the sky. But you're not making it for the real leaders, for the real causes, who insecurity new couples, for the creation of their family. On the contrary, even for a different culture of the new generation, we have heard some say in the discussions in the committees. Is it or is it not genuinely responsible for continuous labour wandering, for great unemployment, for unscrupulous wages and labour rights? How will new couples also meet in exhaustive hours, in life tires, to have children and family, when their motherhood, family and care is converted, when a race is needed and with obstacles to a place at a nursery station or rather for care services to which workers are forced to leave their children? So here is why the causes of infertility cannot be sought out of the system itself and the capitalist way of production that condemns new couples to insecurity and elastic life, measures as the cost of supporting their family, health and welfare benefits, transforms their needs into an individual assumption. As a cost, it also faces social security. That is why it is a timely common strategy for all the bourgeois governments to relieve the state and the capital of their responsibility. That is why you are enlisting the tricks, such as that of the individual pigeon, either in its unfamiliar or in its most tangible form today, which is to wonder whether the workers of EUR 200 and 300 of the constant work wandering will fill it in all the years of their working lives. The workers both young people and older people have nothing to expect from gaming the whole life-long labors, making a gift for business group investment projects. They need wages and pensions that are decent, from a high level of health and welfare benefits, what modern scientific capabilities allow and impose modern popular needs. This struggle for their lives must be given by the workers, and there it is certain that they have nothing to risk losing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too. The eighth cycle will open the way for Themistoklis Himaras from New Democracy, and then I will give the floor to the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas. Mr. Himara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to express my grief for the loss of the inspiration for overcoming the dividing lines, the global Greek, the Mickey Theodorakis. His memory is eternity. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, most of our fellow citizens since the introduction of the economy into the sigh of the memorials, when they refer to insurance, are making two disappointing thoughts: firstly, unacceptable delays in the process of awarding pensions, which is touching on impunity and now severely affecting the credibility of our political system, and secondly, a lack of confidence in the new generation, especially as to whether, when and how. If they get retired, when they do this and what will be the final height. In any case, particularly after the horizontal reductions in pensions resulting from the bankruptcy of the economy and the conclusion of the memoranda, I think that perhaps no young people today think they will receive the pension they are entitled to. In this first issue of the delays in pension awards, the Government, despite any delays, adopted, legislated and implemented private sector involvement procedures in order to strengthen the state mechanism. It is worth mentioning - and especially to you, Minister - that this is a proposal, which I have put forward since the first month that I have been elected a Member, because I myself have worked as a supporter for technical assistance in the process of absorbing the resources of the NRP and I have seen very closely that if this were not the case, if we did not use the people of the market we would not be able to absorb European resources. That is why I certainly welcome this effort, and I am sure it will succeed. The second disappointing thought, that of the lack of credibility of young people, particularly, about whether or not and how much, is answered by our current legislation. And if we want to be honest, judging by the result and the present situation, legislative amendments in recent years have not been taken into account effectively, a component in the difficult equation: demographic. We have two data: we live longer and we have less birth. Therefore, a number of pensioners are constantly growing. At the same time and - secondly, given - the adjudicating rate on average wages is expected to fall from 16%, which is currently at 12% in 2040 and 9.5% in 2060. It is therefore obvious that the need for brave changes that will prevent future pension reductions by making supplementary insurance sustainable. And to prevent reactions and misunderstandings, the reduction I am referring to will not be the result of cuts. The important innovations for Greece provide for a new reform of the six chapters of this bill in detail in the recommendations of the good fellow Member and friend Messinia, Mr Mandas. An individual account, individual money, from which the worker's future pension will be paid, shall be created. The insurance contributions paid and the return on investment corresponding to its contributions will also be recorded there. Every citizen will have access to contributions and returns by electronic means, as is simply the case with our bank account. A new Public Auxiliary Insurance Fund is established. Investment portfolios are created which will at the choice of the insured persons be directed and the funds of their insurance portfolios will be invested. The new supplementary insurance scheme does not affect current pensioners, current insured persons over thirty-five years and current insured persons under thirty-five years who will choose to remain in the existing supplementary insurance scheme. I come to the benefits of the reform. Firstly, we ensure the sustainability of our insurance system. Additional insurance remains public and compulsory as part of social security, as defined in the Constitution. Secondly, the consequences of demographic decline are being addressed and supplementary pensions are being adequacy. The decent living of pensioners and intergenerational solidarity is guaranteed. Young people's confidence in the social security system is increasing, partly dealing with black work. Fourthly, it is clear that at all times the worker controls his account. Ladies and gentlemen, unlike the attempts to distort the opposition in recent years, the draft law proposed does not affect the payment and amount of existing supplementary pensions. It ensures the contributions of the insured persons since, regardless of any return, the insured person will receive, at least, the subsidiary corresponding to the contributions paid. It maintains the public nature of subsidiary insurance by notifying each insured person of the possibility of making better use of his money in the standards of all advanced European countries, while maintaining the level of contributions for the subsidiary scheme for employees of 6% divided into 3% for the employee and 3% for the employer. Ladies and gentlemen, there is only one way to go for our country of progress, development and development. This is a road that has been shown for many years by the countries of the European north. Since July 2019, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has shown with actions that our only option is to develop, to invest, to increase productivity and, of course, to create new jobs. We want a country which opens up prospects for its citizens, instead of closing doors and sharing poverty benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, too. The President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitris Koutsoubas, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u63	With deep emotion and an unstoppable applause, we bid farewell to Mikis Theodorakis, a fighter, creator, protagonist of a new fighting art in music. Burning from the passion of offering to the people, Mickey managed to fit into his grand work all the time of the 20th-century popular struggle in our country. Besides, part of this place has been itself. Mickey liked to walk on the big streets under the posters and there his music will continue to sound, inspire, discipline. With the music of Mikis Theodorakis we go, until the bells of social liberation are marked, they will be with us and when the dreams are red. And as a very dear friend and friend of Mickey reminded me, I would like to tell you that when he died in 1857 in the English-dominated then Corfu, Dionysius Solomos, the Ionian Parliament interrupted its work. Of course you should not even think about it, which you should anyway withdraw. Ladies and gentlemen, you are bringing about a draft law that privatises subsidiary insurance and abolishes socio-security rights, which have been won by hard class struggles. The symbolism of the resolution of this bill in circumstances where the people are tested with the tragic consequences of the fourth wave of pandemic and while still counting the wounds of the destructive fires of summer, has its own special meaning, because it confirms your Government's will to go ahead with its anti-population policy, to implement the capital strategy in conditions where our people are suffering. This is precisely what is reflected in the reshaping that you announced, which is not, of course, a reboot, as we have said, but only an acceleration of your anti-popular work. Only to see who remains but who are being recruited to complete the dangerous missions at the expense of the people understands. And that is the case for all ministries, for both work and for education and for health, where, on the pretext of vaccination, you prepare the new privatised NS. As for those who have disembarked the government vehicle, it is alleged that this is why you are responsible for the destructive fires and other omissions, we say it again: your responsibilities are criminal and do not concern individual errors and shortcomings, but the total absence of an integrated anti-nuclear protection plan. What about the craving of Apostolakis? What he understands, and the most ignorant, is that, regardless of whether Apostolakis or not he became a Minister of the New Democracy, here is evidence of the possibility that officials, in this particular case, are able to take out one suit and put the other, that is, move from one urban party to another, because in the big, strategic and critical issues, there is between you full convergence and agreement, despite the individual differences. As Aleka Papariga said yesterday, "a cigarette road is that". But the Greek people are taking you off and from now on they won't give it to you, because one thief, two thieves, three and his bad day. You have brought another insurance bill with which you are immediately giving EUR 8 billion to insurance corporations. And you do this at the same time, when you do not take any measures to protect the health of the people, no measures to support the public health system, to open schools, universities, to protect health and safety in public transport, to all places of work. Because, as you cynically confess, these are costs. On the contrary, you are actively working to increase the clientele and the profits of large groups of private health, as is your intention to do for large insurance companies with this bill. While our people have not yet recovered from the great, the catastrophic, fires, you refuse to proceed to a immediate restoration of the firemen affected with compensation for 100% of the damage. Refugee to proceed with the necessary flooding to avoid mourning lives, since we have already entered in the autumn. You deny the brave state funding to support the state mechanism with means and staff because the logic of cost-benefit prevails. Relief to individual responsibility the protection of life, the health of the people, not only to hide your own criminal responsibilities, but because this direction becomes a vehicle to justify and pass great overthrows, as you did with the law - abortion that you voted in June, along with SYRIZA and the Change Movement, proclaiming in supposedly an individual option to abolish the eighth. Thus, with the draft law on the privatisation of subsidiary insurance, implementing the reactionary law of Katrugalou, you introduce individual money, that is, pension and social benefits will depend exclusively on the risk, investment options, of each insured person separately. The state won't guarantee anything. In fact, for the problems of the social security system, like your predecessors, you are putting the blame on the working people, making him solely responsible for the overturns you are invoking, abolishing the main and subsidiary insurance, as left over from the redistributive nature, support and solidarity of the generations. It is typical of the example given by the Association of Insurance Workers that a young worker who will be insured with the new system should, in his thirty-five years or forty-five years, suffer an accident at work, with hunger wages, who dominate the vast majority of these ages, receive an additional pension, just 7 euros. Yes, seven euros! That is the future you call for. Only as a pretext can the title, which you are giving to today's bill: "Security Reform for New Generation" seeking, quickly, to convince you that you are interested in youth, that these arrangements leave the insurance system for the already insured. Young people and young people, however, with your policy you condemn to learning, to uncertainties, to constant skill hunts, establishing the theme bank, for example, in schools, by strengthening class barriers to education, leaving out of university schools forty thousand students and students with the tragic, but at the same time ridiculous, argument by your Minister "no young people in universities". And all this without taking any protection measures about how schools and schools open this year. In fact, it is a common confession that the new school year begins on worse terms than the previous two years. But the reactionary arrangements that you make in the field of education, by taking the spit from previous governments, are not done in the air. They seek, at the same time, to form the model of the new worker, the worker without collective, working, trade union, insurance, rights, a worker who will work whenever the employer wants and as much as the employer wants, without fixed working hours. He will be doomed to living his family with hunger wages, at best just above the level of the lower wages you have established under the Rough Brutsi - Ahchioglou Law. As for the fact that nothing will change to today's pensioners, you're still lying. Because the cost of switching to the new system, which you cannot approach yourself, that is, the hole that will be created in the reserves of the current system as it will gradually decrease and eventually stop the payment of contributions, will objectively lead to new pension cuts, since the budgetary cuts, the bloody surpluses of the state budget, will ultimately make such a choice compulsory. The attack, which you are currently launching on insurance and pension rights, is in full correspondence with the attack on wages, collective agreements, change to the worst in industrial relations. The above hours at work, the tenths, the twelve hours you have brought, the legal unpaid work, beyond the obvious occupational risk, also affects insurance contributions. With one thread overturns in industrial relations and working time with the insurance system. We're telling you that your dirty propaganda, which baptizes the reduction of insurance contributions and the new loss of insurance funds as a net increase in nominal wages, will not pass. You're reducing the wage earner as a whole and that's the only truth. The return, now introduced throughout the entire range of insurance, has political content. This is referred to as the basic shield in justice and equality between insured persons, and it is the most persuasive element in the dissolution of social security. This is because recompense is being paid to benefits and in the name of equality, the greatest inequality is created. This is how everyone is beaten in the logic of strengthening the weakest. Your goal and the string of all reinsurance laws lead to the individualization of social security. A worker should give whatever he or she may have, and on that basis he will receive. If it does not, it will receive a lump sum of benefits, to the limits of tolerance, a pension at EUR 380 and this again if it has twenty years of work. He'll pay insurance contributions, but he won't know if he's finally getting a pension, what's gonna be her height, as this will be the result of stock market gambling. But he will not know when he will be retired, since the capital strategy is to create incentives for work and after the retirement age has been reached. It is characteristic that today they report various staff to Greece and the European Union for work up to seventy-four years. The problem of ageing the population of Europe is presented, by criminalising the increase in life expectancy and by moving the finger on workers for the sustainability of social security systems. But no matter how much ink you spill, no matter how dust you try to drop, the political and class line you have carved cannot be hidden. It has not been a long time since the report by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs of the European Union on the basis of the ageing population of the continent. Report that New Democracy and the Change Movement supported by voting in favour of it. SYRIZA supported her with white in order not to be exposed. The report, which provides for the extension of working life, the withdrawal of the State from any responsibility for the elderly, the development of profitable activities for the sale of goods and services that the elderly need. All this, of course, in the context of so-called new opportunities for profits in the sectors of the so-called silver economy and the care economy. There, along with your allies in the European Union, you characterise without shame as a voluntary option to extend working life. In fact, in addition to parttime work and low-risk investment products, which you have brought to employment relations and social security, you are taking an even more reactionary step, even more provocative. You are now introducing low-risk part-time for the elderly, i.e. man-made work. Your single plan in the European Union cannot be concealed for a new increase in retirement age limits at seventy and seventy-two years, adapted to what is called a life expectancy. The current insurance bill, which you bring, is obviously not a new proposal. Takes the baton from reactionary changes imposed by previous governments and yours in the New Democracy and SYRIZA and PASOK. It follows, literally, overturns which are based on the new architecture of the Katrugalu and which is condensed hereafter: workers are forced to pay endless contributions either from their wages or from taxes. But in the end they will not know the benefits they will have and whether they will have. And because a lot of people come out on the tiles these days, considering that we have a goldfish memory, to speak clearly. It was the application of the Katrugalos law, which fertilised the ground to move forward in our country too, and the anti-grassroots strategy of the European Union for the three pillars, i.e. fixed positions of the current government. It was the law that deepened the escalation of all the reinsurance laws of previous years. This law and the same tools as the European Union's own pension cuts have been permanently introduced. That was the law, which was actually the laundry for reinsurance over the years of the crisis. Let hypocrisy finally stop somewhere. SYRIZA's arguments that the insurance system has become sustainable, so the New Democracy Government alone is to make gifts to insurance companies' cords is not telling all the truth, because this social security system came from the pension towel by 30%, since the abolition of the 13th and 14th pensions, from the drastic reduction in social benefits, thus creating a problem for the viability of their own pensioners and their families. As far as the Change Movement is concerned, it is an experienced and tested force in the implementation of anti-grass measures and in particular in insurance. The most emblematic and wildly reinsurance laws of the past have the seal of PASOK. They leaped through the womb of the Yannitzi bill, which, of course, the trade unions' struggle then rejected as a whole. They have paternity in many laws such as Repa, Loverdou, Kutruman, which are a basis for today's overthrows. So none of the parties that have ruled over recent years is innocent of blood. They've put a seal on fundamental overthrows, and that's what our people can't forget. And it couldn't be otherwise because those who believe that there can be a completely different good, good, better, philosophical management of the capitalist system in which it reigns here that we call it "your death, my life" are far-fetched or simply mocking themselves, living in their delusional delusional, but other well-wanted people who ask themselves to move forward to fundamental changes in this system and reach deep the knife as the bone. Ladies and gentlemen, in the new draft law you have given, the overall privatisation plan of insurance is unfolding, so that social rights can be converted into an investment and an individual risk. Obviously, the Minister makes a fat mistake when he says that an insured person can have control over his money, when returns are related to a number of cash indices, such as the progress of the economy, the profitability of the monopoly groups, budgetary stability and, of course, the stock market games themselves. The references to the draft law on the capitalisation system, in terms that would also be jealous of yapids, the Golden Boys on stock exchanges, as they say, investment risk, accumulation reserves - you said - the descriptions around the Securities Committee and the individual investment characteristics of the subsidiary capitalisation fund, prove that in your mind you do not have any social security institution, but a financial investment tool under this farm system. After all, this is reflected by the administrative bodies of the new fund, which refers to a purely banking organisation and an economic institution. A new financial instrument is being set up for the next few decades, focusing on strengthening business groups in the name of capitalist development. The only thing that concerns you now is how the mechanism for calculating supplementary pensions, the individual buttons, the corresponding radars of the mortality tables, the investment profiles of insured and discount rates will also be extended to the backward part of the main pension. In short, under this draft law, subsidiary insurance is converted into an individual case of any insured person who has his own account and beyond account managers will also be an investor. Oh, greatness! In other words, the fund will operate in full capitalisation by placing the contributions of the funds insured and the shares. The insured will be able to choose any investor who wants and at the same time what category of stock exchange products they want to gamble on their contributions. Workers should study the market, such as the gambler the betting coupon, and bet on stock exchange options. But really, what you're selling now? Do you think we've forgotten how the statements of thousands of people in the stock exchange bubbles collapsed as a paper tower? How were rights and property held by “SPA” broken down? How did a colossus like "THOMAS COOK" go bankrupt and shocked thousands of people all over the world? And don't tell us we're in danger. We're telling the truth. The only danger is not the scenarios that turn social security into gambling and risk. You tell us that pensions are guaranteed and that there is no gambling. Really, my lighters, how can the words ‘guarantee’ and ‘risk’ be synonymous? Who doesn't understand that there's no bigger lie than that? You yourself are talking about investments and choices of low, medium, high risk, conservative, balanced and aggressive investment profile. So what's the risk? What does the insured person risk? And if everything is well burned, why did you immediately run to regulate the endless of all those who manage the sweat and labor of the working people? So that if something goes wrong, nobody can hurt the "kids". Really, how realistic is the method of the chronological projections you're doing for the insurance with an eighty-year horizon next? Who lives until then? Who dies, that is. But what do you care? The cosmic's money you guys want to gamble. In what real world are you talking about safeguarding money, when, in 30 years' time, some ten insurance laws have been legislated, which change every time to the worst pension terms? How much is the guarantee given today by a government for a pension that is supposed to be granted for forty years? To answer you, he has absolutely nothing. Guaranteed, what you were saying again, wasn't it the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions? Aren't you guaranteed the pensions and social benefits lost by pensioners and, indeed, guaranteed by the Constitution itself? Who do you think you're mocking again? At the same time, predators are looking forward to private insurance for their new profits. And you're with them. You talk philosophically about pension increases, presenting arbitrary numbers, as banking and insurance groups, which treat workers as customers. You are not saying, however, that the so-called high yields of the capitalisation systems or private insurance companies presuppose a high contribution of the insured, but also a gamble on large-risk products, on stockup bubbles, which, when they go through, lead to social impoverishment of insured persons and pensioners. You're making this a garrison. The examples are, moreover, too many and recorded, whether we are talking about "SOPIS" in Greece or "ENRON" abroad. Insurance under any of the operators, operating under the market laws, is purely profitable, with the sole criterion of maximising the profits of the few. Based on this, he is, of course, suffering from unreliability. It's just "heat in the wind" in front of the risk of bankruptcy and collapse. Here is a value to mention more recently your published data. About one billion euros is the debt account, which has been inherited to the public sector dozens of insurance companies that have been closed or revoked in recent years. The largest debt, close to 300 million, belongs to the EGNATIA, a company that closed in 2007, followed by the “SPA” with around 170 million, INTERNATIONAL NATIONALITY, ASTRA SAFALISTICS, the “GENERAL UN” and so on. In order not to do so, forty-two insurance companies carried a'standard' and sent the world out of hand. Just two months ago, after a communication from the Bank of Greece, we read that the "CITY INSURANCE" from Romania, with an annex to our country, was found involved in a number of tax and accounting offences and fraud involving virtual accounts, deposits, which are not loans, written in the snow. This brought domino, as it makes sense, in the annex of the company, which operates in Greece and which operates under another legal regime, which is of little importance, however, for the hundreds of eighty thousand automobile holders who stay in insurance in the air. We all understand, of course, that when insurance leaves the wheels and chasms and comes to work and sweat, it has another special weight. Your objective is, therefore, the full discharge of the employer from the obligation, which was legally set to return through contributions to the social security system some of the stolen gains, unpaid work, i.e. the profit-making employee. These contributions, whether you call them workers or employers, were and continue to be the single wage. We mention this because, for the same time as you are carrying out ongoing reinsurance laws invoking and the sustainability of the funds, you are constantly reducing the insurance contributions and, above all, the employers. Having regard to the fact that the State is gradually withdrawn from the financing of social security will eventually be raised as a matter of urgency for today's pensions. The financial gap or the cost of transition, as you say, is estimated to be between EUR 48 and 78 billion. Although we are not going to cost measures, we are dealing with social security on completely other terms. We believe that sooner or later, the burden of measures will be relocated to the workers' backs, either by new cuts or by new taxes. The JRC is aimed at the workers and especially the younger ages, which belong to the working and popular layers. The power of organized mass struggle away from mediators and saviors of the same government changes can block designs, distract wins, even on a field where the correlation remains negative, of course changing at the same time and struggling to change this negative correlation. The demographic problem is not solved either with wishes or with your crocodile tears. We are struggling at the moment to have the right for young people to create their family freely and without hindrances, to have children, not to think for more than thirty years of getting out of the home because of the financial difficulties, to have access to knowledge, without inhibiting the class barriers you constantly raise, not to be exposed to pandemics or, of course, to professional risk, having a broad framework for protecting their health, also the right to rest, sport, holidays. Such sides cover the insurance system as a whole, which you tear track. The JRC is fighting for public universal compulsory social security, for the construction of a single system, including pension rights, health prevention and rehabilitation services, social benefits and services. For the JRC the problem of social security is of course a political one, especially classic one, as it is the field, which appears to be more visible to the limits of the exploitive system, which is in sepsis and in complete contrast to the fulfilment of modern folk needs. Social security is of the opinion that it should guarantee workers decent pensions, human care and benefits, that it meets the current needs of the pensioner and the worker, that there are no exclusions and conditions for the integration of workers and the unemployed into the insurance system. No human being is present for any reason outside the protective grid. Strengthening the financing of social security must be borne by the State and by employers, particularly the large capital, the large ones, together with increasing the taxation of large enterprises and abolishing their tax exemptions and other prerogatives. At the same time, they should return what they grabbed in any way, as for us there are no forgotten ones. We don't have any illusions. The question of insurance, as well as wages, working time, working relationships, cannot be solved within this farm system. Their solution is not dependent on a social democratic or neoliberal plan or a combination of these two, but requires quite a different design. Requires another central scientific design. It requires, in other words, an economy that, in the face of the interests of the major business groups, will put up modern, constantly expanding people's needs. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] This, of course, does not mean that we are sitting and waiting as observers or that we are referring the solutions to a vague general future. Just because we do not underestimate today's needs, we act decisively in today, we fight within the organized people's movement, linking our overall proposal to the relief of the working people from the consequences of these anti-government policies. This today's struggle, these daily struggles, however, are part of the overall JRC's proposal for a different project - road to evolution and development of Greek society, which is based on the notion that the protagonist and producer of wealth is the working people. Based on this consistent and unique position, in our view, realistic from the point of view of the people's interests, we are opposed to the Additional Insurance Act, which is part of the wider distortions as a whole in social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too. You will allow me to read out the statement that I made on the occasion of the Mickey Theodorakis: "With deep sorrow and excitement we were informed this morning of the Mickey Theodorakis, after a mediocre day, offering and recognition of life. A leading melodic of Greekity in a unique way brought us in contact with all its expressions "with exquisite musical exquisite, with voices", which is why today the universe of the world of the Greek with reverence bows in its fascinating path and in its unprecedented and universal cultural and not only its contribution, while at the same time our precious coexistence begins with its invaluable memory. Mikis Theodorakis is, and rightly so, the most famous Greek of our times. Composer, author, politician, was identified with our country and people as much as anyone, projected Greece as no one could and enchanted Greece as no one could. The Greekness lost its melodies, but not his melodies, which will continue to fascinate and inspire. As for his public and political offer, his passion for homeland, democracy and freedom, and they will continue to inspire, having formed an extremely fertile print that forged it exemplarily for more than half a century! Heavy condolences personally and on behalf of the Greek Parliament in his family." The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, is now calling for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Today, we deplore with deep emotion a great Greek, a global radiant personality, the great Mikis Theodorakis, who in his work gave another meaning to the lives of millions of people in our country and outside of it, in their struggle for social justice, freedom, democracy. The only certainty these hours is that we say goodbye to him with the certainty that he leaves behind a stigma indelible to the soul of our people, the identity of our country, but also to the cultural heritage of the entire world. Ladies and gentlemen, today the House is called upon to vote on a bill, which represents an excitement to the present and future generations of Greeks and Greeks. It is called upon to ratify another deeply anti-social act of a government and a Prime Minister, who at these difficult times are giving the impression that they do not know where they stand and where they are. The only thing they know about doing with great commitment is implementing a political plan to serve great interests, to the detriment of the public interest, to the detriment of the social majority. In all of this, you will allow me to begin my intervention today in question. Is it possible for Mr Mitsotakis, who, once again, is absent and will not defend a bill, which runs counter to the public interest, to ultimately be so measurable, so arrogant, so incapable of realising the need for these hours to stop behaving like being directed at fools, to ignorant citizens who do not understand? A week ago, last Wednesday, from this Step, after a catastrophic ten days, after the catastrophic fires that devastated Evia and other parts of our country, Elia, Attica, which burned up a total of over a million thousand acres of forest, the Prime Minister was here telling us that everything was doing well, not even much that everything was perfect. And not only that, but he attacked us on top. He was asking us to tell him where the mistake was, while at the same time he was next to him, where Mr Hatzidakis is sitting today, and I quote all those who hypocritically supported them last Wednesday while he had already decided to replace them, and he was struggling with whom he would replace them. He had them next to him and hypocritically supported them and praised their work and did not admit a single mistake of theirs and theirs. And three days later, he proceeded to this, which will be recorded in modern political history as the biggest fiasco, which has ever fallen to the Prime Minister of the country, in a reshaping parody, proving that he is a weak and inappropriate for the difficult hours we spend as Prime Minister. The first to be replaced in this reshape were the chief ministers of the supposedly great successes of the government two years now: the great success in the management of pandemic, the doctrine of "class and security", Political Protection and Tourism. And what did he do? He attempted with cheap communication tricks and tricks, not to create a framework of understanding to deal with the climate crisis, but to create impressions of perverting his opponents' policies and the well-being of executives in disgraceful terms of footballing politics. And I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, who does he think is Mr Mitsotakis? What syndrome of majesty and irresponsibleness holds him with the impression that he could behave in this way? Didn't he know who he was addressing? Didn't he know who he was addressing? Didn't he know that he's addressing not just an old SYRIZA government official, but also a today's associate and adviser? And what's the impression? That my partner wouldn't let me know, my advisor today about the proposal that happened to him, or that once Mr. Mitsotakis touches him, he's transformed, enchanted and runs behind him to follow him? Is this Mr Mitsotakis' so-called understanding of what 'policy of understanding' means? Since Monday, before I went up to this, I was aware of his intentions about the climate crisis and the fires. I didn't think it would reach the ultimate limit of curse and self-determination. For a week, he didn't raise the phone either, rather than put five minutes before announcing his close associate to inform us - not me, my partner - of trying to frame a minister in his government. But Mr Mitsotakis never believed in the need for political agreement. Mr. Mitsotakis, if he wanted political understanding, he would have shown it two years ago that he is ruling, since before we led to this catastrophic course of his pandemic we said, "Come and find a design and find these people who can serve him." And then he told us 'no'. If he wanted political understanding he would not come to this step by not recognising any mistakes, not accepting his criminal responsibility, because for two years he has been in the drawer the conclusion of the Goldenmer proposal to deal with forest fires. If he wanted political understanding he would not throw out in the basket of the useless the proposal for a law, which we tabled for the creation of a single authority - not an independent authority as he says - Civil Protection in modern terms and, of course, would not get out of here the Step the worst, but unfortunately true, himself once again with the repetition of a tragedy that took place three years ago in Matti, when he told us - take note, at the time he attempted and proposed the Ministerialisation of Apostolakis - that the government to which Apostolakis was visiting at that time and sent hundreds of people to Matti. That's what the Step said from this one. This is not just a political fraud. We are talking here about a clear case of political amoralism, about a behaviour of deep insult to Greek citizens, not to us, about an act of political atrocity. Instead of inviting in consultation, he was planning calls for distances, a attitude by which the name "Mitotakis", after all, has become historically synonymous. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So we make this clear to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Right Government, who are now becoming an extreme right-wing government after the last remodeling, we make it clear to you: what you knew, forget them. The attempt to perpetuate the democratic and progressive faction has finally expired with the political humiliation and dismissal of Mr Chrysochoidis and the resounding refusal of Vangelis Apostolakis! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] From now on, unfortunately or happily, you will show yourself out what you really are: the government of the first-class ministers of Mr Karatzafiris, the People's Orthodox Alarm, the government of Mr Vorides, Mr Georgiadis, Mr Ploiros. And you will bathe Mr. Plearis to the end! You have chosen, in the most critical situation, to the position of the Minister of Health, which is facing the pandemic crisis, not just a far-right, extreme right that has nothing to do with the subject, but also a man who has not previously been involved - I would not mention what he was saying in the summer of the past - now, in his statements, he considers that it is not the government's job to convince the world to be vaccinated, a man who, in his racist hatred, was coming out and calling for deportations of positive women from Africa. And he's a Minister of Health now! Rejoice him! This man was appointed the head of Mr. Mitsotakis at a time when the pandemic flies again, who in a week open our schools again with twenty-five and thirty students per department, just as they closed, without any change for the second consecutive year, with doctors and nurses on their limits. They are massaged by intensive care units, as happened in the Rethymnon Hospital, because they do not withstand exhausting hours, this uninterrupted contribution of some, but without limits, because you have not made sure that you strengthen with one permanent the National Health System and at the same time lead to employment inhibitors - instead of persuading health workers to be vaccinated - by creating a new "black hole" in the already unstable National Health System. And against all of this, a Prime Minister who is as if he is come out of comics, from another planet, is in Thessaloniki and says, "Everything under control, don't worry, in health is all under control." You are a government on a run-off and Mr. Mitsotakis is a Prime Minister in vertigo, out of reality once more! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] He is a prime minister in a vertigo, who, with all his statement and every move, shows how far he is from the agony and life of every single citizen of this country, how far he is from him, who has lost his home to the one who lost his job, how far away he is from the one who lost his property, because he burned up to this family who does not have to pay up to 50% of the electricity you have done, Mr Hatzidakis, how far he is from him, who loses his business in Attica to him, who is afraid to send his child to school, from the one you flew out of the university to the one who works ten hours for the minimum wage you have raised as much as it costs half a coup. Not all of you are interested in their needs and concerns, Mr Hatzidakis, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority. Mostly first of all, Mr. Mitsotakis doesn't give a damn about them. He doesn't rule for them. He doesn't rule for those who burned their place. It governs for those who want to do business on burnt-ups. It does not rule for the forty thousand students and their families who have stayed out of higher education. It governs for those who want to sell diplomas of a penny and look for customers on the disguises of the dreams of these thousands of young people. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It doesn't rule for the citizens and businessmen, who tremble every time their phone rings, it's not a call from the bank for their debts. It governs for those who want to take the houses and properties of the Greeks with a vehicle the cut and sewn to the measures of bankruptcy, which you have voted on. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Finally, it does not rule for young people and young people in this country, but for an elite, who wants to speculate on even the labor and labor of life of the most educated and hard-working generations of this country. These generations you've put on the mark for two years now. Today's insurance bill is another proof of what I said before. The change in insurance, which you are attempting, in fact, involves, as I have said before, the attack on these generations, because you have called - listen - your plan of 'insurance reform for the new generation' and, indeed, between your arguments - you have chosen to refer to the demographic problem. Since demographic ageing threatens the viability of insurance, what is your proposal? To play crowns - letters the future of young people, their insurance prospects. You have abolished the eighth hour, you have dismantled the Labour Inspectorate, you have canceled the power of collective bargaining, you have condemned twenty-six and thirty-six to work unpaid overtime for hunger wages and now you come to claim that playing the labors of all their working life in the field of investment risk is an act of restoring demographic ageing. Very intelligently, he told you before, as I was listening, the Secretary General of the Communist Party that you are mocking the backbones, the toilers, and you tell them that they are becoming investors. But what problem do you come to solve? We live in a country which, despite the hard budgetary adjustment and the heavy cost which the citizens have paid in '16 finally managed to have a sustainable insurance system with all its weaknesses, but which has been sustainable for the first time in the past twenty years. In 1918 it was also confirmed by the European Commission that Greece had developed a economically viable and socially effective social security system, which is fully faced with the consequences of the high risk of demographic ageing. But not just the European Commission. Even you, your predecessor, Mr Brutsis and your next-door minister, but the Minister said as a professor, but he said, as a State Secretary, just a year and a half ago, when your government brought you to the House a proportionate study that proved viability, and then Minister Brutsi stressed that he also received approval from the European Union, which confirmed the viability of the insurance sector by 2070. So who's lying? We were lying in '16, the European Commission in '18, Brutsi when he brought the proportional study a year and a half ago, or are you lying now, Mr Hatzidakis? We need an answer to that. Are the studies carried out in the House in February 1920, or are the studies carried out by you today correct? Ultimately who's right, Mr. Chacloglu? Professor Chuckloe, who was saying other things a year and a half ago, or Secretary Tsakloglu, where else says today, who disproves himself? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I think you know the answer. It's not sustainability. The problem is your ideological fanaticism, but also the interests you want to serve. In another vital issue you show how unrealistic you are, how obsessed you are in your ideas, but also how firmly committed to serving specific interests. You're not ruling for the people. That is why you are ruling, when the world is all trying to recover from two deep crises, the economic and health that has shocked it, while a third crisis, climate, threatens life itself on the planet, as at least we have known it so far. At a time when societies and states are looking for answers to limit the consequences of this disaster, which has led to the extreme neoliberal trip, which, since the 1990s, has been a one-way and regularity in the Western world, the time when, on the territory of the pandemic, the social state and its structures are being strengthened everywhere in Europe and in the United States of America, the time that attempts are being made to improve working conditions in a number of countries to preserve social cohesion, which is threatened by plans for reduced working hours without wage reduction, as in Spain, but also in the field of insurance, while from the thirty countries that have previously been in one way or another, in the capitalist systems, the eighteenths from the middle of the 2000s, i.e. before the crisis hits them, have returned to the mental system, whether total or a mixed, intellectual capitalisation system, as it is, as it is, but in Sweden and you are recurring at this time when you are recurring, your necessessentsents, which are simply because of the lasting dangers of all too. The world is heading on a safer path, and you choose to send us a nail again, as you did with the bankruptcy of the country, which you actually left in 2009. You are once again choosing to jeopardise not only the security of the citizens, but also the sustainability of the state funds. The attempted change in insurance does not only pose potential risks but also certain damages and, in fact, according to your calculations - I imagine moderate - these damages range from 56 to over 70 billion. What does that mean? A 'black hole', which will widen the already burdened public debt of the country, which, although we have taken care of in extremely difficult conditions and have achieved an agreement on its settlement, which relates to an agreement with the institutions, which is, in fact, the creation of an open low-payments corridor for a decade in terms of public debt, but is extremely high today. In particular, after the pandemic, it is close to 200% of GDP. So you write to the oldest of your shoes one of the most important structural problems in the Greek economy today and you create a new black hole. We in adverse circumstances have honoured the sacrifices of our citizens and have managed to make insurance and debt sustainable, so that you and in just two years' time will again put a new mine in the public finances of our country. But you are telling us, Mr Hatzidakis, Mr Tsakloglu, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, not to be sad, because you have a way to cover this black hole. How exactly? With the annual payment of 0.5% of GDP, i.e. about 1 billion, promised to the institutions, when at first you submitted your plan and turned it back to you. What's that 0.5%, so we all understand? It is the amount that our government had committed and institutionalised to support pensioners annually by granting as a permanent of the thirteenth pension. That's the amount! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is precisely this amount that, when you were elected and despite your election promises that you will not abolish the permanent thirteenth pension in order to keep the prerogatives of Mr Brutsis, when he finally abolished it a few months after your election, he had come and said: 'Don't be sad, this figure, about 1 billion, 0.5% of GDP, will be directed as a social dividend to the low-wage pensioners'. One billion a year, which would go to pensioners, will now go to cover a hole in an absolutely inappropriate and multi-hazardous reform. What about everyone's worst? This will not be enough, it will be far shorter to cover costs and, therefore, sooner or later, the cost will be called once again on the person liable to pay for it with his contributions or the taxpayer with his taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, the change in insurance, together with the anti-reform, which you again signed up to - is, it seems, always meant to do the dirty work, Mr Hatzidakis - in the bill on work, on eight-hour abolition, the substantial abolition, for the introduction of unpaid overtime, but also the changes in education with more than 40 000 young people outside the higher education institutions, these three leading, emblematic changes that you have produced, what do they prove? They prove who Mr. Mitsotakis governs. That proves. The rejection of thousands of pupils, with the aim, supposedly, of raising the level at the universities, was only one objective: to strengthen private colleges. The risk of the stability of the insurance system is assumed, with a view to preventing demographic ageing, only one objective: to strengthen large private investment funds. The abolition of fundamental labour rights, supposedly with a view to modernising the working framework, has only one objective: to increase the profitability of large business groups. You are ruling for them, and I think that there is no doubt that Mr Mitsotakis has no interest, not in the social majority, but not even in those who have elected him. It does not rule for the people, it does not even concern him the broad concept of public interest, it concerns him, and it serves, under any circumstances, the interests of a few but chosen. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I shall end with this - as much as Mr Mitsotakis is trying to do in the next few months to hide this obvious truth, this obvious truth, which proves to be abundantly from these three flagrant changes that you are trying to make, as much as he attempts to masturbate it, to make it with the help of his propaganda's well-prepared machine, will have no chance of avoiding fatality. His fall will be rapid, it will be steep, and the impact will be bumped. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] As far as we are concerned, for this abortion you have made a commitment today. He's gonna get ripped out. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It will be dismantled on the first day of taking responsibility for the administration of the site by a new progressive government, aiming to bring the place back to a safe path, to restore anticipation and security for the future. And the insurance and bankruptcy law and the slaughter of the importers and the unpaid corporations, all of this will be ripped out from the first few days. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] They'll be ripped off, but be careful, they won't be forgotten. It will always be a reminder that once a government of arrogants at difficult and painful times for society made the fear and pain of the Greek people an opportunity to enrich a few, its friends, chosen and donors. This will eventually be your only blasphemy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u66	The Minister has asked for the floor, Mr Kostis Hatzidakis, in order to answer the question on behalf of the Government. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have lost a great Greek today. We lost an internationally renowned music composer, a man who stood out on his way both to politics and to music. We lost the great Mikis Theodorakis, a Greek who made us, along with the other great music composer of his generation, Mano Hatzidakis, to get up a little higher. So we all end up together in reverential memory, and I would like to remind the House of one of the last, perhaps his last public position, the one he had done in Kallimarro in the summer of 2019, when he was giving a concert in honor, his health raised doubts as to whether he could be present, but he attended and made a very brief greeting. What did Mickey Theodorakis say to this greeting? He said: "Let me say that I do not consider the concert to be another tribute to me, but as an invitation to what I believed most in my life, in the unity of the Greeks. I sincerely do - says Mickey Theodorakis - "How there are still Greeks who have not understood that at the top of our history, the Greeks were united, as was the fact that the national division was responsible for all the sufferings that our people experienced. And that is not the view of a romantic artist, but the pure historical truth". [[Applause from the New Democracy Wing]] That's what Mickey Theodorakis said. It would be very useful if Mr. Tsipras were here to listen to him and compare Mickey Theodorakis' speech with his own position beforehand, which was an epic of dividing and arrogance. The lesson of division and arrogantness was the placement of Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Tsipras, on this day, when the Greeks unitedly honour the memory of Mikis Theodorakis, came to speak with the style that all Greeks and all Greek women saw and attack the way he attacked the Prime Minister. Even when? When he knows that the Prime Minister is currently at the meeting of the Ministerial Council! It also meets, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministerial Council and Mr Tsipras has come to make the hero safe. I will answer and answer all points. Mr. Tsipras, the Chief of Officer's Representation, said at the beginning of his position: "Mr. Mitsotakis a few days ago came to this Step and claimed that he did not make any mistakes in addressing the fires." He could say that if he was Tsipras. Because Mr. Tsipras, as long as he was in power, admitted no mistake, with the same arrogantness, indeed. He ruled with the well-known results, both in substance and in the July 2019 elections. Mr. Mitsotakis obviously did not join your doctrine, that everything was wrong. Because that is what you were saying and that is what you are still saying. But whatever mistakes have been made it has asked for the first time that the Greek people are sorry, which is not generally common to Prime Ministers in Greece. And secondly, he did, does, and will make all the necessary moves to correct any problems. You of the SYRIZA, and Mr Tsipras personally, here, had asked for another approach to civil protection a few days ago and for structures that reflect consensus. The Prime Minister immediately moved in this direction. And what did you do? You reacted like the one who throws a rifle into the air and then he's surprised by his rifle, he's terrified of his rifle. The Prime Minister has just moved in this direction and has proposed that one of your ministers should be placed in this position, instead of satisfying you for moving in your own spirit, you have reacted biliarly. And then you ask for an explanation. But it's obvious what this conversation we're having. You have nothing to do with the concept of consensus. You are nourished by the bile attacks and the doctrine of Mr. Tsipras 'One of them is over or over'. That's what you thought in 2015, that's what you believe now. This is what the Greek people see, and that is why they have you here, not only in the elections but also after the elections, in all the polls, despite the public's style and despite all the approach they show, if they do not monitor, that you are some fifteen points in front of you in the polls. So you do not mean consensus, you are inferior to the word 'consensual'. But the New Democracy, because it has an alliance with the citizens and because it has made a government that has already overcome the narrow party limits of the New Democracy, will continue in this direction, precisely strengthening this alliance with the citizens and speaking in layers that go beyond the narrow party boundaries of the great liberal party. You, once again, use words playing. You play with words. Now you played with the word "consensus" and after you left it in the context of another political theatrical performance. You have transformed your party from any classic party to a political theatrical performance and even a bad taste. Mr. Tsipras attacked Mr. Ploris, who has taken two days of Minister and who, with all the leadership of the Ministry of Health, will in practice be judged on what he does, as we all consider to be, every day, by the Greek citizens. But when did he attack Mr. Plearis? When the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paulakis, had attended a WTO meeting two hours ago, which reacted to the attempt to get doctors and nurses in hospitals. So when SYRIZA's Deputy Minister for Health closes indirectly but clearly not to the anti-invaders, do not ask for the change! Don't ask for the change. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And Mr. Tsipras stepped up his attack on the government and the Prime Minister by repeating the phrase "You are far from the world". Yes, sir. We are far from the world, and the world first voted for us in 2019, when it condemned Mr. Tsipras. We are far from the world, which has reduced the taxes of the world repeatedly since 2019. We are far from the world, who have supported society with EUR 40 billion in the last year and a half with the measures for the coronary. We are far from the world, and we have reduced unemployment in extremely difficult conditions by two percentage points and the official data came out yesterday. We are far from the world, which, in these extremely difficult circumstances, gave, as the Prime Minister said, an even symbolic increase in the minimum wage. We are far from the world, which we have essentially strengthened the country's migration policy, and all residents know about it, and the urban centres and our islands. We are far from the world and from the middle of the Greek, which we have repeatedly given proud answers to Turkey over the last two years. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are far from the world from the Ministry of Labour, which we have increased by the last law on the protection of the work of parental leave. We are far away from the world, which we have taken steps to reconcile personal and working life. We are far from the world from the Ministry of Labour, which has reduced the insurance contributions, which you have increased. We're far from the world, we've increased the cover of the workers, and we've equated them with the rest of the employees. We are far from the world and from the employees, who are introducing the digital working card, which is their best shield against the arbitrary nature of the employer. And you are close to the world, who first of all - and I start with it, because for me it is a deep moral issue - you have fooled and mocked the world facets every day, because you are champions in lying and deceiving citizens. You, the other ones, said and did the whole opposite. You're close to the world, letting immigrants melt and you didn't know where they were. You were close to the world, who increased taxes thirty times, and a reduction you made in the first few years, and it was a reduction in casinos. If you don't remember, I'll remind you and please especially about it, if any of you can disprove you. You were close to the world to leave us one million and sixty thousand outstanding insurance cases at the Ministry of Labour. [[Noise - Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Yes, yes, they are tabled in the Minutes of the House. Come with evidence and not SYRIZA reason to speak. You were close to the world by the time we handed over PPC to a collapse and arrived in a record time we rescued the company without increasing the power. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now you come two years after the rescue of PPC, and while the price of its share has been multiplied, everyone recognizes that PPC is a success story, invoke the international increase in gas prices and the international increase in carbon dioxide prices, paid on international exchanges by all European electricity companies to connect Mitsotakis and Hatzidakis to international increases in electricity prices. Severe Opposition! The next stage is to go closer to the party "I give plots", "I grant debts", etc., because with this logic you come and speak, an officer's opposition party in Greece. You underestimate yourself. Before replying to the issues that concern the bill, I cannot say anything that has affected me. I think we should be mindful even if the Chief of Staff is coming and doing a theatrical political performance, as I said before, because there are some who may be more serious about what the Chief of Staff is saying than we are in the New Democracy. Mr. Tsipras said Hatzidakis was supposed to be dirty business. Listen, I am proud of my route and of what I have in the European Parliament and what I have done as a member of the New Democracy and what I have done as a Member of Parliament and what I have done as Minister. Yes, I have indeed been identified with difficult reforms, for Olympics, for OSE, for regional airports, for the OECD toolbox you accused of, and then lastly for the rescue of PPC. I am proud of this route and today to do it again, I would do the same, because they were reforms that were useful to the Greek people. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now if you're hostages of your dogmas and you don't see where all Europe goes, it's not my fault. However, what I have seen once again with this position is what I have noted from the outset, a Tsipra who was a teacher of division and arrogantness. Read, however, in this crescendo of splitting a couple of polls to see - work tools are -, do you decide to connect with Greek citizens? Now I would like to say a few things about the bill itself, even though I was placed in detail yesterday, and even though Mr Tsipras essentially reiterated Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos' position. I do not know whether what I am saying is to the honour of Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulos or not, but, in any case, that is what she did. So Mr Tsipras first adopted what Mr Koutsoubas said earlier. "You want to make the new people investors." Here's what we want to do. We want to make them Europeans and we want them to be numbered today, who just put their money in a bucket to get the pensioners to pension, show them the confidence that we need to show them and be able to make individual accounts to know where their money is, so that they can control their pensions. If you want the new people, it's just a matter of yours. If you and the JRC are inspired by the present system, it is your own account. I'm glad to meet you. Young people do not inspire for the very simple reason that they have seen all the cuts that have been made over the last few years from the system you have praised, they have seen especially in supplementary pensions what has been done, for example in the Ionian People's Fund, which eight hundred workers are trying to maintain seventeen, eighteen thousand pensioners. It can't, of course. They've seen what's happened with the LPETE at the National Bank. They've seen all these problems. If that is your vision, enjoy your vision, but it is not Europe and this approach is not common sense. On the contrary, we have made our choices, and we are going with what the advanced European countries follow. Let's go with the young people. We're opening up to the new generation. We give the opportunity to have an individual coin, where everyone will have their own individual account, to see the evolution of their investments and at the same time, we give a guarantee on the part of the state that and in the wrong way to go to the markets, you will still get your pension plus inflation. Mr Tsipras continued, of course, as the speakers of his party have done, and he said that the model that Mr Tsakloglu and I are bringing to Parliament today is being abandoned. I said yesterday, but it seems 'to the deaf' the door'. Well, let's see. How he's abandoned. Here, then, this painting. Please disprove him. What is the international experience of the percentage of workers covered by capitalist pension schemes like what we are bringing - who is abandoning this system during Mr Tsipras, the well-known philanthropist Greek politician? In Sweden 100% of workers are involved in such schemes, and even compulsory. In Finland 90% and the rest on a voluntary basis. In the Netherlands, it is close to 90%. In Denmark, it is more than 80%. In Israel, Australia, Great Britain, etc. Here's the painting. Come and question him. It is the system that we introduce and is supposed to be abandoned. This applies to all advanced European countries. Again, Mr Tsipras referred to some countries in Eastern Europe and Africa, which have actually gone and privatised their insurance systems, but we do not care, because we do not do that. It's something else. We are talking about the model of Sweden, the Netherlands, Denmark. If you have any information, I would ask the last speaker to come and question what I say and what Mr Chacloglu says. I have another table here - and I showed him yesterday - that shows the assets of the pension funds as a percentage of GDP. Again in these countries we have a very high share of the capitalist system. You see at the end of the table, after Turkey, Greece is the last hole in the junction that does not participate throughout this international trend. The question is what we want. Shall we stay here? Your vision is to stay last of the last? Well, it's not ours, because unlike yours, we're really the progressive party, a progressive government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At the same time you must give another answer, all the parties you are against this bill. Why are you conquering this bill that introduces the capitalist system, when in Greece by the Reppa Act and then there are the professional funds that are still working, they are still growing and that are based on the capitalist system. In other words, when PASOK does it, and when Mr Tsipras goes on and leaves it to work as Prime Minister, he is fine, but when this system wants to be extended by Mitsotakis, Hadjidakis, Tsakloglou, uh, it is a sin that is great and we must be punished. If this is not the definition of political hypocrisy from your side, what is it? I said about the guarantees that exist for young people, that they will be retired, so gambling is only in SYRIZA's mind. I said yesterday that there is a guarantee for the current members that their pension will not be affected. And I come to the notorious issue of the financial void. The bill accompanies three studies of one of DPRK's, one of IOBE's and one of the National Analogue Authority's studies. I also explained yesterday and did not repeat it in detail: the deficit - which Tsipras said, 0.5%, obviously confused by his advisers - will be 120 million a year. Which budget? In a budget that gives 15 billion a year, every year, to support the budget for the insurance system. So we come so that our young people can get more pensions and from 43% to 68%, and we give EUR 120 million more a year. The 15 billion gives 120 million. So in the evening, all Greeks will have the pleasure of seeing the opposition parties vote against the increase in youth pensions. Because that's what you're gonna do! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It blinds you to your dogmatism and you do not see that in this way, if anything, you lose voters. But, as I said yesterday, you're our sponsors. Your dogmatism and blindness actually lead you to make political gifts to our government. Thank you very much. We're grateful. And I answer something else. Why was the insurance system on a sustainable basis with the Brutsi report, and why now are we supposed to say? We're not saying any more. The Brutsi Act applies, we voted for him and we support him. What we are saying is that according to what we had said in the election, before the Brutsi Act was passed and it was our main election commitment, we must intervene in the supplementary pension system so that we do not put all our eggs in the same basket. You have the national budget-based pension. You have the main pension related to how growth goes, what developments in demographics as well. Finally, you have the supplementary pension that we say is not related to the same risk that the main pension relates to and go to a system that has been adopted in the other European countries. If, then, Mr. Tsipras thought that he put us in a difficult way, he mistakes mercifully. The answer was very simple. So, ladies and gentlemen, I close my position here by really wondering what your model is. I understand that from the JRC. It was the Soviet Union, the Soviet Union - I am very sorry, perhaps the JRC - has remained Cuba to the extent that it is left, North Korea, etc. What's the pattern of the rest? Your template is LEPETE, your model is the Ionian People, your standard is the cuts that have been made in all recent years in the insurance funds? Is that the progressive perception in Greece? And you even come indignant and teach us lessons. Thank you very much for the lessons. We thank you more for your attitude, however, because, as I said before, you are losing votes with what you are doing and say, and we are gaining a great deal on young people. But the votes are the least. Most of it is to do our patriotic duty. We, therefore, because there have been various errors over time in the insurance system in Greece, we are not prepared to make any other mistakes. So we do not want to follow any populist paths or adopt our own political patents. We see what is happening in the advanced countries of Europe and we follow it. You have your doctrines. Go on with your doctrines! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, I want to make a statement for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u69	Well, you have the floor for a minute, and then Mr. Skourletis has asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u70	I oppose what Mr Hatzidakis said about North Korea. We're giving it to you. We don't have a standard. What the Soviet Union has done, capitalism can never do in the social field. However, we should deal with something more serious. As the party's Secretary General Dimitris Koutsoubas mentioned in the death of Solomos, that the entire Ionian Parliament was immediately closed, we consider that this should also be done in this House. In the end, if you do not accept this, the big words are good, we propose tomorrow that we do not have a meeting. When you have a national mourning three days, and even preached by the government itself, it is not possible tomorrow and as many days as the House lasts to meet. We are making this proposal and let the other parties be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u71	There's also a conception, though, that you respect memory because it's not to work and it's not to work. I mean, I mean, you might be able to honor the memory...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u72	Don't ruin it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u73	I'm just saying the other point. I have a right to another point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, the other point is that the Ionian Parliament has been poorly closed when Dionysian Solomon died! That's what you're saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u75	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Skourletis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the JRC's proposal is a proposal which should be considered by the Bureau of Parliament and, obviously, by the Government and the Conference of Presidents. What, however, really, Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, I think it was not too clever on your part is to choose to comment on the position of the Chief of Officerial Response with a reference to certain things Mr Theodorakis said. It was completely inappropriate. Perhaps it shows a weakness, because in the face of the catalytic arguments, the specific arguments, the degradation of your policy at all levels, you had nothing more to say than the attacks of empty content and well-known clichés. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Mr. Hatzidakis and gentlemen of the government, you are the last to be able to give up SYRIZA for division. Do you know why? Why is it still fresh in the memory of the Greek citizens when you embraced all the far right-wing members of the Greek Parliament who were going down against the responsible national policy of the government of SYRIZA on the issue of northern Macedonia, when you did not say a word about those who attacked with molotovs and stones to the elected MPs of the Greek Parliament, those who closed the eye, only now that you have been in a difficult position since you said one, two, ten times how beneficial this agreement is for our country, now you are trying to escape and play the trillion, and you are teaching the daisy about when you will bring these agreements concerning northern Macedonia to be ratified by this House. Let go, then, of the splitting. So let us get together on the issues of consensus. Where can there be, what is consensus, what is conciliation? We have proposed to you, from the beginning of the pandemic, a consensus to the self-evident: common persons on the issues of the health crisis. You didn't accept it. And not only did you not accept it, but you did nothing. I would remind you, therefore, that the staff employed in public hospitals a year and a half after the pandemic have not been paid better have not been increased, many are still under contracts. And now that, with regard to the necessary vaccination support, a measure is announced without seeing what impact this will have on the operation, we risk blocking the system not from the pressure of the disease, but internally, from the resignations of the health workers themselves. And I'm telling you, of course, everyone needs to be vaccinated, we said it and yesterday we've said it since the first day, but here's where you failed this design. Come on, you didn't make it. Do you remember those 70% - 75% amounts that were the target you had set right after Easter? Why did you fail? Are you here to ask for an opinion? Have you adopted a serious documented argument on the field of the specific social groups that were hesitant? I am not talking about the negligents, about their own reasons, about all of them anyway, and you know that well. I'm talking about those who ask questions, about those who were born questions on the basis of the contradictory statements made by your government. Weren't you the ones who told St. Demetrius in Thessalonica that it doesn't fit? And it became a feast all over the place and there was a little Bergamo in Thessaloniki last November. You and the Prime Minister didn't say at the beginning of the summer that everything will be fine and now you see that we're surrounded by the new pandemic wave? So this is all what they're gonna do? They must support and consolidate the people's confidence in a government which still has expenditure on public health established, even though Europe itself has recognised the need not to count on budget deficits and budgetary figures? When all the other countries invest in health and you talk about PPP? So there can be no consensus on this, there can be no consensus on a draft dogmatic, neoliberal, which wants to sell out the natural energy networks, the networks of the TEDO. Mr. Chacloglu, would you like revenue for the subsidiary funds? The 49% that the government intends to do, Mr Hatzidakis, before and now Mr Skrekas, to privatise by giving it to foreign funds, i.e. also to funds managed by foreign insured persons, give it to the fund to have about 7% of the specific yield for thirty, for forty, for fifty years. Why don't you do that? You have a natural monopoly. You don't want it. Because you are indeed serving particular private interests. You're waterbirds, you have a class mark. Well, there can be obviously no consensus with this policy. There can be no consensus with these alchemys you have made in the energy market and you have escaped and manipulated at the moment and we have oligopolistic situations. And I told you yesterday that tariffs are haunting every day in your mind. You did so, Mr Hatzidakis, because you had specific studies of how to make the target model. You didn't follow them. You have liberated the well-intentioned limits that should exist. It is not the public asset of the current that any stock exchange product, because it is based on households, growth, business. That's all you ignore. So we cannot consent to these issues. We cannot consent to what you are doing in the workplace and I wonder that Mr Koutsoubas - I imagine by mistake, before - said that we voted together on the bill. I imagine that you, at least, know that not only did we not vote for it together, but we believe that all that you are working on, especially for young workers, is tragic. You have therefore managed and combined your name with the abolition of eight hours, with the unpaid overtime, with the shrinking without precedent of collective agreements. It disturbs you everything that has been mentioned in the concept of 'collectiveness', in the collective interest, in the public interest, in the public goods. You want to see them all through the laws of the unconscious market. That's dogmatism. Didn't you break up the APRC? You, Mr Hatzidakis, and the Prime Minister who spoke in the name of the agreement on the climate crisis, have not actually removed the control content from the same environmental inspection of the Ministry of Energy and the Environment? Didn't you introduce for new investments, for individuals - the individuals who will be chosen by the operator and the investor - who will assess the licensing conditions and the environmental license? And are you talking about an environment, with a law that really allows the concept of protection to be left empty in NATURA? You who, in the crucial field of RES, which is a one-way road, so to respond to the climate crisis issues, have not literally done a mess? Aren't there any applications that are currently overtaken by 12 times the ability of the Greek energy network and the needs of the country? What are you doing? Licence exchange? Do you redeem with the licenses? That's what you know and you do it. So that's why you're a special-purpose minister. So there can be no consensus on this. No consensus in the scandal with Piraeus, where you literally grabbed the money of Greek taxpayers who entered for the recapitalisation of the bank and refused the State to exercise its rights, to have the shares that they deserve and to participate in a possible increase in equity. So, is that in the interest? Is that the concept of public interest, as you understand it? No, it's not. It's in the interest of the few, the ones you serve. In this respect, then, the field does not have a common vision. As I honestly did not understand Mr Tsakloglu yesterday who spoke about the invisible positive effects of development that will come through the leverage of the new fund. But, they won't be visible, we won't see them, we won't be able to assess them. But at some point they will bear higher pensions. And how to be when they are invested in stock exchange products from other countries, when these funds are taxed on the basis of experience, in an entirely peculiar manner, nor will you have any anticipated tax revenue. That is why you are preparing with this policy the terms of a new financial derailment. In any case, it is not pensions, filthy pensions, small pensions in Greece that have led us to bankruptcy. In bankruptcy we were led by the vicious bipartisanism, led us to the decision on the Olympic Games. It led us to the fact that the public works were five times more costly than in the rest of Europe. And you come and tell us to imitate the good practices of other European countries, making the trick identified the professional funds - we told you - with the question of subsidiary insurance. So you know how they went to the first packages of the NSRF, if they went to real investment, if they helped to bring about convergence of the Greek economy, or the heterogeneous people ate them. So these under whose signature do they have? SYRIZA's 3% and 5%? History is a big thing and it teaches us. He sends messages. Well, we can't forget that. So this is for us to get to grips with. It seems that Mr Brutsi has missed your election policy, which is why you may have taken him out of this position. Another policy has been implemented by Mr Tsakloglu through his signature said that the insurance system makes the main and subsidiary insurance viable by 2070. Now, obviously, you have returned to neoliberal orthodomy. Ladies and gentlemen - and I shall end, Mr President - you have spoken about vision, about what we want. Well, I will say to you in very simple terms: we want fewer inequalities, we want less exploitation, we want more democracy, we want more rights, we want more decent jobs, we want to liberate the creativity of young people. We do not believe in a society, as you imagine, 'for the few.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u77	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u78	Yes, Mr. President. I just want the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u79	Look, let me explain to you. You know that, I guess. Time you have as Parliamentary Representative. You spoke in your protology yesterday twelve minutes and a few seconds. So at least one more quarter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u80	I will only need two minutes, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u81	I'm sorry, Mr. Bukkaro, so we can put them in a row. After Mr Bukouros, Mr Tsakloglu will take the floor, who obviously wants to intervene on what has been said. A warm request from the Bureau, after Mr Tsakloglu, that we continue with the list of speakers. More than two hours have passed with the parties' leaders, the Minister and the parliamentarians. There are another thirty two Members who are waiting so long. Hot request, after Mr Tsakloglu has gone on with the list of speakers. I am addressing all the groups. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, today we have followed the Chief of Officerial Response, with a divisive reason - the truth - to come to the Greek Parliament and to commit to abolishing all the bills of the New Democracy, the insurance, the labour, the Treasury bill, the Ministry of Education bills and what a democratically elected government has passed. It is trying to convince us that it is oriented towards understanding and, indeed, at institutional level. While the Chief of Officership told us he would abolish them in a day or two, he did not clarify to us whether he would abolish them with a law and an article. That's all he didn't explain. I would also like to remind colleagues of the fact that at work they have voted for some seventy articles from a total of forty. That's the reality. So, today, both the Chief and the Parliamentary representative have attempted to tell us that they are identified with wide strata of Greek society and that Mitsotakis is ruling for the elites. It is those who match the wide layers of society that have doubled the minimum taxable income to tax family incomes of EUR 8 000 per year. These broad strata are identified by the former SYRIZA government and by SYRIZA policy. By taxing the lower layers of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u83	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u84	These have been recorded. You've received the minimum tax free at 11 thousand and delivered it to 8 thousand. You will remember the Chakatou commitments that have been trampled and imprisoned. As a result, little importance is attached to what one says in public, when credibility has been weighed and measured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Chacloglu has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u86	Why five minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u87	It's not his prology. Mr. Chacloglu spoke yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u88	So many times they invoked him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u89	You will not negotiate, Mr Colleague, Mr Tsakloglu's time. The Bureau shall consult it. You'll have five minutes with tolerance. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I listened with caution to the rituals of the Opposition, both the general and the specific bills, which had the speech of the Chief of Officerial Response. I want to respond to a series of objections that have been heard. As a matter of fact, and above all because the President asks me to be brief, the answers will be telegraphic. I shall not go into any arguments which I feel are of no serious relevance to you for a long time. The first and most important of these is the privatization. This new fund, the TECA, which we are building, is a legal person governed by public law. The large part of the management will obviously take place within the fund itself, because it must also invest in markets beyond Greek. For risk differentiation it may also give them to others, but to these others it gives them a certain period of time, with specific terms and competitive procedures. Telling me that this process is a privatisation process is like telling me that AHEPA Hospital in my home country, Thessaloniki, is a private hospital because it uses private companies. The second: Joshua. Aren't we a little embarrassed? We are the country that has the lowest percentage of investment in the European Union. Until some time ago, our investments were lower than our depreciation. We were eating capital, we weren't creating new ones. Do we take out a mechanism that will enhance this thing, the growth fuel and tell me about gambling? That's the Urgeal speech. Brutsi Law studies, because you referred to this personally. To be quite clear about two things. From the Kakrugalos law and after the long term our system is viable. Why am I saying long-term? A country which gives 10% of its GDP to support its insurance system is considered viable? It's obviously not. Even Europeans do not say that. They say it's long. Why is it sustainable long-term? Because we have very large cuts in pensions made by the Katorugalou law. That's what made the system's viability and that's what stays just like that. The second thing we have is the adequacy of pensions. She was my study. I sign every specific word that I had in this study. However, the study did not refer to supplementary pensions. It was all over the pension system. And from the whole pension system is a small part of supplementary pensions. For supplementary pensions, this is what I told you yesterday. It's exactly the way it happens and the study of the National Accounting Authority that you invoke. Just because the system is an idea of capitalisation and zero deficits are pulling down our demographics, the rates of replacement. And then in the Brutsi study and in this supplementary pension, it goes down as a percentage of the average wage. That is what we want to change and that is what will give the future pensions to future pensioners. That's what we said. The third point: countries which have returned from capitalisation to the distribution system. The eighteen countries to which you refer, you have said so too, are Latin America, Africa and the former Eastern countries. There are four categories of countries that have returned. And I wanted to say that in the design of this system we have not only seen the positive examples, but we have also seen others' mistakes and we are trying to avoid them. First it was the famous Eastern countries. What happened there? When the system collapsed, they didn't have to pay pensions. What did they say? That we are going to make a capitalisation system in total, which we will finance from privatisation revenues. Privatization didn't make any money. In fact, they went back to the previous system. But there they made a big mistake, which some Latin American countries did, and we don't. They took the whole system and made it a capitalist. What did I tell you before? That social security system is a insurance system. We don't do that. A small part of the system, only supplementary pensions do capitalisation. The second charge is what you're accusing us of doing. Privatization. So, that's where it happened? They told the various insured persons that they had to put a certain percentage of their salary into a private company. What happened in these cases? What happened was that insurance companies, promising rocked rabbits, started too much advertising. And we had two issues there: they increased their administrative costs very much. The second was that to cover this cost, they were increasingly risky investments, what they should not make of an insurance fund. The first round fell. We don't do that thing. We don't make individual accounts managed by the insured themselves. The fund does this thing. So we're out of here, too. The fourth point: There is a category of small countries that just changed the government and put a hand in the fund. What Mr. Tsipras promised us to do and what his friend Mr. Chaves did in Venezuela. We hope this thing won't happen. Subsequent point: investments in derivatives and cross-referenced markets. We need to understand why we're talking, because the terms are quite technical. Mr. Skourletis, the market in which you urged this fund to be involved is a regulator market.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u91	DATA?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u92	What you said about hydrocarbons.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u93	I told you about the D.C.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u94	A regulated market is the airport "ELEVELOS VENIZELOS" at which a Canadian fund comes and has these benefits. What is the big problem we would have in such a case involving the TEHA? What is the problem that we would have in a regulator market, such as the PPP markets, which we have very good returns and which are guaranteed by the public or in cases where we have very strict rules, such as investments financed by the European Investment Bank? That's what we're talking about. Second one. You have repeatedly talked about gambling, risky and so on. The derivatives, and especially when you invest in markets that have another currency of yours, is this thing that gives you security, it reduces the risk. Don't demonize everything. They need to. All funds in the world are using derivatives. Last one. I am mainly addressing KINAL. I found KINAL's attitude - you will allow me to say hypocritical. After you demonized the entire capitalisation, you just got up and said that we need to strengthen the professional funds. But aren't the professional funds? All these risks we have been talking about before do not have the professional funds? In order to be absolutely honest, if we were forty-five years earlier, I would really choose this solution, namely the strengthening of the professional funds. Because it can't be today. I would also like to stress that we are not against the professional funds. Next year we will also bring legislation to modernise the professional funds and see how we can strengthen their operation. But there are two limitations. The first is that in Greece the contributions of compulsory insurance are already 26%. In the other countries mentioned by your rapporteur, Mr Mulkiotis, contributions are from 12% to 18%. So there's a lot of room for the development of professional insurance. In Greece, it is de facto limited. Although the conditions under the Reppa Act, mentioned earlier, are particularly favourable, we still have no development in this area. Why is this happening here? For what I told you before. Not only that, but what we firmly believe is that the operation of the TECA will show the world why it needs to be guaranteed insurance and that will also favour the operation of the professional funds later on. Mr. Skourletis also asked me in my previous position if I know about the returns of the capitalist systems. I am well aware of that, Mr. Skourlet. Each year the OECD draws up a report. It is called "Pensions at a Glance", i.e. "Recipes with One Eye". It's a big version and it has a very rich statistical annex. Amongst things, there is a chapter that refers to capitalist insurance. The biggest part is for distribution insurance. This is what it says between the others, and what are the realities, that is, if we leave inflation outside, the performance of these systems of capitalisation. He showed them, I think Mr. Hatzidakis in his place. Satisfactory is these performances. But, I'd like that we don't go that far. I'd like us to stay in our country. Our country is not just "SPAIN" and all these things that you tell me. The main thing may be that we have created two companies - once again on Reppa, although they had been prepared in Yankis - to manage the reserves for the insurance funds. One was originally made for the IKA and the other was originally made for the STD - OTE. One is called the ECB and another is called the SECB. These companies invest mainly in Greece from their statutes. We have seventeen years and in these seventeen years we have known the PSI, we have experienced at least two downfalls of large Greek stock exchanges in which these companies invest. What odds did these companies have? The performances of the Insurance Institutions' AEDAC were 3.7% a year really, above the average of the OECD, the second, the ECTS, it was 2.9%, just less than 3%, which is the OECD average. What do I mean by that? It is not something that happens only in the evening, it also happens in our country. What was the difference with these companies in relation to the others that my colleague, George Alossoufis, said about the ignorant administrations? These were run from the beginning by professionals and were away. That's what we're trying to do with the TEC. I understand very well, of course, the argument made by some, that past performances are not a guarantee for future ones. That's true, but that's not just the bottom line. That's where you referred. It also applies to the top. The average is the one that's there. Especially for the latter, I would like to say that in this bill, which says in the first five years this fund will be managed by the ECT. My predecessor and State Secretary to the PASOK government, Mr. Petropoulos, is on his way to an article in "AGEAN" on good management held by the NCA in previous years and that he made profits of 600 million and so on. Indeed, it is. But, I don't understand. Is the ETUC good when it does such a thing over SYRIZA and bad when it does the management of the TEC? These things can't be done. Next item. For inequality, for it has been afflicted many times. We need to understand one thing. There are two types of inequalities to which I wish to refer. The first inequality has to do with transgenic inequalities, the second has to do with endogenous ones. For intergenerational what is it that you don't understand? In a distribution system it is the current generation of workers who pay for old pensions. If the contract written by the intergenerational is something particularly heavy for the new generation, this is a very great injustice for the new generation and I fear that what we already notice will be done. The new generation voting on her feet, leaving. We don't want that thing here. This act of creating capitalised subsidiary insurance is a very great benefit for the new generation and reduces intergenerational inequalities, as well as endogenous ones. Several of you - I keep track of your articles - write wonderfully about the theories of Tom Pickettie, Professor at the "Paris School of Economics" etc. What does Pickety actually say? Picketty says that global inequality is increasing because what is happening is that the growth rate of capital is higher than the growth rate of GDP. But this thing we're trying to do is get a piece of these capital gains here and turn them back into the world of work. In other words, it also reduces inequality within the generation itself. Also one more thing. I don't know if it happened by accident or there was a conscious distortion. In our system the entire redistribution which is now being made is carried out by the national pension. Neither the repayable pension nor the supplementary pension of the present scheme have redistributive characteristics. National pensions are not at all affected by our reform. So where exactly is your cause there? Next item is the immunity of members of the board of directors and officials of the EAEC. I think this is a serious misinformation. To write this law, we have based on good practices and principles of good governance of the insurance funds from countries that had long tradition, and furthermore we have taken mot a mot the corresponding European Union directives on these parts. The nature and object of the fund obviously require transparency and accountability and strong supervision, but this is other than criminalising the day-to-day operation of the fund. Of course, the members of the board of directors are being persecuted if they acted in deceptively or seriously negligently or in order to confer on themselves or on a third party an asset or to harm the public or others, and if they violated the confidentiality of the information and information obtained in the performance of their duties. This provision is even much stricter than a similar regulation that you voted in the SYRIZA on the board of directors of the ALAF. There's only the perp who's being persecuted. Heavy negligence? We're fine. What I want to repeat is that we cannot criminalise the day-to-day operation of the fund. I said it's alpha, we're running. This is not happening anywhere in the world. The last question you asked me and the last essential point is this. I was told by various people that 'I say, your studies are telling you about unrealistic growth and so on'. We have not harmed at all the growth rates that the European Union assumes in long-term forecasts. The only thing we did is that we said that by putting so much extra capital into the Greek economy, which goes through the new capitalisation system under various cases - we did various scenarios there - what is this thing that increases GDP? He didn't have a scary raise. In other words, at the end of the reference period, which was after fifty years in 2070, it gives a GDP of 7% higher, which would be without this change. But this 7% doesn't come sharply. It's built a little - a little. From every year of growth we have - you know that very well, because some of you were in economic ministries - from GDP one half a year goes back to state budget through direct taxes, indirect taxes and social security contributions. That is what gives the 50 billion previously mentioned. With all due respect, because IOBE has indeed done a very good job - it is written what I will say in his study - I think the financial result will be even greater. Why is it going to be even bigger? Because this new system gives too great a stimulus for uninsured work. IOBE did not take this into account at all. If we also have a result from this side, that is to say to reduce uninsured work as a result of these incentives, the financial results will be even greater than what I said here before. Mr Varoufakis - he is not here now - has asked me a few questions. I will speak outlinely, most of them I have already answered. The first thing he said is that the accounts are not individual. The accounts are individual, individual. Investments are indeed collective, but this does not mean that the accounts have the same return, because the accounts have a different composition. Second. I was very careful in my wording. Mr Varoufakis said: 'But usually when we have these three dangers, the three together'. That's the wrong thing. That is, this example that he took from Greece over the last decade is the exception, it's not the norm. The demographic problem has too many European countries, but they have no problem either with their budgets or with their markets. So the three dangers I've said have a low level of correlation, and that's what makes us think that we're very shielding our system. There was another thing about inflation. That's technical enough. Let's leave it. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise again, despite the fact that the previous climate was perhaps not the right one, the insurance - I insist - is a national issue and has a very long horizon. There is a great need for national consensus and cross-party consultation in this area. I think that in this bill consensus has been missing. I hope that the next legislative initiatives by the government in the field of insurance are different. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Let's go on with the chatter list. We invite Mr. Socrates Vardakis from SYRIZA to Stepma. Mr. Biagis will be followed by the Change Movement, Ms. Alexopoulou, Ms. Kanelli and Ms. Evthymou. Mr. Vardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Good trip to Mikis Theodorakis, who will certainly continue not only to accompany us, but also to inspire if you want to raise the Greek people. The consensus, Mr Hatzidakis, comes from the composition of ideas, values and proposals, not at the level of persons. Mr. Bukouros left, but when you listen to him as well as the New Democracy colleagues talking about splitting up, it will surely be unworthy of comment. Ms. Mitsotakis: Unfortunately we failed. That is exactly what the Prime Minister of the country said yesterday, announcing the much-discussed reshape. First time we've seen a government that is both laughing and crying. World originality! It's your fault, Tsipras. It's your fault. It's SYRIZA. Prime Minister, for your inability and for your criminal inaction to prevent a total catastrophe, I don't have to say anything. They said all of your members, George Champourniotis Mayor Mantou - Lake - Agia Annas, Ioannis Kotzias Mayor of Istias - Edipsos, Fani Spani Spani Spaniard of Stereas Greece, whether or not made up. Of course, people desperately shouting “we are alive after the fires.” Hard reality not only disproves you, Mr. Mitsotakis, but shows dangerous criminal incapacity. You are now a defendant and not a prosecutor, as you presented to your last post in the House. Mortality due to pandemic in our country was launched at the top of Europe, incapable of facing the third and fourth waves of pandemic. The 18.5 million campaigns for vaccination in the bronto. They break down the hospitals in the country and you target the Greek people to cover up your criminal responsibilities. The applause turns into redundancies. When the President of SYRIZA told you from this, the Step "take back the minimum import base, even for this year", with a narrow voice, the Minister, Mrs Kerameos, called for misinformation and populism. Here are your works, Mrs. Keramea! You executed the new generation. You've done the dream to our children. You sent to Caucasus the fighters of life and learning. And I mean the high school graduates. No level of education escaped the tornado you created. Thousands of candidates stayed out of higher education. In ten sections with a hundred and fifty seats, nine and ten were covered. A characteristic example at the Mineral Resources Department of the Polytechnic University of Crete of the hundreds of eighteen places were covered. What are you going to say to those who filled out the molecules for the medical school and aren't imported? There was not even one entertainer at the Holy School of Crete. Congratulations, Mrs. Keramea! I said that about Mr. Bukouros who asked what bills we are going to abolish. We will abolish these three bills and work and education and today's insurance. Of course, for serious issues of everyday life that arise 'the fire is mixed'. Unemployment is at its height, the economy is at the tartar, the poverty of society is at the very heart of the pillars. With fuel, PPC and high-elevation items a winter is propelled. You're a circus government, a miserable troupe! Take a look, Minister, apart from the absence of Mr Mitsotakis - which is not an excuse, as you say in an emblematic bill, to be in the Ministerial Council, but let us accept it - see the seats of your MPs and how they support this flag bill. You continue the destructive work, unable to meet the needs of the times. As long as you are not exemplified by your criminal mistakes, you once again lead the country to huge deadlocks. The New Republic of Mr. Samaras handed over to SYRIZA an insurance system to the limits of bankruptcy, with the PSI, stock exchanges, with interest-free reserves of a decade, with distortions and mismanagement which resulted in the social security system showing 1.8 billion deficit in 2015. SYRIZA achieved a large intersection and a bandage in the country's insurance system with Law4387/2016. Listen, colleagues of the New Democracy. In 2015 we lacked 350 million to pay pensions. And you're swinging our finger? Aren't you embarrassed? If that's possible! We missed 350 million! Today the New Republic of Mitsotakis implements its well-known policy, privatising subsidiary insurance, opening the door to private interests, gambling the fighting of the Greek people. You see the bills you pay are many and large, obviously. The regulations affect the social system and the public nature of insurance against all insured persons and taxpayers. You have had the opportunity to hear our own proposals at the hearing of bodies, the proposals of small and medium-sized enterprises, the workers. Voyager's voice! You do not have any interest in the huge economic and social costs that your reform will have in today's and future, not only pensioners, but also workers and taxpayers. Mr. Hatzidakis, are we now asking you to answer who is the liar, you or Mr. Brutsis? In 2020, Mr Brutsis presented us from this point of view and even approved as he was saying by the European Union, which told us that the insurance system is viable by 2070. Today you are characterizing the present insurance system as obsolete and failed. So tell us who the real man was and who the liar is. You didn't cover us, Mr. Chacloglu, in your position on the gold jobs of more than a hundred. Of course we won't know. Will it be the Greek Stock Exchange? Will it be foreign funds? Will it be the foreign exchanges? So these will be in contrast. Those who manage the so-called "atomic money", will be exempted from civil and criminal liability in advance. In other words, you have not been exemplified by the stock exchange, the structured bonds. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It's limited time to tell everything. Of course, it is dangerous to write in the earlier decisions of the Council of State. It is dangerous, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that your proposal today is a matter of political choice, of neoliberal choice, which includes privatising subsidiary insurance, of liberalising the field of private interests, of gambling - normal, that is, roulette - but with a player. You told us, Mr Tsakloglu and Mr Hatzidakis, that costs will be covered by the transition budget from one system to another. Which budget exactly? Money's a lot. If you do not understand, bring another memorandum to the backs of the Greek people. You are proposing a system that affects public policy, which affects the solidarity of the generations. Your proposal, Minister and Minister, is equivalent to the end of social security. There are studies demonstrating that supplementary pensions will be reduced by 35% unless the pensioner is gone after the seventy-fourth year of age. That is why, Mr President, we are not only voting against this bill, but it will also be one of the first bills to be abolished and will be very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u97	Good. We will now give the floor to Mr. Dimitrios Biagi from the Change Movement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already announced the names of the next ones, after Mr Biagis, spokesmen, Mrs Alexopoulou, Mrs Kanellis and Mrs Euthymou. That was the first five. I did not say the name of Mrs Ahtsoglou, because there was agreement with the previous President-in-Office not to be announced so that when she comes to plenary she could speak. I'm explaining there's no misunderstandings. In any case, Mrs Ahtsoglou was after Mrs Alexopoulou. It is a good request from the Bureau to give it a position, because it has to carry out other tasks which are urgently called upon to do so. By the way, we wish her the baby would live. Here, Mr. Biagi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. It's worth it. His memory is eternity! Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after the fire latitude of August and the very hot summer that we have lived, we are coming to Parliament today and we are discussing a very demanding draft law on insurance reform for the new generation, the introduction of the capitalisation system of predefined contributions to subsidiary insurance and so on. The truth is that, from the title alone, it can be very easily trapped and enclaved, I would say, in your instantly methodized and thoroughly constructed political games, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, despite its ambitious provisions and its great claims, cannot be regarded as reformist alone. The political project behind cameras and curtains is extremely disastrous for the new generation and society as a whole. Despite your ambitious allegations about the Swedish model - the foundation of so-called 'individual curtains' - I am very afraid that this new model of social security touches once again the limits of insurmountable neoliberalism. Finally, very specific economic interests are being served, with the main concern of regulating very specific economic indicators and figures. At the same time, young people, the many new generation, are being undermined and underwent at the same time. You really play with their pain and talk about social security. When? When the vast majority of them are uninsured and work under terrible and exhaustive conditions for their survival? Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law could be particularly functional, efficient and effective, I would say, if we lived in another country, in another society and clearly, in another economy. The so-called Swedish model you are constantly evangelizing is a complex structure with its own logic, its own historical balances, and most importantly, it is in Sweden that the so-called "social state", Minister, with real benefits, solid bases and very strong structures. In Sweden, therefore, so-called ‘individual buttons’ that make employee contributions a very small area of the public pension pillar, since the contributions paid amount to only 2.5%. Also, in Sweden, the participation of the social partners is decisive and decisive in the functioning of the social security system, with a broad majority of 80% in each legislation. However, the most important thing is that in Sweden the insurance funds, structures and, in general, the state mechanism operate in a citizen-friendly manner and mainly with the citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece today and burdening the social security sector and not in the image of the country in public health with the situations we are experiencing, the difficulties of pandemic, with the lack of medical and nursing staff, with almost all the health structures based on the honor of doctors and nurses, it is only worth mentioning that the insurance funds are now in their mercy. Minimum officials in one department to get the pensions of many thousands of our fellow citizens out of work, with obsolete structures and non-existent subsidiary infrastructures, resulting in huge delays for pension beneficiaries. Instead of looking at a first shot of how you will save and disembowel the insurance system from this problem that has been multiplied by the creation of e-ECA, you want to present yourself today as the saviours for the new generation and the nation, invoking a new insurance system that basically triggers and strengthens social automation, but also age racism, in fact, promising young people that they will stop paying their parents. In addition, you are sowing fruitfruits in the new generation that with the present capitalisation system higher, quicker, supplementary pensions will be provided. I would therefore like to point out to you once again that you are addressing a country with the highest unemployment in Europe in youth and where the word 'employment' for young people has the following characteristics: 'black' and undeclared work, overtime, individual contracts, the eight hours spent, which ultimately ends in the 12-hour hour and ends in a payroll. And it is neither representative nor proportional of the typical qualifications of young people, nor of their actual work, nor of their labor and effort. So all this at the same time advocates and reveals that no one to date can speak and guarantee pensions. So it is unacceptable to create an extremely perverse, virtual reality. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law the new generation ultimately loses. When it comes to retirement age, it will see supplementary pension - with today's data - reduced by 25% to 35%. That's what the studies say. Young insured people will pay their contributions twice in the individual money and through taxation in order to cover the exorbitant cost of the transition. It also loses the old generation and the new pensioners. Government experiments will lead to a huge deadlock in the Single Assistance Fund, as the insured and their income will gradually be reduced, as only the new ancillary capitalisation fund will be provided by young people. Thus the Single Assistance Fund will gradually be left free of insurance and resources, only with pensioners and expenses. Before I close my position, I would like to comment on the government's argument regarding the treatment of the country's demographic problem. The demographic issue, Mr President, which may be the country's first major problem, is not solved by mediation solutions and additional terrain. If we really want to find a solution to this hot problem, then you must adopt, gentlemen, the model of full employment and decent living wages rather than the extension of part-time and temporary employment and the elasticisation of the working relationships that you have so far promoted. Minister, I will conclude by saying that the problems are many and great and need study, interest and effort and until we achieve this, let us have the political leadership of your ministry and a little more effort to solve some problems of our fellow citizens. To be more specific, Minister, I refer to professional drivers of tourist buses. Some twenty bus drivers in Corfu, unlike the rest of Greece, did not receive a single euro as an unemployment benefit throughout the previous period, as the seasonal stumbling block for them was never exceeded and the other colleagues in different ways from the local offices of OAED were given a solution, they were not included anywhere in the design of your Ministry. Without being convinced of the unacceptableness of their request, they addressed the leadership of your Ministry, were referred to Mr Protossaltis, Mrs. Strinakis, now Mrs. Colovou, tomorrow to someone else. They are people, Minister, they need, they are workers, they have designed their lives. Look, bend over this problem a little bit. You have proven that when you want something, you can deal with it. It has a human dimension on this particular subject that I mention to you. In conclusion, I would like to say to you this: if you really want to help young people's employment, you have nothing but to make a substantial change in the overall social security system based on the fight against inequalities and on the promotion of equal opportunities for all. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Biagi. Mrs. Efi Ahtzioglu has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President, but also colleagues for this priority. Ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of a difficult situation for the country, with the fourth wave of pandemic in front of us and the country not to be prepared again and not to have built the multi-stop wall of immunity, with the country also measuring its wounds from the catastrophic fires, the Government brings this insurance bill, which claims to many people that it is coming for the good of citizens, to increase the income of citizens, pensioners and insured persons. I have heard a repetition of the main arguments from Mr Tsakloglu before and I would like to see them again, because the reality, the truth is far from being said by the Minister. The first: the Government and the Minister once again claim that this change in the insurance system, the partial privatization of subsidiary insurance, that is, is necessary because the insurance system is collapsed, is not economically viable. That's false. The country's insurance system as it stands, namely, with the reform that took place in 2016 and has been maintained in many respects, is economically viable and indeed with regard to the state's participation in the national insurance system as a whole, it will go down and in 2040 it reaches the European average and then falls below the European average. That is why the European Commission and the Ageing Working Group, namely the competent institution of the Commission, have approved this system as economically viable, because the projections show that from 2040 onwards we will have a state' s financial participation below the European average. Attention now here. The most interesting thing is that subsidiary insurance is not currently burdening public finances. This is important. So all this argument about the need to change, that is, the need to privatise subsidiary insurance simply does not apply, is false. Secondly, the government says that we are leaving it aside that it is not necessary, but it is for the sake of the income of the insured and the retired. I think that, with simple logic, we all understand this: in the present system, the contributions of the insured, the workers pay today's pensions. When the string closes, i.e. you get the contributions of the insured and place them on individual buttons, you have trouble paying today's pensions, so you put today's pensions into an uncertainty. You say that this will not lead to a reduction in pensions, but there will be an empty, de facto hole, which should somehow be covered. How will this hole be covered? From the state budget, you're answering. But what's the state budget? Is it not the state budget something that affects citizens' incomes? Shouldn't this gap be financed through general citizens' taxation? So all citizens in some way will be forced by this change. How much will that cost be? Your own studies you testify say that it will be up to all 74 billion cumulations. This is a shocking cost, which should be borne by citizens through general taxation. The argument that the income of citizens or pensioners is generally being improved is therefore being rejected. Attention: All this is without taking into account that we are now in an economic crisis. This cost, that is, would be unbearable at any time. In particular, today when we are in a period of economic crisis and the surge of public debt, the government's obsession with this privatisation is becoming extreme irrational. Fourth argument: OK, there may be these problems, these risks, but you say that they are for the sake of the new generation. The new insured will have much better future than that. What aren't you saying? You are not saying that the contributions of the insured, the young people, the new generation will be exposed to the risks of the capital markets. That's what you have to say. You may claim that there are terrible yields and that this will lead to a very large increase in revenue. You have to say, however, that they are exposed to the dangers of the capital markets, are gambling in other words. That the new insured must know. What are the odds? I heard the Minister say we were in danger before. Should we not say that there are very serious examples - and unfortunately too much - where there have been very large losses in private pension funds? Many examples. Ireland, 38% losses. Australia, 27% losses. The United States, losses of 26% of these systems. These are losses which the insured have suffered through this gambling, that is, the investment they have made and the low returns that have been made due to economic crises. That's what young people need to know. He says Mr Tsakloglu: 'You choose examples to give a disastrous picture'. May I give you a comprehensive picture to be informed? Total losses of private capitalisation pensions in 2008 reached $3.5 trillion. This is the overall picture, not selected image to jeopardize. And don't tell me that at that time there was an economic crisis, because now we are in a very serious crisis. What happens is that the risk of capital markets is transferred to the workers, the insured and the retired. This is done with this choice you make. That's a very serious uncertainty. Fifth argument: Mr Tsakloglu says that this change will only restore the transgenic inequality that exists at the moment because of the existing distribution system. The opposite is true, the exact opposite, the total individuality in management, that is, the one you're going to introduce is that ejects the transgenic inequalities, because the economic gap I said would create who would finance it, who would pay it? The new generations won't pay for it by taxation? Is it not that trans-national inequality is not evicted through this choice that you make, contrary to the current system in which contributions pay pensions, pensions are consumed, and that contributes to an increase in GDP? It is exactly the opposite of what the Minister said. The current system helps the liquidity of the economy, the public and distribution system, not that of the full individual management of the piggybacks you are building. I'm closing up with the last argument about deflection of growth. In the end, the New Democracy says that all these problems and costs will be solved because they will be invested - it says - in the Greek markets, this will stimulate growth, increase GDP and solve the problems. This is the general account of the New Democracy, but this narrative of neoliberalism always collapses that problems will be solved in this way. But what doesn't he tell us? Or rather some Members of this House are saying that, and this is where the contradiction seems to be. It does not tell us that no one limits the funds to which they will invest. The funds will be invested where the best returns are. There is a free movement of capital. No one will say that the funds should be invested in the Greek market. The opposite is true. The funds will run to invest where there are the greatest returns, and in foreign bonds. Many of us in the New Democracy see this as a positive one. But this completely reverses the argument that we will have to lead to domestic development. And give an example. The "NATIONAL SAFALISTIC" currently has 70% of its funds invested abroad, not Greece. It makes sense, it searches for the best returns to the current economic system. So the only basis on which you base all your arguments on dealing with the huge costs, the problems, the uncertainty of this change that you bring, as well as the argument on the good things of the country, is total waste. The losers of this change are, therefore, the whole of Greek society, now insured, future insured, current pensioners, future pensioners, taxpayers, state. And finally won who are they? Some oligopoly of multinational insurance companies, because small insurance companies can actually work in such a big game. So this is a policy for the benefit of very specific oligopolis, insurance companies, multinationals, oligopolis. And it is not the only case that the New Democracy Government makes such a choice. She has also done it in education with private colleges, she has also done it in health by privatizations and favors to the clinicians, she does it in insurance. This is the permanent choice of the government of Mr Mitsotakis. I feel, however, that society is beginning to understand this choice and that its tolerance for whom Mr Mitsotakis' government is political is being reduced seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Ahchioglu. The Minister has asked for the floor to be put on the amendments, which he accepts and which he does not.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, when will the speakers speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u103	He'll only tell who's accepting and who's not. That's a few seconds. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u104	Look, I will speak if the House agrees. If he doesn't agree, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u105	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u106	After wishing Mrs Ahtsoglou for the newborn, as I have not seen her since, I would like to ask you, if you agree, ladies and gentlemen, to say a few words about the amendment. If you don't want to, I won't say. There has been no debate and I think that for reasons of order the government should refer to the amendment. Since the amendment of the Ministry of Finance has been presented, but we have not tabled our amendment at all, I would like to refer to it. If you do not want me to say which amendments we are accepting and what we do not do and what I close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u107	Minister, there is a regular tactic, the ministerial amendments tabled by the Minister. From that point of view, I think that the Minister is required to put this matter to the vote. You don't want to? Don't you want the House? He's a sovereign. If you do not wish to hear these two words that the Minister wants to say and that the written words are sufficient, then the Minister will proceed to the second step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u108	Then, Mr. President. Let the speakers speak first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u109	Mr Minister, say a few words about the amendment. Let us know which amendments you are accepting, so that we can close the matter here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, we have a number of important issues in the other provisions and the amendment. I'll talk to you in titles. Firstly, we have the fact that the reduction in insurance contributions by three units is prolonged in 2022.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u111	I would ask you to refer to the number of amendments, the general and the specific number.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u112	I am referring to Amendment No 1052 and to Amendment No 77: Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. It has several arrangements, including insurance contributions, which are maintained up to 2022 for three percentage points. Aggregating is almost four together with the previous reduction, which is good news for the purchasing power of workers and strengthening the competitiveness of businesses. We also have three other regulations in the other provisions in the amendment, which I shall mention with titles because they are important. I'm not going to bring it all up. The first is the new AMCA. This must be recorded in the Minutes. We reform the AMKA regarding any contact of the citizen with the Greek social security system and access to the National Health System, in order to lay the basis for its digital modernisation and to limit circumvention, in particular, and AMKA extradition phenomena from non-beneficiaries - for frauds do - as well as continued use of AMKA by non-beneficiaries, such as in the event of the actual beneficiary's death for free medical treatment or the receipt of pre-school benefits. The regulation we are passing, codified by the beneficiaries, the conditions and stages of the issue, deactivation and inactivation of AMKA in order to facilitate the interconnection of information systems and the automation of the entire process. It is an intervention management type, without an ideological or political sign. We have a uniform procedure for the certification of incapacity for work. We provide for this issue, for the provision of cash benefits, sickness, maternity, etc., we define the relevant health bodies and lay down uniform rules for the referral of medical advice to the health committees, and to date the individual provisions of the legislation of each body that joined the ECA remain in force. The single rules operate in the direction of simplifying procedures, facilitating digitisation and paving the way for the corresponding configuration of the ECA computer system. A third arrangement is for NAT's widows. We lift the loose end for a category of pensioners in NAT, for whom the transfer of pensions to the widows and children of seafarers has been blocked for years, as there has been no recalculation under the provisions of the Katrugalos Act. I could also refer to other favourable provisions, for example for the one-off case, where the one-off payment which the insured person has paid for his/her life gives us the right to request supplementing the one-off or favourable instalments for the repayment to the ECA of unduly paid pensions due to death through the retention of a lower pension amount with more instalments. It's general regulations that are favourable. I have the impression that you too will vote for them. I don't see why you're across the street. I repeat, however, that I referred to these arrangements for order purposes. Of course the government is in favour of this amendment. It is also in favour of Amendment No 1045 and of the Ministry of Finance specialising in 71. In relation to Parliament's amendments, without implying that we are necessarily opposed in principle, we do not accept them for a number of reasons. I would just like to make a reference to Amendment No 1050 and, in particular, Amendment No 75, which abolishes the reduction of the national pension for members of the Greek minority in Albania and the relatives from the countries of the former Soviet Union, for which there is an election commitment by the Government. It is something that we are discussing with the Treasury and we will be placed when the treatment is matured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Alexopoulou Christina has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Three-day national mourning. Goodbye, Mickey Theodorakis! We mourn all Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating in the national Parliament today an insurance bill which for the first time includes the new generation both in its title and in its philosophy. With concepts and practices that apply in Greece, it is adequately confronted with new conditions on the labour market. He talks about capitalisation, investment in growth and choice. SYRIZA colleagues, we have all experienced your obsession with outdated and inefficient left-wing solutions. It is more than certain that all that we are discussing today is causing you allergy. Capitalisation for you is a common imported demonium and not an optimal practice applied to most advanced countries in the European Union. The investment of the reserves in growth is gambling and the insurance option when it exists is the absolute crash of the state. But you had no problem gambling for four and a half years with the lives and the future of hundreds of people insured, doctors, lawyers, engineers, all free professionals. You ranked them, you arbitrarily and universally ranked us among the rich in this country and literally sucked our blood, draining incomes through taxation and insurance contributions by more than 80%. You had no problem building new pensioners through the Katrugalou law, setting up a stimulus for living at work, investing in the ratio of workers to pensioners. What does it matter to you that all young workers will never be retired? To finish it the same way that our sovereign people have ended, the mask of progress - which I have to say is on your hands - falls on the feast in this Chamber and is deceived along with your positions. In all possible tons you declare that you are defending your youth and your needs, while effectively denying them the opportunity to increase pensions and better prospects. Well, that's enough. Your disastrous passage from the country's governance ended two years ago. The current Government of New Democracy will give Greece and the Greeks and especially the young and young people the insurance they deserve, an ancillary insurance system offering greater supplementary pensions, more investment options for the insurance and insurance product as well as for the development and labour market. This bill is accompanied for the first time by three serious studies demonstrating both its necessity and its effectiveness. That is why I am not going to talk about numbers, but about people and especially young people, behind them, and about the prospects that the bill creates. I will deal with the philosophy it includes and the overthrow that it brings to the inspired mindsets of years. Ladies and gentlemen, the generalised lack of confidence in the system has resulted in huge tax evasions and avoidances, with supplementary insurance funds taking the lead. In order to cover total pension costs for the period 2000-2014, the country provided its insurance funds with an amount corresponding to GDP of 2014, i.e. around EUR 199 billion. The "first time left" came only to destroy the corrective movements that were launched for the course of the insurance in 2012-2015 and to completely level any insurance faith built in the same time. The indifference that has arisen in the insurance system, particularly as regards young people, is an active bomb on its foundations. It strengthens black work, strengthens intergenerational solidarity as a cornerstone, undermines collectiveity and exhaustes both its strengths and the strengths of the people who make it up. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Key issues, such as demographics, combined with increasing life expectancy, simply aggravate an already difficult equation. So in Greece of the 21st century, where parents and grandparents worked for their children and grandchildren, we have now reached the opposing side to work for the children to ensure their own pensions, and this is a situation that brings all those involved into discomfort and a loss of confidence in the state as a guarantor of fairness and regularity. From the same Step in 2016, in his first speech as then Chief of the opposition officer, today's Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis placed the insurance on the first pillar of the restoration of the citizen's faith in the operation of the state. With the intervention on the main pension side, our government has corrected several of the imperfections of the Katrugalos law and has taken the first step towards changing the architecture of the system. Today we are in front of the Greek Parliament and are asking for its vote on a bill established by the Capital Insurance Fund. It is a courageous reform that is not afraid to introduce the concept of capitalisation of the so-called money and the concept of savings in subsidiary insurance, to guarantee for old insured persons the amount of their supplementary pension, but also for new insured older supplementary pension and more options for insurance products, to return to new insured persons for the first time when the general retirement age limit is reached, provided that they have not completed in the 15 years, to provide for a minimum supplementary pension for invalidity and a minimum supplementary pension for the insured person something that does not apply to the existing supplementary pension scheme, to cover insurance risks of old age, disability and death, to invest the reserves of the new fund with serious security and transparency, by ensuring the greatest possible returns. Ladies and gentlemen, in this government, we are neither afraid of words nor of their importance. On the contrary, we are committed to the rules and their faithful implementation. As far as we are concerned, the substance of this legislative intervention remains unchanged once and for all. We are building a relationship of trust with Greece's new workforce. Today we are signing a new reinsurance contract between us tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is not just an application of the best practices applied throughout the world. It is the implementation of our Prime Minister's commitment to an insurance system of anthropcentric and citizen-friendly. It is a cheque of confidence for the young workers of this country for the future. The left always asks "if not us, who, if not now, when", usually without being credited for radical reforms. The answer is simple. 'We' and 'now'. We will change the face of subsidiary insurance in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u115	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mrs Liana Canelle from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many people have spoken and said much and they will speak even more and say more, honoring Mickey Theodorakis' memory. Everyone has acquired experiences and experiences from Mikis belonging to Greece, art and the world. But I think it's worth it from this one, the Stepma, say goodbye and honor him as he would have liked. It seems to me that our party's proposal for three days of mourning and closure of the House was not automatically accepted. He wrote: "Now at the end of my life, at the time of the revaluations, the details fade out of my mind and the large sizes remain. So I see that the most critical, strong and mature years I've spent it under the JRC flag. That is why I want to leave this world as a communist. I therefore believe that we all have an obligation to allow it here in the House to leave the world as a communist, as he wanted. And I say this to remind those who claim that the unity of the Greek people, for which he fought and sacrificed the maturest, hardest and best years of his life and the most creative, like many other fighters, is something that can be seen as a given. It's not a given. You brought a bill, and I'm sorry that the Minister is not here, who I heard he intervened just before we talked, and I honestly say it to you, I'm sorry because you're making euphemism in the title of the bill. You say you're talking about the news. Aren't you ashamed to say you're talking about young people and bringing a bill about young people? It's embarrassing, isn't it? The New Democracy previous has made me and all the rest of us working forty and forty-five years to feel guilty because we have our children. It's our fault that we've been working for so many years, that we've been paying the couch for reservations, that retired people of my age and older than me, and fewer than me have eaten eleven cuts from all parties in the last decade, in a state that went bankrupt and today wants to make the guarantor? And you come and tell me it's my fault for the young children I've forced them to pay for my pension. Haven't I paid my pension and all the workers forty and forty years? Aren't you ashamed? Don't you get out of it? Are you talking to witches and cardboarders about "the Stock Exchange psychology"? Did you ever think about the psychology of the young people? They must start their lives with part-time work, with disastrous relationships, with black employment relationships, and tomorrow they have no jobs, affected by unemployment, in insecurity, and instead of thinking about the baby's powder that we must cut off from their unexistent wages, they must think about the powder they will need if they are in decline and choose between the two powders. Because that's the subsidiary. We put the subsidiary in our pockets for the workers. He didn't put it in the state and you're coming now and you get it to give it to a company all together, because it's a company. The state is privatised in Greece at the time that it is capitalist and not even domestically independent, because it also belonged to a wider structure of broader twilights and interests such as the European Union, with borrowers and the borrower, with zero interest rates that the European Central Bank gives to big capital and banks. Where will he give with zero interest rates? To the employee who, in order to build a home or to get a loan to marry or to get a loan to give birth to women earlier, was due at 17%, 20% and 30% interest rate. Now will you send him to the private sector to ensure what the Americans won before the pandemic? Aren't you ashamed? You're talking about young people, and you guarantee them that they will have a high pension in 2070, that is, when my son is seventy-five years old. You don't know what dawns you tomorrow morning. You don't know anything. In 2000, you knew? When we went out on the road before the Yankee bill before 2000, did you know? Did you know that Memorandum 1 and Memorandum 2 and Memorandum 3 and the PSI that was taken from the professional funds, such as mine, 90% of the money that the workers had taken out of their pocket and from their work? And you come and say you guarantee? Which state does it guarantee? Did you go bankrupt or didn't you go bankrupt twice? Mr. Papandreou said "Unfortunately we have failed" and his advisor was Mr. Tsakloglou. Was that my advisor? He went to Kastelorizo and said that the country had spit on them. You have made the countries companies, you have given them the big capital. The state belongs to its bourgeois class and, in fact, to the fringe of the bourgeoisie and you come to make adjustments and talk to us about grandparents and grandparents, without shame, without shame. In the years my grandparents and grandparents and fathers and mothers, when the future of their children was hanging, said: "One thing I have a wish and a curse, not to say shit in my pit." Are you coming and guaranteeing today the lives of your children with legislation that you bring them here lightly, market-based heart, on the basis of profits, on the basis of growth, based on algorithms, quotas, psychologicals and risks? Cost and risk! And why he can trust a state that you, you, you, who deceived it, PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA, ANEL, ANEL with PASOK, ANEL with SYRIZA, PASOK with New Democracy. Everyone together, all the combinations you've made. ‘One, two, X’. You have never played on the back of the country within the European Union, within NATO, in spending money. You made infinite investments. You sent people out for wars. It is so characteristic that, based on the agreement you had on the troops in Afghanistan. If a soldier were to strike and die from these willing forces of the alliance, his family had to pay transport and burial expenses. In this state you say you're going to build a company, T.A., in which the other one will deposit his fine money and make a calculation. Aren't you embarrassed? Is there going to be some sort of calculation in the void? What if he's been out of work for a year? On what scale is his subsidiary going on? What if he hits his bike and stays out of work six months? A machine that puts it out of his pocket at nine o'clock. To get 4.5 thousand badges old, it took fifteen years with a stable job, with an eight-hour. Now with three hours, two hours, five hours, six hours, half, remains, 30 years to get the minimum, and it takes over eighty years of work to get the highest. And you tell him about the subsidiary that you will calculate it from the balance that will remain in the fund by those who will not be responsible when the fund is run. If the fund falls out, it's down. A little modesty, a little dippy? Up until today, all of you who rule from at least post-multiple, have created a new generation that if you ask it psychologically - anyone from eighteen and upwards, up to thirty-five - what pension does it take, will you answer: "You're mocking me? I shall not be retired, nor chief nor subsidiary.' And you come to him and say to him that you guarantee him that he will have so many returns so that when he is seventy and seventy-four years old and he will work, then he'll have achieved his performances, because you have invested today's political and real gains in the great capital and the risk you bring today by gambling and playing on the stock market of your avenge, the life of young people. One thing you dare not: Turn against old people and at the same time unresponsive to speak of transgenic solidarity. You pulled a knife and cut the young people with the old, and you made them accountable both. Sadly, you are responsible for the division that you are now building in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u117	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr George Karasmani from New Democracy, followed by Mr Borente.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I express my deep emotion for the loss of Mikis Theodorakis, this great Greek who, through his work and his presence in his long life and in times hard times, lifted up and kept the Greek soul high, the ideals of democracy and freedom around the world. With the work that leaves us as a valuable deposit, he will always be alive among us. Mr President, you will allow me to refer to a personal matter. And I'm explaining. I have an answer to my colleague and former Minister, Mr Arahovitis, who, after his speech earlier, and after leaving the Chamber, irresponsiblely and unequivocally claimed that the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme received in 2015 with the 6 billion was returned by the European Commission because it was allegedly only made for the purpose of showing that we were doing something in the elections. First of all, my colleague has shown inadmissible ignorance, given that he was responsible for his party's agricultural sector. Where did he see the elections? We tabled the rural development programme on 17 July 2014. We had elections then? And how can he say today that they rebuilt it while it remained the same, unchangeable, with the same budget, with the same measures, with the same actions? The truth is, they did something. They managed in this 2014-2020 programme to load 1.5 billion unsuccessful obligations of the previous Agricultural Development Programme 2007-2013 that they could not absorb in 2015, because they had other problems and priorities, the well-known consultations, the referendum, the third memorandum, the pre-election period and dealt with after their re-election in October, after losing ten months. And they were keeping the responses of the management committee locked in the Ministry drawers, despite the fact that on the Ministry's day of delivery, but also the aftermath I went back - it has never been done again - I warned them that the first quarter is extremely critical and I had recommended them to keep my partners running and finishing all the procedures. But as usual they deaf. Mr Arachovitis obviously judges the odds himself because, in 2019, he was making advances to the trees farmers in 2019, while the House was closed and said that he also submitted a crop restructuring programme to the European Commission, and it proved itself here in Parliament - and it is recorded in the Minutes - that he did not deposit a single piece of paper to Europe. I'm stopping at this. So let Mr Arahovitis be more careful from now on, especially when he comes to me, because during the twenty-five years I have been in this Chamber, the Minutes show that I always speak with truthful evidence. I now come to the draft law on the new supplementary insurance system, a truly important reform for the new generation of insured persons. Through this system, as the Minister has shown and analysed, greater returns and higher pensions are guaranteed by 43% to 68% for young people in relation to the current system. Secondly, the new insured person gains control over his supplementary pension. Thirdly, it will contribute to the fight against tax evasion, as the young man can monitor his contributions. In addition, many innovations in European standards are introduced. There has been a detailed reference to this, so I now come to three amendments which I have tabled to the Minister. These are some improvements that need to be made with regard to the conditions for the retirement of certain vulnerable pensioners. The first category is those who work in the private sector and are cared for by people with heavy disabilities. I propose that the injustices created by Law 4336 of 2015 and those workers should be restored to the conditions applicable to the same workers in the public sector. It will be a basic act of social sensitivity, equality and justice in a favoured country. The second category concerns seasonal workers, logging workers, seasonal workers in factories, focusing on buildings. These people by the nature of their work are impracticable to fill at least a hundred days of work each year in the last five years, as the law defines. So that those who have completed the sixty-second year of age and four and a half thousand badges to receive the reduced pension may have completed five hundred working days cumulatively, that is, one year may have thirty and the next have eighty days. Third category is those insured in the EGF and in the OGA who should not owe out of insurance contributions of more than EUR 20,000 for EGF and more than EUR 6000 for the OGA, to retire. It is the inability of a large majority of these people to respond to this obligation. The farmers, in recent years, have been severely tested by the major disasters in their production from extreme weather phenomena, due to climate change, even facing the problem of survival. But for the free professionals the debt in the insurance funds has been cumulated, not because they are poorly paid, but because they have been faced with dramatic consequences of the economic and health crisis, as well as with excessively increased insurance contributions over recent years. That is why it is objectively necessary and I propose that there should be a further increase in the OGA debt of EUR 10,000 and the OGA debt of EUR 30,000. For more details, I will table the amendments in the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Georgios Karasmanis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, we need to deal with the side effects of the spring ices of 2021. For workers in processing, diagrams, transport, export, cooperatives, producer groups, etc. In order for these seasonal workers to be able to receive unemployment benefit they should be able to reduce their equivalents from a hundred to fifty, as happened last year. I believe that, with the good intention of both the Minister and the State Secretary, they will do their best to the extent possible and to the extent possible and to the financial area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u119	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr. Georgios Bored by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. As the route of Mikis Theodorakis, a great Greek who left life, has finally been the great ones, it is the elevation that speaks with history. And let me say, with reference to the current ones, that what remains of politics is the essence of it. The rest, at the gaze of history, is just tired. What we have seen recently, after the tragedy of the fires, with the so-called reconstruction, is the revenge of politics against communication, against propaganda. When Mr. Mitsotakis removed Mr. Chrysochoidis, the two ministers from the Ministry of Health and Mr. Theocharis from Tourism would say that he was taken up by a desire of self-criticism about the mistakes made in these key areas. But it was something else. While approaching the big issue, the national theme of the fires plummeted into regularism, he wanted to "walk it" to SYRIZA by attacking Mr. Apostolakis, as he thought. But when the settlement paper came back, Mr. Mitsotakis - who tried to hide his responsibilities behind Mr. Apostolakis - said that Mr. Apostolakis is a coward and not himself, whoever attempted to hide behind Mr. Apostolakis. So here, when referring to self-criticism, one would say the dream and elsewhere the miracle. And after this statement by Mr. Mitsotakis, the dance of demons, the dance of extremists, began. The waste water was released. The Vice-President of the New Democracy came out to say that Mr Apostolakis, whom Mr Mitsotakis has attempted to recruit on such an important issue, is not capable - he says - to bake a coffee. Even if Mr Georgiadis said so to hear that Mr Mitsotakis is not capable of making a cafe - the former Chief of the Armed Forces, please - wanted him to deal with, handle the Civil Protection, he will ask himself whether this shame has been next. I'm afraid it does. And I'll tell you why. You tell me which European country the third in a row - after the first, the second - would not be embarrassing to ask for apologies for racist positions, for anti-Jewish positions and dragged in front of the power sadly to apologise, in this House, in the public debate, is still abusing, insulting and acting in this way. So I repeat, in which country would that not be embarrassing? Finally, gentlemen of the government, it's not all communication. It's not all tactical. You have involved foreign policy in an internal party game, you are leaving the field in Turkey, in northern Macedonia. And if the responsible ones think they'll hide for their historical responsibilities behind the burglar of communication, they're delusional. Communication, then. Mrs. Keramea says she deceived the students from the universities. And the question is if he sleeps quiet at night. Has he not suspected what ditch he has enclosed the development potential, the cultural needs of the region? What does she see in her sleep about that need? The hydrocephalism? Everything starting and ending from Athens? Oligarchic design? Mr Hatzidakis is also coming, who is not here to claim to shut young people out of the redistributive system. And please, Mr. Hatzidakis makes the statement that SYRIZA has been taken over by arrogance. And I ask Mr. Hatzidakis: is there anyone on this side who thought he was a superman? Is there anyone on this side who thought it was Moses? And finally Greece who finds that it also has superman and Moses wonders "I give them sunshine, I make them out, what do the ballasts and they die?" I have news for Mr. Hatzidakis about his ability to predict. They tell him about the transitional needs and the billions, and he has his own predictions. Well, the news I have about Mr. Hatzidakis is that he predicted that there would be no appreciation in the current. The current was increased by 50%. What is Mr Hatzidakis' interpretation of this? That youth has a current, as claimed by this Step? I would like to say, Mr President, that the underestimation of the intelligence of the Greek people is an excitement. You know very well what was following the hurricane.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u121	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u122	I want to say this and I shall end, Mr President. Apparently arrogance does not let the rulers see what exists under underground social currents. And because I started with Mickey Theodorakis, I conclude that "Romenia don't cry on her. Where it seems to be kneeling, that's where it goes up." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u123	Mrs Catherine (Caterina) has the floor now, Papakostas - Palioura from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I think there is no salvation. I really don't think there's any salvation for this country. I heard once again with great attention all the arguments, all the representatives, all the factions, and once again I felt an incredible pessimism about where this country can really lead. From the last speakers on the left, there have been colleagues who have accused us of being responsible for the division in that country. No, ladies and gentlemen. You, the representatives of SYRIZA and the wider Left, are responsible for the division. While Mrs. Kanelli was exactly counting on us, in 2019 an incident came when I was in the election period heading towards the step of a square, a village in my prefecture, in order to address his election speech. So, welcoming the people I was on my way, I also met a group of young children, to whom I pushed my hand and who, to my great surprise, refused to give it to me. When I kindly asked them why they are doing this, their answer was that I do not belong to their party, to your party. And moving toward the step, a left official was threatened against me, saying that I am not allowed to greet their followers. That is what you are, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, broader and non-stop. Deep splitters, deep polarists, hate everything that has to do with consensus, hate everything that has to do with the progress of this country. You think you represent the progressive forces of this place when you really are the most conservative that has always been in this place. The insurance reform, which is coming to our vote today, has been a pre-election commitment. It had been announced by our Prime Minister since 2018. We, the officials and supporters of the New Democracy, have always been completely honest with the Greek people and to date, two years in which we have been governed by this country, not once have we failed to fail what we promised and not even for a moment to deviate from our electoral commitments. Contrary to you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, who - I say once again - all you have done in the past was to deceive the Greek people, to take his vote in order to get the power of the country, promising what you could imagine, which you are doing now, by proving once again that you are deeply inaccurate of learning. Every time a bill comes to this room, the only thing you say is that when you come to power you will abolish it. You have said that almost for the whole of the reforms that we have brought. So we inform you that you will take this off your mind. Firstly, because the Greek people do not forget. And if you bet on a goldfish memory that may have shown in the past, be sure that as long as it goes through our hand we will remind him at every moment who you are. There is no need for much effort on this, of course, because you are doing so yourself. And I'm explaining. When our President came here a week ago, our Prime Minister, and there was the discussion of the leaders of the factions deeply hypocritical as you always begged for consent. And when this supra-party consensus was given through the remodeling, then the masks fell and presented your ideas once again. Mr Apostolakis, who, after all, proved to be inferior to the circumstances. As far as the draft law is concerned, I shall briefly refer to it, since its direction is indeed one of all the colleagues in our group and in our parliamentary group, but also of the Minister and the Undersecretary himself. My parents have lived in Sweden for over twenty - five years. They are now receiving a pension from this country. And I have said this once again, that I grew up in a family where this model of governance we know it very well. A model that for years, for decades, we are all wondering why we have lived in European countries. And there comes a government - not any government, the New Democracy Government - to do what? Legitate self-evident, get good law, good practice and finally put a class in our country's public life. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you will allow me a moment, please. And you don't want this because you invest, as you always do, in chaos, displeasure, frustration. Well, this bill is deeply reformative and it really guarantees that our young people, our children, will actually be able to receive an ancillary pension at some point, which the majority of young people, and even we ourselves, do not know today even if - perhaps ever - will be retired. In this event we want to put an end to it. Some do not obviously understand the seriousness of the demographic problem faced by our country when EUROSTAT studies and surveys tell us that in 2030 our country will be the oldest country in the European Union. Also, while when our insurance system was being established and set up in the 1950s and 60s, the proportion of persons insured to pensioners was 4 to 1, we today are 1.7 to 1. And you once again insist that you do not want to change anything in this place. We will change it all and change it in such a way that it will really work for the welfare of the Greek society, which you despise it deeply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u125	Mrs. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u126	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm closing up with this. Because the SYRIZA spoke yesterday about supposedly arrogant government on the basis of polls, I would like to answer and say that arrogance, ladies and gentlemen, is to cancel the dreams of young people, arrogance is to crush their future for the sake of a small-political deep opposition presence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u127	Twenty thousand...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u128	(...not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u129	Please, I'll talk to you later. Aren't you going to talk later? I'll talk to you later. Mrs. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u130	I shall conclude, Mr President. We don't gamble on the future of our young people. We are here to really be the foundation stone in order to lead them to a better tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, too. Mr Zachariadis Kostas has the floor now. There is a small tolerance, but please understand what it means when we say 'please'. We do not need to stop the process and create problems underneath it. You'll take the floor after you tell them what you want to say. Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u132	I, too, want to thank Mikis Theodorakis, the great Mikis Theodorakis, the composer, the politician, the writer, Mikis of Greece, Mikis the ecumenical one for his offer. We bow to his greatness, his endurance and his creativity. Our sincere condolences to his family, his closet and his companions over the years. Unfortunately, Mr. Hatzidakis is not inside. I remember that cake he was given a present on his birthday by his associates, who was Mr. Hatzidakis superman. SYRIZA didn't do that by themselves. Where is Mr Hatzidakis, the Superman, now to tell us about electricity prices? How the current rises in Greece, how it rises in other European countries. And why this is happening. Because in Greece it is going up more than the other European countries. The ECONOMIST conference in 2020 said prices would fall. Mr. Hatzidakis said it. Its speech at the ECONOMIST conference in September 2020. Didn't he have a picture? She had no idea? Was he lying? I don't know. But whatever the people and the middle class are paying for this failed policy and that idealism of Mr Hatzidakis. Precision as an international phenomenon, accuracy as a result of the idea of this government. Will you now tell me what this has to do with the bill we're discussing? They are related to the Minister leading the portfolio proposed by the bill. Next act in the drama with this precision in electricity and gas and fuel and everything. A minimum wage increase in 2021 0%, 2% in 2022, although you, Admiral, have made half of the New Democracy's programme, you said it would be twice the growth per year. I mean, it should go up for this year of 7%, if we go to 3.5%, and then 12%, if we go to 6%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u133	We didn't know about the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u134	You didn't know the pandemic, but now you know it. What's the answer to the accuracy? The answer is that the poor and weak citizens will pay it, that their income will shrink. That's how you love middle class! These are the good things for the economy! So now there's a question coming in. What if in insurance is Mr Hatzidakis' predictions as well as energy? What if he falls out so far? First of all, what is the reason for this change? I remember Mr Brutsis in the winter of 2020 who came here and from this Step with a intense look at us swinging a life insurance report and sent ten press releases every day to all the media. Is the sustainability report that Mr Brutsis has been hailing us with pride? This report, I remind you, because we read the reports, also had the signature of Mr Tsakloglu's Minister from the University of Economics. In other words, it is not possible for Brutsis and Mr. Tsakloglou to be right at the University of Economics and Mr. Hadjidakis, with Mr. Tsakloglou, Secretary of State. Has she changed the country's demographics in 15 months? Is there a report, Mrs Michaelidou, for this reason that within 15 months, the country's demographic has collapsed, so we need a new insurance policy? There's a big question here. How much does this change cost? The SYRIZA Eurogroup has put a question to the European Commission to cost it. The people of my generation, up to thirty-five years old, will pay with your own system two insurance, one individual pigeon and two existing pensions through taxation. The draft also describes a third potential case. If the system because of financial instability collapses the state - who the state is, we - guarantee the level of pensions. How? Through taxes. So two, up to three insurance, my generation will pay for one. Do we have a good insurance system today? In my opinion, we have one of the best in Europe. The system of capitalisation also redistributes and rewards individual effort. So what's the matter? Why, while we have a good system, things aren't right? Because we still have a tax evasion because we still have a black job, because we still have - and are the abrupts of the bankruptcy of 2008 - high unemployment, because we have low wages and low contributions, because we have unpaid and underpaid overtime and therefore low contributions. This has been the problem of the insurance system in Greece for decades. This was the great reform that the country had to make in the 1990s, not to steal. Don't steal! Otherwise, the system didn't have the wrong architecture. That's a good architecture. So who's gonna pay these tens of billions by 2070? Others say it's from 55 billion others say up to 75 billion. The Greek people will pay for it. You're loading the public debt. You are undermining the sustainability of public debt. After 2008 we all have to draw some conclusions in this country. Nobody can play with public debt. It's not just the 120 million you write a year. If that is what you sum up and with the prospect of getting much more. You say, but this is the Swedish system. What unemployment, really, does Sweden have? What's Sweden doing to escape? What's Sweden's public debt? What currency does Sweden have? What other resources finance Sweden's insurance system? Greece, unfortunately, is not Sweden and that is not the case in Sweden. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute, Mr. President. Today we pay the pensions of our parents and grandparents. From tomorrow money worked and paid in Greece, with your own plan, you will make it abroad. Business in Greece, money in Greece, investment abroad. Patriotism of the penny! In terms of inequality. Will everyone be able to save this unemployment? Will everyone be able to retire? Those who are strong will become even stronger and those who find it difficult will go even lower. When we say that we are in a society, we do not mean that we are units in a society. Everyone walks alone in life, but in a context as a whole. That's why it's called an insurance system to create a sense of security. Otherwise, it wouldn't be called insurance. It would be called a saver. It'd be called an individual. So because man has the need for security through collectiveism and through solidarity, that's why people thought and built insurance systems. Otherwise, they'd build "collective" systems. Admiral - I look at you in front of me - there has been a reshape for some ten days. It's not closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u136	I'll be in ten seconds, Mr. President. I won't abuse your tolerance. They have heard terrible indiscretions about people who have served the army from positions of responsibility. It is not good for the homeland, the people who serve, whatever opinion we have, use them, exploit them, project them or throw them away. This is a responsibility for all the sides of the House. And I tell you personally because I know that you have greater sensitivity and that you will carry it where you need to. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that it has just been tabled by the Change in voting request in principle, on all Articles and Amendments Nos 1045 and 1052, which will take place immediately after the debate on the draft law has been concluded. We are now continuing with Mrs. Panagiou Poulou from SYRIZA. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to say goodbye to our great music composer Mikis Theodorakis who, with his work and his personal attitude, expressed the struggles, the struggles, the passions, the sensations and the hopes of our people for more than half a century. His work, his songs will always accompany us. Ladies and gentlemen, who would have expected this August this year's fire-fighting operation to be closed by a shipwreck, with the unprecedented wreck of last year's infinite remodeling for which the Prime Minister himself is responsible. This is precisely the situation in which this bill is brought into plenary, with the government in panic, since it does not even manage to reconstruct effectively, how much more to govern effectively and to respond to the great needs of society. Mr. Mitsotakis tried to reduce damage from the destructive management of fires and pandemics, but all he could do was cause even greater damage. Because the result of this intimidation attempt was not, in the end, the strengthening of the government, nor the undermining of the Officerial Reconciliation, as he sought Maximos with his incredible medals and repatriations around the face of the new Minister for Civil Protection. But that is what happens to a Prime Minister when he reshapes with a view not to serving the public interest, but to cheap communication, maintaining internal-party balances, as well as to the ministries of the chosen oligarchs, the official donors of the government. Finally, the most important result of the alleged remodeling was that the extreme right-wing change of the Government of New Democracy, due to the """LAOS", should go further by entrusting the Ministry of Health to an invader. Amid a fourth wave and serious mutations that employ the global scientific community, a grim reality of the decomposition of the National Health System is recorded in our country. Six thousand sanitary on suspension of work, four thousand health workers in hostage, suspension of permits for purified sanitary workers from the beginning of the pandemic, resignation of intensive scientists in Rethymno, WTODN in pandemic mobilisations with workers currently outside the Ministry of Health and, of course, outside the House and the rest at the gates of our hospitals. Also, the workers in institutions and in the social services of the municipalities in "Help to Home" and other services are at work precarious because of the mandatoryity imposed by New Democracy's punishable policy. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill marks the third major reform of the Mitsotakis Government in the three-way residence - work - insurance. The goal of the Mitsotakis government is to demolition these three pillars that supported the post-war economic and social progress of Greece and its sale to the big private interests. Since the introduction of the new bankruptcy code with the effective abolition of the protection of first residence and after the dismantling of work by the removal of the eight-hour series, it is now necessary to deregulation of social security by introducing the capitalisation system into subsidiary insurance. Everything that was about the previous generations is now being played in the dice of markets, with again lost young people and young people in our country who will pay for the broken New Democracy policy, those who will not be able to study in universities because the "cutter" Kerameos, the minimum import base, threw them out or send them to private colleges, those who will work more than eight hours a day and pay off, those who will not have a guaranteed pension since their insurance contributions will be gambled on international markets. It is precisely because this is the big difference between the distribution system and the capitalist system: the first is based on social solidarity and is guaranteed by the contributions of the workers concerned and as such is protected by the Constitution, and the second depends on the doubtful return on investment made by these contributions. And we all remember from the bitter experience of structured bonds how brilliant the performance of the governments of the New Democracy are in gambling insurance contributions. In order to achieve your goals, however, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you do not hesitate to treat falsehood, since you tell us with a lot of hypocrisy that turning to capitalisation is necessary because there is a question of the sustainability of the distribution of the social security system, while you know that the SYRIZA government since 2016 has guaranteed its viability by 2070, something that has been recognised not only by European institutions but also by the proportionate studies of Mr. Tsakloglu, who submitted to Parliament your previous leadership of the Ministry of Labour, your colleague Mr. Brutsis, to confirm the viability of the system. Decide who is telling us the truth in the end: the former Minister or the current minister? Because they're both out of the question. You are also telling us that the financial cost of transition to the new system will be small, but the study of the National Analogue Authority shows that this will be more than EUR 70 billion. How are you going to cover it? But of course by handing the so-called social dividend, in 0.5% of GDP committed by SYRIZA to meet the needs of the low-pensioners, and now available to fund your unacceptable experiments through the new agency, the Capital Insurance Fund, the TEC. Such a catastrophic effect will also be on the public debt you estimate to increase by 49% after 2040. In other words, all the sacrifices made by the Greek people in the hard years of the memoranda of government debt are being threatened. In addition, you are saying that we are wrongly concerned, because youth supplementary pensions will be guaranteed until their contributions are refunded plus inflation. So you've been putting the bar very low from the start. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You are avoiding the fact that these pensions - I am ending, Mr President, in one minute - will be much smaller than the current pensions from the distribution system. A huge budgetary cost of transition will have already been paid, just so that tomorrow's pensioners can finally receive smaller pensions. The system that you have introduced, Mr Ministers, is a palace built in sand since its performance depends on so many unstable factors or is exposed to so many risks of instability in the global economy. It is certain that once again the state budget will be called upon to cover the poor returns of your investments. Again, the Greek taxpayers will be invited to cover again the loss of your insurance gambling. That is why the capitalisation system is nothing but an exception to the rule of insurance systems in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis Government beats social solidarity in every form and its manifestation, the social solidarity that is the foundation of sustainable economic and social development. That is why the distribution system of social security based precisely on solidarity between generations, between workers, is also in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u139	Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u140	I shall conclude, Mr President. Society will stand against the plans of apprentice magicians of outdated neoliberalism and will highlight the country's next progressive government that will ensure a fair and sustainable insurance system. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u141	Mr Emmanuel Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, the government continues its ruthless attack on the workers. At its forefront now is subsidiary insurance. And it is in full correspondence with the attack on public health, on public education, on wages, on fixed working time, on collective agreements, on change to the worst in industrial relations. Invoke the demographic problem to justify this reinsurance crime. Who created the demographic problem? Is it a divine punishment? Is this our root evil? What exactly? Who created this problem? You created it, all the governments over time and the rotten system you serve. Obviously, it's not a Greek phenomenon. It also applies to other capitalist countries. Is that a problem coming on its own? Obviously not. It is directly linked to terms of work and life, especially young people. The choice of a new couple to create his own family depends on a number of economic, social factors that put objective obstacles to their decision. The demographic problem arises from the difficulty of satisfying basic social needs, survival needs, housing, food, clothing, water, health, welfare, raising children, educating them. Why do these difficulties and unfulfilled dreams of new couples exist? It's a question. The generalised insecurity of the majority of young people in conditions of generalization of flexible forms of employment, breaks in hours, four hours, wandering between unemployment and short-term paid work programmes, uninsured work is a major obstacle. So you, who have created the demographics and never solved it, despite the findings of this House - remember them - and the greetings, today you are invoking it to justify the crime. The fairest and most honest thing is to tell the truth. What's the truth? That your goal is to relieve capitalists completely of the non-wage costs, that is to say, the obligation to return part of the unpaid work, the stolen gains through employee contributions and a second objective to direct these huge reserves, that is, the blood and sweat of the workers, to fund capitalists' investments for green growth, the digital economy and go by saying. The dismantling of subsidiary insurance is not an innovation of the government, nor even a Greek patent. It comes from far away, and this is the covetous desire for capital on every side of the planet. Nor is it a birth of a neoliberal government, the New Democracy Government, nor is it an exception to a European normality, as SYRIZA claims. Your nest is all caught up in this insurance crime. So we should remind the workers that since 1992 it has been the Siufas law that the seeds have entered the three-phase insurance system. To remind you in 1996, the IOBE proposed by the three-phase pension system, which was exactly like that of Chile, which was also described as the 'Mercenes' of the insurance systems of the thousands of junta. Let us remind you in 1997, the PASOK government is making the same proposal of the three pens, of the three levels of pension. It is the year of the Sprau report in 1997, of the Committee of Wise Men that the PASOK had made. In this report, it was supported by the Yankisi bill and was finally taken under the great workers' struggles at that time. This was the basis of all reforms of the present day by neoliberal, social-democratic governments of the New Democracy, PASOK, Reppa, Petralia, Koutromani, Brutsis, to reach the law of the "fisher" Katrugalou that laid the foundations for the completion of the "crime" in social security. It is challenged to hear from a minister's lips that by gaming - it is, of course, challenging, but it is true - the employees' contributions are created, he says, capital to invest in the Greek economy for its development. It's true, that's it. But it's half the truth. The clearer it was formulated by Gabriel Bernardino, President of the European Parliament's Advisory Body, that the key future challenges include transition to sustainability, climate change and digital transformation. The insurance and pensions sector must be part of the solution. So the essence is one. You legislate on the theft of the sweaty decades of workers who are billions of euros and you give them a gift to the capital. When industrialists reminded us that the reserves of pension and insurance companies that are invested on the capital market account for only 8% of GDP, compared with an average of 82% in the European Union, what did they mean? They meant to play the world's savings on the stock market, as you played the 3.5 billion in 1999-2002 that winged wings overnight and ended up in the capitalists' pockets. The money of the world, Mr. Chacloglu. That's it. Who listens to this and doesn't really explode? Here, if it is the scandal of scandals and even legal. And to deceive the insured, especially young people, of the actual targets of the bill, you sell the story that the capitalisation system is the response to the dangers of ageing the population. But the very concept of capitalisation disguises you. Each worker will have an individual pigeon to which his contributions will enter and which can't even touch him, that is to say break him and see what's inside. The ending? The insured will know what contributions he'll make, but he won't know or even be able to guarantee him if and how much pension he gets. Where are those atomic buttons going? In a very large pound called "capital pound", with the absolute right to gamble without having to return it to the insured and with the risk of being lost, i.e. making contributions and finally making air pensions undone. We will not forget the well-known shades of ENRON, MAXGUEL's overseas, or the "ASP PROMOTION", nor of course the recent "CITY INSURANCE", a large insurance company that left an uncovered hundred and eighty thousand owners of cars. So these are the results of the risk and gambling you're asking us to invest. So that's the capitalisation system. The Communist Party of Greece has submitted its proposal several times and is struggling for public, single, universal, compulsory social security. No one has that kind of proposal. Nobody. And we face social security as the largest of the workers' conquests, in order to ensure decent pensions and human care and benefits to meet modern needs. Why? Because workers have the right to live longer, they have worked on them, they deserve to rest and take the time they want. In any case, the JRC is not just voting against, but we will give the battle together with the people, along with the working class, to suppress this bill and, of course, to fight for another different socio-economic system, so that the people can actually find their atonement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u143	We are now continuing with Mr Evangelos Liakos from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position, I would like to stand by this very difficult summer. The recent fires have been of unprecedented intensity, which shows that the climate crisis is also present in our homeland. And while most of them in Greek territory were dealt with successfully, we did not succeed in some of them. My region, West Attica, together with Evia, was the two regions that suffered the greatest devastating consequences. And while all of us in the West Attica are grateful that we did not mourn our fellow humans, there are many things to do to help the whole region in its rebooting, but also to shield against future natural disasters. Western Attica has suffered quite enough, even mourning our neighbors in the floods of Mandra in 2017. The same municipality, in fact, was the one who, immediately and in solidarity, offered...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u145	To continue with Mr. Nikos Pappa from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Today, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are saying farewell to Mickey of the horn, to Racism, to Lambrakidon, to Mickey, to memorialize all the great poets and bring generations and generations of Greeks in contact with the giants of Greek poetry. Our debt is that future generations have this possibility and this fascinating opportunity with these marvels of art come in contact. The insurance system, ladies and gentlemen, is not a secondary issue of policy, it is central, because it determines the redistribution of income and now also in the future. Social security systems have two basic features: endogenous solidarity and intergenerational solidarity. Endogenous solidarity means that social security systems get from those who have the potential and deliver them universally. Of course they also have intergenerational solidarity. Intergenerational solidarity means that today's generations are committed to paying the pensions for those who have withdrawn from the labour market, Professor, Minister, and are committed to the promise that future generations will also pay their pensions when it comes to retiring them. The system you enter does not have one of the two features and it is neither social nor insurance. It is not socially because it has an individual account as its foundation. I was surprised to hear you say that I didn't really expect you to say that it's not privatization. This is privatization, individual accounts. Did either of us say that the funds' reserves should not be invested? In fact, you have also brought examples of investments made by insurance funds that are positive to large infrastructures, to modernise infrastructures, to investments that bear permanent and stable incomes. He's not against it. The philosophy, the fundamental change that you make here is that you go to the “save self-sacrificing one”. The EKKA system, when we have introduced it as much as you slander it, has no meaning and I am sorry to hear from other criticisms that are is isotopic - had the slogan "all together stronger" and you go to "the saved one". This is the mutation for which we are criticizing and criticising you. There's days like this that won't let us sanctify. Do you know what happens these days in Chile, Mr. Chacloglu? End of July, line endless for the third time to get people to raise money from their insurance bills. The private system of Hill of Pinochet, a colleague of your New Democracy MEP, called it the dictator's name once, to start the debate in Greece on insurance. Urea endless, writes an article in "BLOOMBERG" and has pictures of tails. It says that people have made 30 billion in the coroner from their insurance programs and the new break-up of the coconut, they're going for 50 billion. That's reality. So, what's that? It is a system which is absolutely inappropriate to protect people's incomes when we have major disturbances. That's the point. And you enter it here, always invoking it, and that makes me very impressed by your side at least - that is, by people who do not have the potential to become economical, okay, to understand that here they reproduce the argument - how do you come to the argument of population ageing? I don't get it. The number of employees is decreasing compared to pensioners, isn't it? Isn't that the problem? Yes, sir. If that's the problem, what difference does it make if we have a private or public system, if we have individual accounts? It doesn't matter. Pensioners in both systems, Mr Tsakloglu - and I call for your scientific competence, and I ask you to confirm that - have promises to consume a future product. If you reduce the ability of an economy to produce, they will have less to receive, let alone if the social contract that binds the generations together is dissolved. And you come, because you know, as a scientist, that this argument, which, unfortunately, your MPs are easily reproducing, is a waste of time. You can tell us that this is where we will have thirty years of 6% returns. This isn't happening anywhere. It hasn't happened anywhere. The examples we see on television to say that it will have a greater subsidiary with the privatisation of the insured are based on this assumption. You must understand, then, that we are not in 1994, Athens is not Santiago of Chile. Greeks cannot and should not play their future in dice. You have to understand that the country cannot become an endless betting office, to understand that risk cannot be a way of life. You are currently introducing a regulation that we have made politically clear to you that it will not survive, but that as people with political responsibility and as scientists, you should look out the window for what is happening in the world. And right now that we are talking where all these systems have been implemented, people are experiencing disasters that are normal. And you come here to introduce this arrangement, abolishing the third pension and introducing a factor of fundamental uncertainty into a system for which you said it was sustainable. Who are the beneficiaries, then, of this? Who are the beneficiaries? Are those who are going to be paid a commission for the management of these funds, Mr. Chacloglu? Do they only have any reason to convince us that 3 billion supplementary pensions per year should be placed in their own portfolios to move them out at once and abroad, of course? So this prospect must be overthrown and overthrown, I would say to you with a new social contract, which is guaranteed by the democratic party and which has the foundation of protection, care and dignity for all, and not just for those who can buy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, may I have the floor to give an explanation?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u149	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u150	I will not go into all the other things Mr Pappas has said, but I would like to refer to what many Members have said in this House: 'I paid my contributions'. The 'pay my contributions' to a distribution system - understand one thing - goes for the payment of the current pensioners. Say that our country is a rich country, no one does tax evasion, everything is pink, but we decide not to have children at all. For the last generation there's nothing at all about retirement. That's the demographic risk, Mr. Poppa. I didn't say we stopped having kids.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u151	But, with privatisation, we're gonna have more kids?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u152	I didn't say we stopped having kids. That thing I'm telling you is in that very direction...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u153	You're making assumptions...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u155	It's in that direction and if he does something here, it says that these contributions here put them somewhere else to retire. That's the simplest. You understand very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Minister. My colleague Mr. Liakos is not here. We will continue with Mr. Kollia Konstantinos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Brahati has been the favorite destination for many years, the refuge of the great and unsurpassed Mikis Theodorakis. Corinthia greets him with deep grief, honor and respect. Ladies and gentlemen, with the introduction and implementation of this draft law, we welcome and strengthen a complete, comprehensive and, above all, progressive social security model. We all know that Greece still has the highest pension expenditure as a percentage of GDP among the euro area countries, as well as the highest percentage of state subsidies to cover pensions. Our country's insurance system is now bleeding and it needs as much as ever a bold and deep reform. Despite the communication fanatics and the ideological obsessions of Officer Response, the creation of a capitalisation pillar for the supplementary pensions of young workers, as promoted by the government, leaves a tangible mark. I shall refer briefly to the most important aspects of this draft law. The Capital Insurance Fund will be administered by certified professionals. It will work, by applying practices and an investment philosophy in the private economy, leading to significantly higher supplementary pensions for all young insured persons and providing better control over final pensions. The main feature of the new system is that individual accounts are created - buttons from which the future pensions of young workers will be paid. In accordance with Article 6, the arrangement will necessarily include new entrants on the labour market, i.e. persons taking over employment from 1 January 2022 and optionally those who have not completed the thirty-fifth year of their age and who decide to join the new system. Instead, the contributions of young people to be used to pay the supplementary pension for the current pensioners will be saved and invested, creating a reserve from which their future pensions will be paid. It is therefore clear that each insured person in this country will henceforth have the privilege of fully penetrating the benefit of his own contributions. It should be noted that as much as opposition is used in an orderly manner, it uses the notorious account of supposed privatization in reality with this reform, the institutional and public nature of subsidiary insurance is undeniably maintained. But can you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, again create an artificial tension, and you who throw the country on the rocks with your ideas, experiments and insurmountable populism? Now you are all in favour of pensioners and their interests, but you have forgotten what happened to pensioners in your day. Twenty-two overall cuts since 2016 with the Katrugalou law. Did you forget that two hundred and fifty thousand pensioners lost 50% of their supplementary pensions? Did you forget that you cut the CSR from three hundred thousand micro-retired people and led them to poverty and impoverishment? Or don't you remember that with the 50-five-year-old limit on widow's pensions you literally flew on the street to widows with two and three children? You may have suffered political amnesia, but retired people will never forget it. I wonder what SYRIZA wants for young people. Just be numbers and governments decide about them without them? To repeat the mistakes that have been made in the insurance system for years? Is that SYRIZA's recipe against progress and common sense? Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to highlight two important state guarantees contained in today's bill. Firstly, the state guarantees that nothing will change at all for the current insured. Any financial costs created in the current system will be covered by the budget so that the level of supplementary pensions of the current members is not affected at all. Secondly, as far as the new insured persons are concerned, the insurance fee explicitly provided for in Article 60 ‘Security guarantee for non-negative return’, which means that the insured persons of the new system will be protected against any extreme fluctuations in the markets and receive a pension corresponding to their contributions plus inflation. So what kind of reason is this what SYRIZA colleagues are talking about when there is a State guarantee and the contributions are secured in real terms? The strategy to be followed for the fund's investments also plays a catalytic role. This is regulated in Article 47 with the assets of the fund invested in the best interests of both the insured and the beneficiaries and always on the basis of prudent management and economic development. A limited number of carefully designed investment portfolios will be created where by choice of the insured person and according to its profile the funds of its insurance portfolio will be invested. Let me also turn to another parameter. SYRIZA states falsifiedly that the management of the fund which will manage the contributions of the young insured has irresponsible but this complaint is degraded by Article 19 of the bill itself, according to which members of the Board of Directors of the new fund will be persecuted for both fraud and gross negligence. So where did SYRIZA see the impunity? Another thing, in this article, we provide greater responsibility for the members of the Board of Directors since there is provision for prosecution, for fraud and for serious negligence, and with the corresponding article 33 of Law 4289 on SYRIZA for the responsibilities of members of the Board of Directors of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, there is only a clear prostitution for fraud. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is not simply regrettable, it is nationally detrimental to the major overturns that lead to benefits for the country that there is a portion of the voiced politicians who pervert and misinform only to criticise the political opponent. In order to become Europe, we must follow Europe's policies without party bumpers with vision and with a look at progress, and that is what we are trying today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u158	Mr Ioannis Muzalas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too must testify to my grief for the incredible damage we have suffered with the loss of Theodorakis, for us in our partner Theodorakis. His work remains, his work disciplined us, we grew up with it. We will try new generations to grow, to breast-feed, to man in this work. As a Member for the first time I used to start or finish my speeches, gentlemen of the Opposition, saying, 'You are not ashamed?' I quickly concluded that you're not ashamed. You're running lies based on lie. When you have all the propaganda mechanism with you, it takes a long time to appear in society, it looks in different phases, in different populations, and you go on like this all the time. You went out and told us that this year you have taken standard fire measures. After two months, all Greece burned down. You told us we had seventy flying in. Then - fortunately you're fighting with each other - we've got twenty flying. For the second time, we'd have a normal summer at last, but the epidemic isn't even on her pic.twitter. Conditions are tragic, you have taken no measure of what you should take, you have created a split with vaccines, you use pandemic to drive the privatisation of the National Health System and you will show this along the way, and get out in strike mobilisations for vaccines a sector that has been vaccinated by 90%. It's not happening in the Army, it's not happening to the priests, it's not happening to the police. Let me tell you here a comedian about the police. In the southern suburbs, the police sent the police chief and asked for clarifications because when they go into the stores to check their employees are calling for a vaccine certificate and requesting identification and entering the system to see if the police officer who wants to enter the store has been vaccinated or not. And the police are writing how they should react in these cases. If you tell us, we'll find out. In education was SYRIZA populism, but twenty thousand young children with many dreams you cut their dreams off. We talked about it here and you told us populists. One out of three kids stays out of childhood. The schools will open up in the same way as they opened last year and last year. We don't know if you're going to give any more ice cubes. The thirteenth pension wouldn't be cut, but it was cut. At work it was abolished eight hours to gather olives. Increase 2% since 2022 but Golden Boys increase 100% and 150%. The bankruptcy code throws the middlemen on the road and you reached a point where you can no longer suspend him. You have your own pressure, too. PPC would not increase power, but 50% increase in the most expensive electricity in Europe. Olympiacos would cease to be the state monopoly, build three hospitals with this money and develop competition. You closed seven hospitals, merged ten, built a private monopoly. I'll see you in tomorrow's debate. In northern Macedonia the lies you have lied about and you are bound now we don't have to tell you. Mr. Dendias can tell you very well. Your indulgence and your indifference to Mr. Apostolakis is indicative. And today, with this past, you come to bring the insurance policy, which will save an insurance system that you said a few months ago, for the next seventy years, is not in danger, and that is what the European Union said. And what are you doing? You're practically privatising the insurance system by lying. The National Accounting Authority says that the average subsidiary will increase by 15% over time, and you say the reverse. It says that your own system will be reduced by 35%, and you say otherwise. The transport costs of 56 to 72 million will be covered, you say, by the revenue that this change will bring, which IOBE does not accept. On the contrary, it comes out that taxpayers will pay twice: and a loss for their pensions and a charge of 2.7 billion a year from 2030, 1.5 to 2030 and a debt of 49%. Cutting off the social dividend, the thirteenth partial pension that we gave and throwing 1 billion into the market in conditions of crisis to support an insurance policy that you're telling us will take a bullet, it doesn't need anything, but you're cutting it off. This government does not gamble, as the Greek people do not remember structured bonds, they do not remember mortgage bonds, they do not remember "ASP PROMOTION", they do not remember "NATIONAL SAFALIC". We're messes. We don't remember anything about the Greeks. You can say whatever you want. The public guarantee is guaranteed, and that must be alleviated to us. If it does not go well in seventy years' time - you guarantee it will go well - if it does not go well, then we will pay taxes so that the insured can get what they gave in a blurred way. Transparency zero. The Minister appoints those who manage the money. There is an impunity and immunity beforehand, to protect what and how. You've done this before. Demographic has nothing to do with it. Allow me. I'm not a lawyer, I'm not an economist, I'm a gynecologist. The pension is determined by how many people work and how many are retired. Whether it's a hundred thousand or fifty thousand has nothing to do with it. But you are using the demographics that you have led to this situation through your policies to scare the Greeks and to think that with the individual pigeon they will be able to avoid something. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Widows, crippled men, deaths before their time, nothing. At the moment, I also think that the semantic ward of the New Democracy is trying to repeat the 'wonder' - in quotes - on the stock exchange, because there will be a huge transfer of funds to capital management companies and stock exchanges, which this time will also be abroad. It was analysed by other colleagues. We'll work here. They'll go abroad. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a minute. I have a speciality with women as a gynecologist. I'll say that, and I'll stop. Look, there is in the insurance systems throughout Europe a peculiarity in relation to the safety of women who most women and women do not know about it. In Greece, women's pensions for the same years of work are 24% less and they are among the lowest in Europe. Luxemburg is 32%. In Germany I think 28%. This is because of the difference in pay between sexes and years of work. In the capitalist system, this will increase and we risk going to 38% difference between a man's pension and a woman's pension, because the capitalisation system takes into account the life expectancy and with a greater survival expectancy women will have a much smaller pension even for the same years of work and the same wage. I would like to say about the arrogance 'the people voted for you'. You vote for them yourself. You're voting for everything on your own. Some Greek Solution and some parts of your bills vote for some of the Change Movement. You are a parliamentary majority that socially votes against everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Comrade, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u161	Yes, you're right, Mr. Comrade, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u162	I know I'm right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u163	Well, one last thing. Remember the Greeks if they have friends who in times of well-being invested in mutual funds and told us what they have now. That's what you're going to do. It's time you left. It's time we kick you out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u165	We are asking the other parties of democratic opposition to try and stop this catastrophe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u166	Thank you. Well, it's quite right for the officers to check on the cops to see if they've been vaccinated. Because if they haven't been vaccinated, they shouldn't be in the store.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u167	I agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u168	Absolutely. And there he will show whether those who do control really have all the conditions. Mr Sedetakis Maximos from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, there's one way to go, and that's the election. I do not understand how you mean'stop you' and I do not understand how you went through the laws. There is a declarant, there is a Parliamentary Republic, which has a procedure. If you want to overthrow her, that's another matter. Ladies and gentlemen, after the end of World War II Greece was a destroyed country. The civil war that followed consisted of what the Nazi occupation had left standing. There is a huge loss of life and infrastructure and another lost chance of reconstruction along with the rest of Europe. Little kids went out on their way to work, adults went to the hotel. Social security with a redistributive character emerged as a social need. He responded to a cruel reality. Those who were able to work should also contribute to the reconstruction of the country and the restoration of basic infrastructure, but also to the care of those who have taken up sacrifices in a free home. That's where the employee's contribution money was going, they weren't going to some individual pigeon that they would make use of when their working life was being completed. For their own pensions, young workers would pay by means of their contributions, that is, their children, as they would pay for their parents. Ladies and gentlemen, the distribution of insurance has literally saved the country. She gave her the opportunity to regenerate. For decades, however, it had to be adjusted. It had to be adapted to demographic ageing and improvement of life expectancy. It had to be adapted to the upgrading of the social state. Did we make the necessary adjustment at the right time? Unfortunately, no. A number of factors canceled it. Obviously today, we are not discussing liability charge. These have already been charged. What we are discussing today is action and the necessary adaptation, but if all of us are to understand something very simple, which we have not been able to understand for years, that is, the distribution system that we have had to date is sustainable and is an option for a state only when many workers finance pensions for a few pensioners. But this has not been the case for many years now. And at the beginning of the system the proportion of retired workers was 6 to 1 or even 7 to 1. Today he approaches one to one. It's obvious that this account doesn't come out. The child who works cannot pay the parent's pension. He must live and care for his own pension too, so that this does not in turn affect his own child. As long as we do not find a solution to this equation, so long as the earnings of young workers are pressured, so much less pensions, so much more public debt will increase, as pension costs and insurance contributions have not been covered by loans by mortgages on the future of the next generations. We must therefore allow experts to give the solution, to trust them and to implement it. The present government has the political will and the courage to do so. He commissioned finding the solution to three well-known bodies: the National Analogue Authority, IOBE and DPRKH. The bill we are discussing was drawn up on the basis of their own conclusions. And if there is any criticism from the Opposition, what we have not seen exists is an alternative proposal. Rather, in order to be precise, we have lived in rule SYRIZA with the famous Katorugalo law and the known results. SYRIZA governance was another bad circumstance in the course of the insurance system and it is not possible for some to continue to rally the famous chips, to see the sale as a sale and investment as a gambling game. They'll have to get serious sometime. And of course it is not meant to risk pension cuts. In in-depth terms the cost of transition, as the phrase says, is precisely because pension cuts in the existing system are not to be made. This is the first guarantee provided for in Article 60 of this draft law. The second guarantee is to the members of the new system. They will receive a pension which corresponds to a minimum of the amount of contributions they have paid in real terms, i.e. taking into account the effect of inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the Greek political system and, of course, the current government, the necessary change to take place gradually with the minimal losses. That's why we're talking about adjustment. That is why we are talking about a gradual transition from the distribution system to the capitalist system. That's why we're talking about transition costs. We are therefore starting the reform by gradually converting subsidiary insurance from distribution to capitalising. We are saying this clearly. The reform only concerns subsidiary insurance and new workers. The main pension remains as it is. We are also saying clearly that subsidiary insurance is not compulsory for active workers. It is up to the state to convince young workers to trust the Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund that will be created, to protect their money and to guarantee them a decent pension. As long as young workers do not trust social security, they are inconsistent with the payment of contributions, and the system is aimed at avoiding the joint agreement of an employee. In general, I would say that it is up to the state to convince the citizens to trust the insurance system again. And this is a challenge that we all have to respond responsibly. It's our debt to our children and grandchildren. It is our duty to the generation of the Greeks represented by the great Greek Mikis Theodorakis who left us today. A generation that struggled for justice the sun the notion of the unity of the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u170	Thank you for the time. We are now continuing with Mrs. Merope Jufi from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today brings the false title 'Security reform for the new generation', distorting words and meanings, referring to names that declare prevention, care and concern. It is as misleading as the Hatzidakis Ridiculous Bill, which supposedly protects work. Once again, the Government of New Democracy is consciously distorting the concepts and disinforming it in order to conceal its willingness to undermine its insurance system and redistributive character. An insurance system - because we have heard a lot today - which has been trampled over by the governments of PASOK and New Democracy who have been ruthlessly tested during the memorial period and has been upright thanks to the sacrifices of the insured and the targeted interventions of the SYRIZA Government that has made it viable despite its weaknesses, in accordance with the approval of the European Commission and the scientific opinion of Mr Tsakloglu who reiterated it here today from the Step of the House. But today, although it is sustainable, the Mitsotakis Government is coming to do what it knows well. To level its public and social character by focusing on social solidarity and by canceling the principle of solidarity between generations. Our Prime Minister has made it clear that we are not all the same and we are not all equal. This is his worldview and his perception of society. And he doesn't miss an opportunity to remind us of it or even to show it to us, as in the case of his trip to the United States to register his daughter at an expensive university when thousands of students were left out of the Greek public higher education institutions because of the system he prepared together with Mrs. Kerameos. Thus, with the insurance system of millions of workers it employs neoliberal models that play in dice and stock markets the future of the next generations. The only objective is to maximise the profit with any risk that this entails. Tsakloglu has told us today that his applications in the countries of Eastern Europe and Latin America have led to social ruins and the international cost of failing the capitalist systems is $3.5 trillion worldwide. However, they insist and ask: 'What are we going to do about the demographic problem facing our country?' We've heard a lot of locations. Absolute hypocrisy. Both our rapporteur, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, and Mrs Theano Fotio, have pointed out that any positive approach to the issue requires new, decent, well-paid jobs so that the new generation can imagine itself in social security and well-being conditions that go ahead and make a family. Strong social support networks are needed, especially for young women, missing nursing stations, school meals that have been taken, generous care services for children and mother. It takes serious policies to integrate and integrate refugees and immigrants, as other European countries have done. In other words, your government is hosting us, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that you have signed them out of the Chamber's Interparliamentary Committee on Population. On the contrary, with the law of Hatzidakis and the closure of the eye to the forces of the market for immunity, you encroach on young people and young people in constant economic and labour precariousness. And now you also seal the insurance uncertainty by handing social security to the financial markets and investment returns. You have obviously not forgotten the scandal of structured bonds, the conclusion of the insurance funds. They have also repeated them to you today many times. How can you guarantee that this will never happen again? You're cynical. You do not care that these investments, as you call them, are exposed to the risk of purchases and will not thrive. What does that mean? Whatever pensioners decide to get their contributions fully, their pension will be lower than the redistributive pension. This is because the amount of the return will depend on the expectation of life and fine letters in the contracts of investment products that are deliberately hidden from the government propaganda. There has of course been a lot of discussion about the cost of transition. There is no doubt that it is too high: EUR 56 billion. It can reach all 74 billion euros. And the most worrying thing is that this is directly dependent on the performance of capital and the financial situation. What will happen, for example, if there is a new long-term crisis? Will the state be called to pay twice? Who's going to guarantee this? And who will guarantee what will be done to cover the costs of the most vulnerable, the disability and death pensions? We also have not received a reply to finance this transition cost. European and international literature, experience and practice show that this is a process of uncertain and precarious, especially for a country like ours that aims to reduce the deficit while growth indicators are low. The overall project can be absolutely disastrous for the future of insured persons. We are once again telling you that public social security is a good rewarding, universal, compulsory, public, institutionally guaranteed and transgenic. Market mechanisms and private interests do not have a place in social security. In the market perception of society, which the New Democracy has a zealous view of, I regret to say, the unemployed person, who faces difficulties, is unnecessary as non-productive and therefore unnecessary for health, education and social security expenditure. The more Mr. Hatzidakis cares about the new generation, the more Mrs. Kerameos cares about the new generation, the more Mrs. Kerameos hijacked forty thousand children from the universities to deliver them to private colleges' clienteles. There is no need for either a minimum basis for introduction or criteria of excellence. Only the inflated wallets are enough for those who can withstand and withstand. Let the rest of them eat pancakes, let them become plumbers in the pigeon! This is your interest in the new generation, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, cheap school for the state and expensive for the families, study in universities with incomplete student care, deletion, underfunding and lack of teachers, tuition fees for those who have been cut by the Mitsotakis - Keramea system, work without dignity, with no pay, no evolution and perspective. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. Now it's time to tear down the insurance system and send the message to the young and young people that to get a basic pension they should gamble. It is no coincidence that your party is being overcrowded in new ages. You blamed them for the transmission of the pandemic, you beat them, you down the streets with Mr. Chrysochoid's breeze. You're unpopular. You create insecurity, bet on tension and inspire no prospects. Therefore, our young people and young people continue to sing the lyrics of Eleftherios and the melodies of Mikis, whose loss today leaves an unpaid void and invaluable deposit, after having accompanied the music and struggles of many generations, the National Resistance, the Democratic Youth of Lambraki and the "114, the generation of the Polytechnic and my generation, the Postmultification and will also accompany all young people and young people who will fight for freedom, democracy and justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u173	So our young people say: Who's my life, who's after her to scare her out in the middle of the night? They scream and whistle trucks, like fish I've been caught in the net. However, the countdown for the Mitsotakis government has begun, because no political power has lasted for a long time without having the new generation on its side. And you have put it before you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u174	Please, my colleague, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u175	I'm done. The rheumatism don't cry on her, to be thrown from the top, toasts and reaps! Good journey, Mickey, pyropolitic of our souls, as well as the struggles of the new generation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u176	We are now continuing with Mr Athanasio Ljuta from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the new generation insurance reform, the draft law before us today, is an important one - I would say - historical, structural reform for our country, a reform that looks young people in the eyes and guarantees their future. In particular, this draft law gradually transforms subsidiary insurance from distribution to capitalisation. For new entrants in the labour market who will be liable for subsidiary insurance, but also optional for those who are under thirty-five years with or without subsidiary insurance obligation from 1 January 2022, individual accounts will be created. There the contributions of these workers will go, they will be invested on the basis of their preferences from the Capital Insurance Fund. Their pension will ultimately be provided on the basis of all the contributions and returns on investment. This is a brave reform that was necessary and that is what our government, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, is doing. In the social security field, this structural reform is necessary and historic. The need for reform arises from the demographic issue. Our country, as we all know, is ageing. This is because births have been dramatically reduced in recent years. The demographic problem creates new needs and our government is here to protect the world of work, the retired and the whole of our society, effectively addressing the new needs that are created. The distribution systems work well when we have many employees and a few pensioners. That was the reality of the past. The demographic problem, however, is not a problem facing our country alone. It is a problem that all developed Western societies are facing. On this issue, therefore, the right thing to do is to make a difference in risk. And as the ministers rightly said, the right thing is not to get all the eggs into the same basket. On the basis of this post, therefore, the other developed countries of the Western world have also moved on and achieved very important results. That is what we are doing today, and this is a historic moment for our insurance system. However, let's go see the important benefits that are generated by this reform. Firstly, risk diversification comes and strengthens the stability of the system. Secondly, the reform will lead to an increase in savings which our country absolutely needs, as this leads to investments for the Greek economy. Investment is a realistic and decisive catalyst of development. In the economy, as we all know, everything is linked to each other. Good policies give rise to benefits spread throughout the length and width of society and therefore also our economy. In addition to the present policy we are introducing, pensioners will receive far higher pensions than the ones given by the existing system. At the same time, guarantees are being made for old pensioners, but nothing changes for existing insured persons. Those who are already part of the subsidiary insurance system remain the same, without any change and only those who are up to thirty-five years old - and if they so wish - can change and join the new system. In addition, pensioners are not affected in any way. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the new fund which is set up in the Fund for Insurance. This fund will be a legal person governed by public law. The selection of the Management Board and the Steering Board shall be subject to very strict and very meritful procedures in accordance with the AACC procedure. It will have transparency regarding its functions and the information to be provided to pensioners and workers. The insurance system for years, particularly in the years of the major crisis of the last decade, has been a real and great problem which has had to be solved immediately and fairly. With the solution that we are giving today, we will give growth and safeguarding the social benefit as a whole and just one. One of our main objectives is to restore and restore the confidence of young people in the social security system. How many times have we heard from the young children that they don't think they're getting retired? That's what we're changing. Rehabilitation of confidence in the insurance system will surely mark an increase in employment and the treatment of uninsured work. It is now a one-way policy that we are introducing with this bill. It is absolutely necessary to believe in depth in the necessary reforms. It is time for great and substantial solutions, those which we have been planning and implementing since the very beginning of our election. This is how we continue and will continue in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, this government, the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis, has been elected to give real solutions. He was elected to overcome obstacles and build bridges with the future. The new generation does not need the policy that it entangles, but the policy that it will liberate. The Greek family needs to guarantee progress for its children. Our society needs the vision and policy of today and tomorrow. The Greek society expects nothing less than us and we are making our struggle, responding and being at the first moment next to everyone, recognizing the modern challenges, planning and implementing the appropriate solutions. With our policy we have done, done and will continue to do our best for all Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u178	Thank you. Mr Kegeroglu, you have asked for the floor for a minute as a parliamentary representative. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u179	For a short time, Mr President. Thank you. I take the floor because I note that in trying to support either the government or the parties' positions it blames others without evidence and documentation, it often goes away from the thresholds. I take the floor, first of all, from the position of a SYRIZA colleague who accused us of voting - he says - along with the New Democracy. Look, the Change Movement exercises a responsible, reliable opposition, controls the government and table proposals. What comes right in this Chamber and benefits society, benefits the country, even though it is not complete, we support it. We have proved it in this Chamber for many years now. So yesterday we voted for the measures to restore the firemen affected despite the fact that they were not complete and were not in line with the announcements, regardless of whether the mediation system was the redeemed one said that we did not vote. We voted for the PPP. We did not vote against this which was contrary to the interests and the prospects for growth following this disaster. So we're always in charge. Whether the vote coincides with another party this should have seen it more ahead, SYRIZA's gentlemen, when your vote systematically coincided with the Golden Dawn, especially in the period 2012-2015. So this should be the professor who came to fight us before, 'da' us, to think about it first, to make his self-criticism and then come here. We're coming to the government now. Mr. Skourletis, do you have anything to ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u180	I didn't ask you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u181	Then why are you bothering me? You're inconvenienced, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u182	Why is he talking? What's he talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Skourlet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u184	You're disturbing, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u185	I ask as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u186	You're disturbing, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u187	Please. Let go of the memorial show.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u188	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u189	Please, Mr President, what does this gentleman speak about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u190	What's he talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Skourlet, please. I'll tell you right away. It has been sent by the parliamentary group that Mr Kegeroglu is now taking over the role of the parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u192	Good. He asked as a parliamentary representative. So why does he make a Memorial Show?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u193	Wait a minute, Mr. Skourlet. We will not ask you, and I do not think anyone is allowed to be a judge of how he will speak, as is any other Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u194	What does he want now? I don't understand. He's the one who started it. You should give him up in class.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u195	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u196	He may be the chief of SYRIZA MPs, not of the other parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u197	I didn't deal with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Skourlet, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u199	You didn't bother talking when I'm talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Kegeroglu, leave Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u201	Please. We know you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u202	Did you tell his ear?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Kegeroglu, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u204	You came down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u205	I'll give you the time, but I'll ask you both to finish. Mr. Skourlet, calm down. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u206	To collect you, Mr. Skourletis, the ones who indiscriminately blame without documentation. If you weren't in the Chamber to listen to them, you're justified. But if you were in the Chamber, then you are double unjustified.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u207	What can anyone say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Skourletis, you are experienced. Let him talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u209	I'm returning it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u210	If you have anything to say, say it later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u211	I'm returning this to you, Mr. Skourletis. Mr President, human behaviour is recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u212	What can I tell you now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u213	The man no longer, not the congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u214	Protect the procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u215	Shame on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Skourletis, are you asking me to protect if you told each other something I didn't hear? What am I supposed to protect you? What am I supposed to do? What are you asking me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u217	It's systemically causing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u218	But please, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u219	He's been systematically provoking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u220	But, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u221	It keeps doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Skourletis, Mr. Kegeroglu asked me to speak and I gave him the floor. Please, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u223	To withdraw the designation he said and you may not have heard him, Mr President. Instead of withdrawing the characterization...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u224	Unfortunately, I'm sorry about the designations, but I can't do anything. If Mr. Skourletis described...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u225	I didn't say anything like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u226	If you can't do...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u227	He's a liar too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u228	Please, I believe that not all of these characterizations are needed. But I give you the floor, Mr Kegeroglu, to conclude and, if you have anything to say, you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u229	I now come to the issue of the placement of Mr Tsakloglu. Since yesterday, Mr Chacloglu, you have been systematically falsifying our positions. I am referring to the issues that have to do with occupational funds and subsidiary insurance. First, we asked you yesterday to tell us about the first pillar, the main insurance. When young insured persons have a reduction of EUR 200 to 250 per month from L.4387/2016, why are you not restoring this injustice, but are you mocking young people, promising a new increase of EUR 20 to 25 per month through the new subsidiary system that you are promoting? Where are 200 and what's 20-25 in front of 200? 11% to 13% the report says there will be an increase in the 198 which they currently receive in the supplementary pension. Why don't you tell the truth that young people will pay twice for their insurance fund, on the one hand, the subsidiary and, on the other, the additional tax that they will have to pay to pay for the transition costs? Thirdly, we are talking about professional funds and, yes, we are claiming to be the new one which replaces what has failed so far where it has been implemented, which is subsidiary insurance with State intervention, because that is what this is about. Capitalisation system is currently in place and the current subsidiary capitalisation concept. But it does not break the solidarity of generations. It's also distributive. That's the difference. But it's capitalizing. The professional funds are a capitalist system, yes, but they do not require funding from the state, which you come and say we do with subsidiary insurance. Why, though, do you need additional funding for your system? Because young people's contributions will be played on the stock market. Why don't you say it clearly? Will it be for investment in shares or in other stock exchange products of doubtful efficiency and at the same time what do you say? The state model comes to fund the management they will do when the fund's money managers fail. That's the truth. The rest of the information you say about support for the system by blaming others without documentation has no place at all I think in a sincere debate in this House. It is the ambiguity that tends to be the worst form of populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u230	Before Mr. Hetas calls the floor, the Minister wants to answer. Please, Mr. Chacloglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, we must also respect the speakers a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u232	What can we do? You see, the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u233	When are we going to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u234	Tell everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u235	I'm sorry, I don't know the procedure. Do I have or have I have no right to intervene?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u236	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u237	Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Kegeroglu, you know my appreciation on your face, but I think that all three things you said aren't right. If it were only for 11% - 13%, we wouldn't have made this reform. The 11% -13% that you saw in the assessment of the National Accounting Authority said "Since all the money will be placed in bonds of the Greek State". But that's exactly what we're trying to avoid. Secondly, it is not right what you said about the current system of capitalisation. It's a capitalisation system. There are no funds. Whatever comes in is gone. With the other things you have said to me, you are simply confirming what I said earlier from the Step of the House. You are telling me that the professional funds that are capital funds are fine, but subsidiary insurance, when it becomes capitalised, will not be fine. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u238	State managers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u239	Fine. You have been missing before when I gave the example of the two funds that are state-owned and manage - and your government has founded them - and they have the best returns on the market in the respective parts. Why would it be different? In the first few years, the ECB will already manage these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u240	Thank you. We have a change of parliamentary representative in the Greek Solution. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. Because we are in a small group and we have obligations, many times the parliamentary representative may not be here. You make it easier for us, and thank you very much. Because some truths have been heard, I don't know if they are the Chief and he has watered the rest of the Parliamentary group the addiction to lies, but because the numbers are not lying, and Mr Moussalas just now said that the Greek Solution is voting for the New Democracy bills and made an immoral specula so in words of the air, I would like to say the following. Mr President, from July 2019 to 31-8-2021 the New Democracy Government brought a hundred ninety-eight bills to the Greek Parliament. The Greek Solution has voted 28.2%, i.e. fifty-six said "yes", SYRIZA who blames us and dares to say that we vote in favour, has voted 46.6%, i.e. one in two. The ninety bills have said 'yes'. This is the co-government we blame and say in here that you go hand-hand and that you rehearsed with Mr. Apostolakis the other day and didn't sit on you! You won't lie in the mouth of the Greek Solution. Here's the paperwork. Fifty-six "yes" Greek Solution, ninety-two "yes" SYRIZA, a hundred thirty-three "yes" KINAL, a total of ninety-eight bills brought by the New Democracy! No more lies! The spoon is over! You're addicted to lying. You'll be serious as we are. I submit to the minutes this paper, so you can take it and don't dare lie again about the Greek Solution. It's over and over!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u242	My personal view is, however, that the question is whether the right is being voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u243	That's all he said!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u244	I say it in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u245	But not a lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u246	I think that the country is in a process of avoiding confrontation on this issue, but the controversy about how to improve them. Anyway, that's a big talk. Mr. Amanatidis of SYRIZA who waits patiently, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u247	It is true that I have lost my patience, Mr President, and I apologise for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u248	It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u249	However, I think it was within the limits of decency. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first I would like to express a great thank you to Mickey Theodorakis who has inspired us, moved us and accompanied us all our lives. It is not only the grief, but also the need to express a great thank you to a great man first of all. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister - Mr Hatzidakis is missing, but I believe that he will hear it, you will tell him - I would be worried if I were in the absence of Mr Hatzidakis, first of all, in such an emblem, in my view, a bill, which of course has other reasons not to come because, as you know, anyone who digs the pit of each other falls in sometimes or when you go for wool, you are leaving and ragged. However, you should also be concerned by the National Authority's proportionate report with the information it has. You seem to be alone not politically, but also from mass spaces. Tell me a mass body that supported your bill. In other bills you come and say, "But he supports us, he and he." Who supports you here? Tell me a mass player! Your people who voted for you are against them and they are against the syllables of the whole world, because you have united the whole world against this policy. The impoverishment of the arguments against all the arguments put forward by the opposition seems to have come to light with the following two arguments by Mr Hatzidakis. He said "We will do our patriotic duty", i.e. resorted to patriotism and said he was in the New Democracy programme. By the way, I'm sorry, I got on the New Democracy website and I didn't find this on your schedule. If you have it, give it to me. So your bill describes it as "female" in the country, "loving" to supplementary pensions for old and new insured persons and a donor horse for capitalisation - privatising a total of social security. It is a noose in the country, because the cost of transition contributes to increasing public debt and undermines its long-term viability, with a visible risk of imposing new cuts in wages, pensions and social costs. Therefore, from 2040 onwards, instead of our country having a lower burden on the debt, as almost 50% will have paid it up by 2040, the capitalisation of individual accounts - as you have said - of supplementary social security will be charged to the State budget, with an annual average cost of EUR 2.7 billion, resulting in the transition costs of up to 49%. SYRIZA's government has adjusted the debt and pulled the country out of the memos. Your government is burdening you with public debt, and in the case of a new long-term recession - why don't you tell me that you are blocking it - the state will be called on with limited budgetary revenue to cover double losses, namely the gap in financing the old system and the difference between the guaranteed supplementary pensions of the new system and those resulting from the low level of returns. You apply alchemic creative accounting. The Government argues that, according to the reports, the net cost of the reform, i.e. EUR 56 billion for the period 2022-2070 and the benefit of the EUR 50 billion reform for the same period, is EUR 6 billion for a period of almost fifty years. That's how the 120 billion Mr. Hatzidakis says. In practical terms, you say that, with the growth of GDP from investment growth, reform alone will give an average of one billion additional tax revenues per year to cover the corresponding cost of the transition. However, this claim is nothing but anticipation of alchemy effects and as history knows the alchemys did not find the lyric stone, which turns the soil into gold. So do you. Why is that? Scientific surveys conducted internationally have not shown that, through the operation of the transition from a distribution system to a capitalisation, an individual 'gull', general savings have been increased and the existence of an association with GDP has not been established. And that's what they call high school teachers, just like you are a professor, Mr. Chuckloe. They should have been called in. One of them is Mr. Robolis, just like others from the Panteion University. Did you invite them to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u250	Yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u251	You can tell them. So he is deprivable of supplementary pensions for old and new insured persons, because first of all you are also in debt, and secondly, by abolishing the thirteenth pension you said you will give after 1⁄2 % of GDP to the low-pension workers, you are now putting it in the bill of which you will fill the gaps. So, then, low pensioners and weak fellow citizens who expected that they would receive the next chronic social dividends, let them forget. The government cuts 900 million a year budget by the low pensioners and the poor and gives them to the "brows" of the financial markets. The expression is acute, but it's real. It's the most classic redistribution you've ever made, and she's the only one that's ever done. For future pensioners, you say that higher pensions are guaranteed. However, according to surveys that have been carried out here, they are at the level of pious desires and can be eloquently characterized as uncertain and insecure. This is because the increase in life expectancy by an average of eight years compared to the current generation means that future pensioners will receive a pension of 35% less than the current level of supplementary pensions. Otherwise, in order to receive the same level as today's supplementary pension, they should be retired to the 74th year of their age and, of course, due to the risks of low yields, especially in times of crisis. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So you're saying they'll get their contributions, what's going to get into the "atomic money", which isn't so individual, since they're not enough on their own, they're gonna have to be the other buttons together. So again all the eggs in a basket. But all these eggs now from this basket are going somewhere else. Why is he a Trojan horse for capitalising a total of social security? Why do you not satisfy one of the four conditions stated by the Council of State, the Supreme Court, in relation to subsidiary insurance? And who's that? It is the third condition: subsidiary insurance must be foreign to business risks associated with the exercise of the insurance function by private entities. And that's not what you have, so you have high risk, middle risk, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, the public nature of the insurance system is a clear dividing line of ours in relation to conservative neoliberal forces and New Democracy, by privatising its second pillar, subsidiary insurance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. For SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance is a priority and commitment to ensuring the adequacy and sustainability of the insurance system in terms of social justice and with public, compulsory, redistributive, universal nature. The New Republic of Mr Mitsotakis leads the country to a violent change in the productive, development and social model by redefining the capital-work relationships, the structure of production and the organisation of work. It's not enough you've deregulationd working relationships, now that the chapter has found its willing executioners want it all. It wants to increase the profitability not only from the goodwill it takes, but also from the reduction of rights and the widening of inequalities against workers. Mr President, I would like a minute to refer to two arguments which have been heard. Here in the Chamber it has appeared as if the problem of our country's insurance system is two things: demographic and life expectancy. To think about them, any professors, with all due respect, can have their own history, philosophy, scientific opinion, etc., but here the MPs are responsible for the world. And toward the world we have to say the following truths: the influx of resources into the insurance system from profitability when the insurance system financed the country's development for 50 years with 0% interest rate is one of the reasons, as is the policy of subsidization. All increases in years were not paid to basic salaries, either to civil servants or to private workers. They were getting allowances, so they didn't get into the insurance system. Also, the customer service and the pathogens of the systems, the cuts in wages and pensions, and the underpaid wages, unemployment and the non-insecure introduction of young people into the system, the black uninsured work, the crisis that created debts, and of course the PSI, the structured bonds and stock exchanges, all of which - and I thank you, Mr President, for giving me time - are the reasons that brought the system into this situation. Mr Mitsotakis' government has been unable to deal with the great problem of society for two years and puts it into adventures and precariousness not only social security but the country's overall course. Its policies are dangerous, especially for young people and its future. That is why she is isolated even from those who voted for her. Greece and the Greeks deserve a better future. Progressive change is both necessary and inevitable and will be brought to it by the overwhelming progressive majority of our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, too. Mrs. Cassimatti is on his way, she's coming, she'll talk right after. Mr Hatzidis has the floor now from New Democracy and then Mr Alexander Aylonite will speak from SYRIZA. Mr. Hatzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u253	Today we welcome the "very" Mickey Theodorakis, a myth of art, a deeply democratic man. His memory is eternity! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, many things have been heard these two days. I would therefore like to focus mainly on the new generation, the burdens it has borne and, above all, the stress for the next day. First of all, we're not in 1950. Then there was a large youth population who could maintain an exclusive distribution model with a ratio of four employees to a pensioner. Today, unfortunately, we are at 1.7 employees for each pensioner and the assessment of the National Analogue Authority is that with the data so far the future average supplementary pension will fall to 10% of the average salary by 2050. It is therefore clear that this is anguish to millions of young Greeks who have already paid an expensive price because of the economic crisis and are now, of course, being pressed again because of the pandemic. The previous government has not brought any reform at all. On the contrary, he added new problems to existing ones. He brought an insurance law that kneeled the workers and was judged on many points unconstitutional by the Council of State. On the other hand, the Mitsotakis Government is moving towards a major reform and creating a new landscape in subsidiary insurance by changing the data for decades. Young workers paid dearly during the crisis, with high contributions and, of course, with great uncertainty about tomorrow. And this is a flagrant social and transgenic injustice, which we here today ought to correct. The new capitalisation system is taking a decisive step towards saving future pensions. We must ensure that today's worker feels safe that the money he gives from his lap will get a place tomorrow. The bill therefore brings a revolution by adopting the best European practices. Today we're changing insurance philosophy. So what's going on? Young people were working to ensure the position of the larger ones in particular. But the drafting of today's 30th will now also be ensured. And that will be done with double safety. On the one hand, for the current pensioners, nothing changes at all. Pensions are guaranteed and calculated with current provisions. On the other hand, the young people who retire in the future will receive a guaranteed pension at least equal to the contributions they paid, of course, plus inflation. So that's what you say no, gentlemen of counterpopulation? In your attitude you are insisting on the current system, which has long condemned the consciousness of the workers and, above all, of the people of my generation. So propose your ideas and care for the interests of young workers, those who have to stand up to these difficult times and of course take the lead in the country's recovery the next day after the current pandemic. And the cost of transition will, of course, be fully covered in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are moving towards a revolutionary reform with clear advantages and deep, radical areas. The first section concerns the economic aspect. Every worker will now have a 'atomic money' that will manage the public sector - and I stress it - an EAEC. The money he pays will get it back when he retired, with a great chance of overpaid. This example is very successful in many European countries, so it is now time to transfer to Greece another good European practice with which the worker gains control over his supplementary pension. And it is clear that the worker will get at least what he has put up and possibly receive a higher amount, from 43% to 68% on average, as international experience has so far shown, particularly in Northern Europe. The second section concerns the fight against tax evasion, and this is very important. Why? Because the young person with an individual account will care more about his contributions, he will care more about his future tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, I am really asking myself that the report by the Opposition that the government is gambling with supplementary pensions. I wonder: Is it gambling when there's a guaranteed return on the contributions you've paid? Young people see us as well and try to understand these incomprehensible theories of counterpopulation. Why do you deny the hope of a better pension for young insured persons? Why this obsession in the past? Why do you insist on a system that is not sustainable? Today, then, we are voting for an important reform, with our eyes looking at young people. We look them in the eye and tell them clearly that they do not need to worry about their retirement, that they can work with a sense of security. We have reduced contributions, and now we are opening up safe and secure courses to the future, and current pensioners remain quiet for their own pensions. We support an insurance system that is stable, sustainable and above all more efficient. We support the work and effort of the Greeks and especially of young people. We are actually supporting the future of our country. Unfortunately, you in the opposition have decided to be against consensus, to be against everything as it has been seen in the last few days. It's okay. We're going on. We normally move forward with the consent of society for young people's tomorrow. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u254	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, and especially for keeping time. Mr Aylonite has the floor, and then Mr Panagis Capatos from New Democracy immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I am sure that all Greece has been crying today at the hearing of the death of the great Mikis Theodorakis. I'm just saying we don't get Mickey Theodorakis too. He was in his own tall. Let him be global. Mr President, I cannot say a few words about what is happening every day. I honestly wonder if you are the government of the Hellenic Republic and I will be explained. Can't you see that the people are divided into vaccinated and unvaccinated? Can you not see that you are sowing a sort of division, hatred, I would say to the Greek people, while you had to achieve unity and national consensus on this national tragedy, the pandemic? You find - and indeed the Prime Minister himself - 50% of the Greek people saying'sprayed'. I'm lying? Somebody tell me if I'm lying? I have the impression that your Government was passed by both "sprayed" and vaccinated. You are expelled from work from doctors and unvaccinated sanitary doctors when the coronary is transmitted to the maximum extent outside hospitals. Have you done a study showing that the coronary has spread to society from health and doctors? Has there been a specific study? Didn't you call them heroes? Is heroism awarded as a title only to vaccinated ones? Something changed? You have left them for so long - to tell you this - the whole of Greece and even in the middle of a tourist season in an incredible state of health relaxation, claiming and shouting that you defeated the coronary. For once, you say it. Let's take a look at all the public transport. Yesterday I saw on a television channel what is happening in the public transport here in Athens. You do not provide free tests - I say them for people to listen to - the insured uninvasive workers Greek and the teachers to punish them. Listen: punish them. Honestly, who gave you that right? We have done so, and when we debated this provision on the mandatory nature of vaccinations. You are engaging in compulsory vaccination, and you know that it is forbidden by both the internal legal order and the international order. And we talked about this here. You transfer the responsibility of your government's irresponsibility to all others except yourself and especially you look to one side, it's all the fault of SYRIZA. When did you get a percentage, a minimum percentage of liability? Our President, Mr. Tsipras, told you this morning. And while you celebrate victories at all levels, everywhere victories, you make a reshape and you change the leaders of your obvious victories. You've all changed. Why did you change them? All of our people are telling you here, Mr. Tsipras, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, everyone. Cherry on the cake: You added to the government a extreme right, Mr. Plearis. And you say - be careful - to us that we are pretending to be sympathy and co-operation, while you are putting Mr. Comrade Minister when he is red for us. Where and where? What are your symbolic movements? Did you sit down and chat with our Chief? Did Mr. Mitsotakis even call Mr. Tsipras? Don't be fooled now. As far as the bill is concerned, that is why you are triumphant. Good for you! It's all triumphant. But I will tell you something and forgive me for that, with the sympathy they say in my village. You have achieved your political and social isolation. Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou said it was a reversal of her position. The whole society, its institutions, the parties in here are opposed to the bill. This part, that is, of Parliament and outside society is against this bill. You don't count it. This project, in my opinion, is the identity and continuity of the neoliberal programme you are implementing, with the victims of the people and especially young people. You have set this objective to place Greece under special employment arrangements. That's your rule. Looks all over the place. Cheap elastic work with minimal rights. The citizens know this and those who do not know it, those who still support their vote of 2019, will understand it in their pockets and in their torso. You're the only ones looking at private interests instead of the people. You are attempting a hard redistribution in favour of the few that is intensifying labour insecurity and multiplying inequalities. With the capitalisation of the ancillary insurance system, the distribution of the insurance system is downgraded. Tomorrow will the main insurance follow? Remember that you will also bring a bill for main insurance. After retired people, the bill beats young people, as their contributions are gambled with zero safeguard. With the structured bonds - many of my fellow Members have said so in terms of SYRIZA - that they have not been forgotten, how can you speak of a secure contribution investment? Let me remind you, for once, that it was not Mr Brutsis - I was sitting in the back seats, remember it like now - who said in this House that you had made sure that the insurance policy was fully viable by 2070? Is that a lie? Is what my colleagues are telling you at SYRIZA? It's purely your inspiration today's bill. You want and do so, you have not been imposed by any of our partners, nor by any other treaty, which would have to do with the adequacy of the insurance system. In addition, demographically, you've made it a tire. You are not ashamed to mention it when you are tearing down employment, wage labour and planning the creation of jobs in a full-time environment. I chose that word. Full of the Middle Ages. You, who are honorers of everything, are constantly on the wrong side of history, do not give you a nail if the danger surrounds the funds and the insured if the taxpayers are to be charged. Only managers and private interests should not be burdened or even the administration of the fund that you will define. It is certain that - quite rightly, I think, Mr Collis and others have said - that there is no discharge, no impunity. Of course, for intent and serious negligence, it is everywhere that way. But remember, you will bring in a similar arrangement with the bankers. Same. You'll see. Remember. So social participation, accountability and control are unknown words for you. That's the truth. I'm missing a piece of my speech. In conclusion, our country needs a uniform, public, distribution, social security system. You are currently putting a bomb on our insurance system, which must be based mainly on the solidarity of the generations, but also on the economy of the country itself. The sooner society realizes it, the sooner our country will rule a government like the government of SYRIZA. You will be punished by society and you will see it quickly and remember me. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u256	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Panagis Capatos has the floor, and then Mr. George Tsipras from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are today farewell to a great Greek, a global Greek, deeply political in a revolutionary spirit, which has inspired, expressed and shaped the identity of Hellenism and is now passed on to eternity. For this pendant, for all the simplest things that the Greeks and the country offered us, we honor and thank Mikis Theodorakis. As Kefalonites and Ithacasios, we are proud that our place was the first artistic trigger of the great music composer in his childhood in Kefalonia. We say goodbye to Mikis Theodorakis with excitement, honor, respect and much love for everything he created. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as today's bill is concerned, the adoption of a capitalist insurance system is not an easy case. There is no magic wand that can easily, uneducatedly, from one day to the next, solve problems of a sensitive issue, such as social security. As a counterweight to this absence, therefore, political will is the one that pushes decisions in one direction or another. The draft law of the Ministry of Labour concerning the introduction and application of the capitalised system of economic operation in subsidiary insurance and the establishment of the fund is proof that this will exist. Allow me here to make an historic reference to this point which is of importance to us. In December 2017, at the 11th conference of the New Democracy, we voted on a number of important political issues. A key question was whether we agree on the transition of insurance to a reasonable capitalisation system. The response to the secret vote of the participants was overwhelmingly in favour of the adoption of this model. It was even the current Minister of Labour the man who chaired the organisational committee of our conference from which serious, substantiated and deeply reformative policy proposals emerged for the next day. On this day we are today voting on a draft law that we believe as a political force, as a parliamentary majority we are recommending, and we are doing what we are doing in the run-up to, but, above all, we are committed to programming. However, since the whole process of parliamentary and public dialogue has heard arguments that have been untrue and insulting about our intelligence, it is particularly important to see practically what we are trying to do in this draft law. The first finding is that it concerns only those taking up work as from 1 January 2022 in which there is a subsidiary insurance obligation and on voluntary basis for those who are up to thirty-five years old. Second point is that, from the present social security system, a single section is transformed into a capitalist by the introduction of the institution of the individual money. Finally, a new fund, the Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund, which operates with an institutional philosophy, is established, that of the private economy. Our interventions aim to lead to significantly higher supplementary pensions for all young people insured, to provide more options, but also better control over the final pension, to guarantee that the amount of the pension cannot be lower than that corresponding to the contributions paid through the State guarantee for non-negatives, to disconnect supplementary pensions from demographic developments and the gradual ageing of the Greek population, to strengthen the confidence of young people in the public insurance system and to enhance the sustainability of the country's overall social security system by creating a new independent and stable insurance pillar. Ladies and gentlemen, once we have returned the dirty work that has been heard by the Chief of Officerial Response to Minister Kostis Hatzidakis, we call on SYRIZA to come to Kefalonia and see our regional airport and compare the earlier image to today's, to see in practice what reform means and how it turns into a tangible, visible public policy exercise, to see ultimately the dirty work of mud for a project that gave breath to society, the economy and tourism of Kefalonia and Ithaca. I conclude with a thought that sums up the essence of the one we are discussing and vote on today. It is a given fact that our insurance system has dealt with us as an economic, political and social issue and still concerns us in a number of years: at the moment as a need to start the viability of the system, in protracted time as the continued postponement of all those reforms that had to be implemented and the political system hesitated in future to ensure the guarantee grid that protects the right to social protection. To this stake, this draft law answers, a plan that implements a basic election report by the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis personally, but is implemented by a political group willing to promote all those reforms that the place needs. In the context of this need, namely the insurance reform for the new generation, it also costs my voice today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. George Tsipras from SYRIZA has the floor and then Mr. Constantine Blouchos from New Democracy is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. Two issues of topicality before I get to the insurance. Of the natural disasters that preceded the major fires in 2021, little has been done in infrastructural compensation and rehabilitation, with the exception of an allowance given in the case of 'January'. In the western Attica from the floods of 2019, there have not been any compensation required for most of the damages, the national road is still torn apart, the stream of Pickas has not been undone, etc. That's what's going to happen for this year's fires. Secondly, Mr. Dendias in Northern Macedonia at an official visit yesterday said: "The full, consistent and well-being implementation of the Prespecies Agreement is the foundation necessary to strengthen our relations more closely and to implement our common vision of the accession of the country of Northern Macedonia to the European Union". Today's Prime Minister on 25-1-2019, six months before the elections, said: "I want to send out a clear message from here, since Greek citizens trust me as Prime Minister. The Macedonian accession process to the European Union is not related to the Ambassadors' agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, look into it and explain to us what is happening: does the Presidencies' accession process not relate to the European Union, or is it a prerequisite, as Mr Denktash said yesterday? Energy: Increases up to 50% in invoices. I have heard Mr Hatzidakis justify the increases, speaking rather to indigenous people than to Greek citizens. It gave rise to increases in gas prices. Are you serious? Have you set up a policy in the field of electricity, considering that there will be no fluctuations in the price of gas? Are you applying a policy of early defoliation without considering that there will be increases in gas? Is that the seriousness of the original design? Evidently Mr. Hatzidakis didn't believe what he was saying at the time. Because he or she is stupid and he did not understand that with the energy structure planned then we will have disproportionate increases, when the gas price was up or - because I do not think he is stupid, he is a smart man - he did not believe what he was saying either. He was carrying out contracts. So you said that with your policy, we will reduce electricity prices and in just two years we have monstrous increases that do not exist in any country of Europe and you want us to believe that the study on the insurance you brought here has calculated that, after decades, the current young people will have better pensions, the budget, the workers with their contributions and the taxpayers will be lower. Neither do you believe it, but also the international experience that you bring here will certainly be viable and that it will not collapse at the expense of these same people who are today paying for the failures of an energy policy in just two years. First of all, the insurance you brought didn't exist in your election program. We knew then that on the basis of reports, it was thought and did not enter the election programme. Why, since it is so beneficial for the new generation, for which you are tired? We hear almost all the MPs. Apparently, it's some kind of paper card that's cut off for the new generation. So since it is so beneficial for the new generation, the retired, current and future, why was it not in the election programme? You're a secret agenda government. There is a hidden agenda in most of you who legislate in education and leave today out twenty thousand additional students, a secret agenda for most of the environmental regulations, environmental damage, other than fireworks for defoliation and electric cars, a hidden agenda for the Banking Code, an extreme code that does not exist in any other country of Europe, a hidden agenda and agreements on national issues, a hidden agenda for the removal of the eighth and now a hidden agenda for insurance. You are the Government of Postpopulation, which almost all of its policy, the tops of its policy are a secret agenda. Why? Since most of the things you're doing are so self-evident and innovative, why didn't they exist in your election program? I have heard Mr Tsakloglu say here today if a 10% support system from the state budget is viable. I will not go into the essence of the argument, which, in the event of weavings, collapsed agencies such as AIG in a strong country, such as the United States, will prove to be much higher than the budget burden. The problem is that the very facts you refer to are misleading and I will tell you why. I can hear all other Members referring precisely to the state's high pension expenditure, that is, the pension expenditure. Well, Greece does still have a large proportion of GDP today from the state budget, but what we all need to measure to compare is the total state spending on the third age, over sixty-five. It is expenditure which, according to the Commission, the European Central Bank, in addition to pensions, includes government spending on care, medical care, education, long-term care and unemployment, which is a problem for the over sixty-five people. These are allowances and social benefits of another kind. If we sum up all this expenditure, according to the Ageing Report of the European Central Bank in 2018, that is, our own report, our own insurance policy, firstly, Greece does not spend any more than the Eurozone average. It is a lie, it is a great inaccuracy, and if we follow much more of the Commission's estimates of old age expenditure for 2040 and 2070, we will have Greece with 22% of GDP compared to 28% of the Eurozone and 2070 19% in Greece, 27% in the Eurozone. To say this, then, in simple terms, state pension expenditure is high in Greece, but there is no or negligible all other social benefits for the third age. In other words, we have a state which, as compared to Western Europe, lets the third age go through with a less or less poor pension plus family assistance, without other social benefits and now tells them 'and what we give you from the budget and the pensions a lot is, will cut off and cut your head'. On the basis of the projections for 2040 and 2070, the total state expenditure for the third age should be increased and not reduced, if we want, Mr Tsakloglu, to speak of a comparison with the European framework. Mr. Hatzidakis was a good unionist in his youth, and this is perhaps the only thing he's learned in his political career. Because only political career has and we must recognize it: it has a great ability to do black white in what it has brought to Parliament today. In insurance, however, he was a bad Hatzidakis. It is so unnecessarily, so unjustified this legislative initiative that Mr Hatzidakis has been able to justify it beyond fireworks for the new generation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. She cares about pensions to be enjoyed by the new generation and cut the thirteenth pension, the present one. Tell her as you wish, permanent allowance, help. You cut it, and you want to believe that you care what the new generation gets after twenty or thirty years. You care about the new generation and you have stopped the increase in the minimum wage for the new generation today and you want us to believe that you care about what pension these same people will receive. And, finally, every time you bring a bill, a basic argument of your own party was the burden of the state budget, of the taxpayers, etc. You are now bringing about which there is no need to bring about sustainability, which, in your own words and figures, will be a burden on the state budget. Finally, I have to say this: the neoliberal policies implemented by the New Democracy have the special feature that it is not like the policies of other right-wing governments in Western Europe. It is a specific mixture of neoliberalism in the third world and extreme right. I will not go into many inaccuracies that have been heard here. A lot has been written and much has been said, even what you say about Sweden is not right. Apart from this is the only OSCE country that has a compulsory recapitalisation system - there is no other example - except that Sweden is a very special country, with a wonderful social state and completely other possibilities, so even there this capitalisation has distribution elements and is not an individual account. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That's the way we have this. Instead of following the experience of the oldest neoliberal governments of the developed world who, for example, in the energy networks and other networks privatised the infrastructure and then backed up, they came back, because neither infrastructure development nor lower prices we had, instead of following the experience of countries that applied insurance like what you are bringing and back, because they have failed this insurance completely, as if nothing has happened on the planet over the past twenty-thirty years, you have progressed to an insurance completely backwards. And the worst of all? Beyond all the others, neither can you guarantee that this is sustainable and will not collapse or mismanagement - the structured bonds are very recent experience and on the basis of immunity, there is nothing to prevent this from happening in the future - and much more than fluctuations in the global economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u260	All right, Mr. Comrade. Finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u261	Finally, you are not the only right-wing government in Western Europe. You are the only right-wing government in Western Europe implementing Eastern Europe's policies during the generally failed transition to early 1990s or to Latin American policies during the period of military coups and junta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u262	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Konstantinos Bluchos has the floor from New Democracy and immediately after Mrs. Evangelia Lykoulis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on our two-year anniversary of independence, a huge spiritual man of Greece, as Savvopoulou noted. It's like he's telling us: Look what's of real value all along this course and leave them small and trivial. Theodorakis will always live in the eternal song of the Greek tongue with his fascinating music. And because the previous speakers referred to pandemic again, a little comment. So, in the face of this painful pandemic reality with so many consequences, we have been forced to prove ourselves to be deaf and deaf people, who, with our political retreat and poisoned by the toxic charm of rivalry, are overcoming the forced bindings and prerequisites of a leading crisis. We need to get serious at some point. In the present study I have often wondered about the political future that a Member of Parliament could have in a province, if it did not make any difference in the face of some of the data from the proportional studies on labour, insurance and demographic issues. On the other hand, what future has an extreme Greek region, if its representatives ignore or ignore demographic and working age and ultimately insecurity. And finally, the famous slogan "Greece belongs to the Greeks", which we may easily accept which Greeks are concerned with? How real is this slogan and how hollow rhetoric when it comes to the selfish ones of the present and ignores the Greeks of the future? Today, as well as through the bills concerning the Ministries of Health, Education and Labour, there has been a strange phrase of "intergenerational solidarity" or "intergenerational respect", which I have also said in several speeches, which I do not know in our society how much it is for our state as well. Some data are coming from aging populations, which reduces the labour force that will be called upon in future to work more than usual and to compensate for this development. Hypothetically - he referred to the committee's discussions - if we as a society manage to eliminate all elements of tax evasion, if we agree to a system of returning sufficiently high wages, if we have everything, if we suddenly enter a cool social paradise, we will certainly have an excellent redistributive pension system. But if we all decide that we do not want to have more children, then we have to figure out that there will be a last generation in the visible future of some decades that will clearly not get any pension, nothing! There has been a clear thing about which decades we are now blind. We called economics, the Cyprus issue, the Greek-Turkish relations, the Macedonian problem. Very few times we have been serious about the problem, namely demographic problems, which will be a possible womb. We are getting old as a society very quickly and what we have been doing over the past decades is that we have been putting more and more burdens on the future generations. The new generation, however unconsciously understands it, sees that its future is filthy in our country and has already started to vote by struggling toward the exit. He's leaving for another land, for other places. And what are you going to do with a country that guards borders from overseers or irregular intruders, claiming national laws from snatchy neighbors, if in a few decades there is no population dominating these soils? This draft law, accepting the reality created, builds next to the redistributive pillar of the insurance system the capitalisation. In the past thirty years, corrective interventions in the system have obviously not reached the heart of the problem. It was not enough to address the two main components of the problem, namely the rationalisation of the system and its response to demographic pressures expected to rise before the middle of the 21st century. All of this, of course, came to add in 2010 the outburst of the fiscal crisis to which the debts of the insurance funds that had been covered by the state for so many years and thus increased public lending. The constant procrastination that also characterizes us in dealing with insurance with successive readings of the problem is the dominant one. It was a permanent trend for those who were called upon to take decisions that any structural changes would create more short-term problems than they would solve in a much later period of time. That is why they did not assess the deeper structural problems as important and, of course, let them run. Studies of academic groups, in which the Deputy Minister of State, Mr. Tsakloglou, at the time, participated in all the reasons for failure of reforms at the main political cost. It's a call he trained an entire people as if he didn't see reality and became a charm for the liar and demagogue. In addition to the political costs, however, the ageing of the population, the low productivity of sectors of the economy resulting in low or negative growth, the unjust distribution of burdens and debts, fragmentation, low growth of the system, administrative weaknesses, long-term impoverished state intervention, and problems. And the state in the eyes of Soviets has essentially substituted many insurance agencies who have suffered some kind of addiction to state aid. The deep arm of insurance needs is laid in the deep pocket of the state cork and "we lived well and our children worse" obviously. State and insurance organisations are shifting the burden of insurance to future generations. Who are they responding to Mr. Chacloglu's proposal? But, obviously, the so-called leftists, who have reiterated the same position over the past thirty years "do not change anything". They did not see the need for changes when Greece had the most generous pension system in the developed world, nor did the three Memorandums reduce pensions from 20% to 60%. And you are the same ones who have never seen any problem with pensions paid annually to people of fifty-five and sixty-five years at a high annual cost. Now what are you doing? Evidently you are shouting maliciously again "Pinochet" on the one hand, "job" on the other. I wonder, is Pinochet a Swedish economist? Is a country's banking system a game? Is the deposit of a saving a gamble? Ladies and gentlemen, we continue as a state twenty years after the resolution of the reform effort, Yannitzis, to recycle ideologically deadlocked ideologically, plagiarizing the ears of voters, saying whether half-truths or great lies. In fact, you, the Left, caught up in your ideological blindness and lacking thirst for division and division - your attitude to the Minister of your own former Minister reveals this, of course - take care with passion for the total symptom of economic data, not to say anything and realize what a citizen means to the benefit and damage. You seek a permanent impoverishment and behave as the guardians of moral values. We should probably take care of the crowning of confidence and the word of honor. Its government is aware that it was elected not to make a state of affairs nor to hide problems under the carpet. It is now imperative that we act to resolve this thorny issue and not to close our eyes as a society again. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, too, Mr. Bluehock. Mrs. Evangelia Lykoulis has the floor from the Change Movement, and then we enter the talking cycle with Webex.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Greece is grieving today and the world is grieving. The mourning is national and it is global for the loss of a global Greek, Mickey Theodorakis, the eternal Zorba of our soul with his eternal music symbol of unmistakable hope for life. Mickey passed to immortality, always staying close to us through the huge work, the great struggles, but mainly his excesses for the sake of the country. And as he said, he wanted to stay in history because he belonged to the standing. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the term of the days that concern all views in politics is the infamous and much-needed, I will supplement, in the game of power you of the government today in a completely blurred landscape, today in the most difficult conditions of pandemic with the suspension of unvaccinated and unreplaced health, today when almost all the rugged surgery is postponed throughout the country, even the emergency ones, today with the smell of death coming from the ICUs and covering the country again, because your Government has failed to force the world to vacate, since your logic was accorded nourishment, I am opening society, focusing on, entertainment and your behaviour, of course, after you have reached young people from one side to the next and fighting them on the other side of your paperworking, thus turning them into a home to your homeless and crazy government. Klochoskoufi in a dramatic struggle on the political field with all the heretical religionists in the conspiracy conspiracies, all in the so-called system’s objections, all in the ‘you are not bored, brother’, but all in the serious people unfortunately not convinced, and their fear of their lives smacks them and keeps them hostages of hesitation, uncertainty due to the lack of confidence in you who are now missing, but you do not have much of the debate in Parliament. You only know the chip slogans, since you have days of full ministers, Undersecretaries, deal with the reshaping, the one who took you to the tartars and the couar you never managed to start again. I see the debate that has been taking place since the morning in Parliament and unfortunately I do not see you accept very important things that have been said by all the parties and could actually make your bill much better. But society right now is with the back of the wall and the eyes to the god. Unfortunately, your government constantly puts self-defense with the most spectacular political self-government in history, the one with the latest transgressions after the multi-singled reshape, which from subversive rock turned into a motif of the Great Week. In the case of saspins and brandy, then, change and reboot, after the loss of a million trillion acres of forests and property and failure of vaccinations, when the slogan of the beginning was heard, you tripped yourself. You lost your lust, that's what happened to you. You bruised too much after the last one. And you have buried not because the former Minister has not finally agreed to become a Minister, and finally he is judged on many levels, and you who had him and you who wanted to take him, not just the groups, are judged by the people in political history, so that we do not forget that. But you have buried yourself, mainly because you have entered the process of creating artificial consensus without knowing what it means to the truth. The consent, ladies and gentlemen of the Association, especially as well as of the Officer's opposition, requires in-depth work, requires labor, retreat, democratic empathy and, above all, visionary sight, i.e. DNA, which you do not have, nor do the "no" or "no". And you tried to show that you've all got it. But life, you know, is always subversive and often unpleasantly revealing. In the game of power, therefore, the Civic Opposition entered the country's difficult environment. You spoke of distances, apostates, dig up fifty, sixty and seventy years ago, and go by saying, stealing both the little one of division, division and hatred. And you're swinging the finger on us. This is not the case with the multitude of behaviours of this kind. The Change Movement, the President of the Fofi Gennimatas, the Members of Parliament, the MPs, the executives, friends at the edge of the country, we are calling on you every day and, above all, we are calling on the political forces of the place at last to put back on the big issues for which we have systematically worked, we have tabled proposals, we have proposed solutions costly, we have drawn up a comprehensive plan for the prevention of natural disasters, health, education, development, the primary sector and insurance, Minister. It is not possible for you to deaf, therefore, both of us and of you. At last, you have to deal with misguided policy, as I have said before, more unfortunately than heavy policy. However, we have a collective responsibility as politicians and an issue we are discussing today, subsidiary insurance, you should discuss it in terms of consensus, such as our DNA, that is, giving the necessary time, giving the artificial preparation to the rest of the parties, otherwise it is fatal to find this in the bells as well as many of what you do, when you are ideologically addressing the issue that ignores the Greek reality, the global reality, but also the political process. You want to raise this issue as a reform, but it is, in fact, a contradictory political conception. I can explain, Minister, why it is contradictory. It is contradictory because in times of difficulty, instead of strengthening the social state at all levels, you come with a fragmentary, timely bill and talk about the future of supplementary insurance policy, placing in the political infinity rather than in an integrated plan of the insurance system in the new era. Your policy is contradictory because it requires both the continuous presence on the labour market of a future worker and the positive return on the contributions invested in the financial markets. Do you have such a framework today? So you have a stable job? Or do you have stable markets in which one can invest and expect one to win? Well, then why don't you tell us, too, that we should do that and apply it to other policies? Your policy is contradictory, therefore, because you are allegedly showing us models that exist in other countries, while the professional funds and not the individual ultra-capitalisation buttons are the ones that are being promoted. It is contradictory that your policy is because you are going to house things and you are seeing things away in the future, and you are really renounce political responsibilities and are not interested in the cost of transition calculated from 56 to 78 billion. Where are those going? Who's gonna pay for it? But you know behind what you're hiding? You hide behind this very simple, that you will not be here to apologize for all this in the future. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with your tolerance, my last thought. Unfortunately, Minister, you are building paper towers and throwing the ball in the sky, because, thirty years later, as you are looking forward to creating a system that is supposed to be seen in the future, unfortunately, all the things that currently employ the world of work will not even exist as conditions. And that is a necessary condition, a principle of the logic of the debate. And finally, let me say one last thing to you, the question which was raised by the Secretary of our Parliament, and which I found to be a good and intelligent one. Today you can get up and take the microphone instead of getting so confused - because I saw you a little irritable - and tell a man that his supplementary pension would be a hundred, two hundred, three hundred, four hundred, a thousand? How much does the boss give? So say it. Do you have to say such a number? So, can you give that up? You can't say it. So what are you doing? You plunder asynchronously. And where are you hitting? You hit SYRIZA's Civic Opposition as populists, because they said "we protect the worker" and voted for the Katrugalos law. And what are you doing? You want a written sample, Minister, and you have it in your hands, and you hold it, as far as I can see. Why, then, do you not accept the amendment of the Change Movement for women, the mothers of young children? They were persecuted on a voluntary way out, they were forced, Minister, and you know that is a hundred, hundred and fifty people, and they were beaten together and minority. Be careful what a social sign the matter has. Immortality was struck and hit together and the young woman, the working mother was hit, the whole social system was hit. That's the law of Katrugalu. So you, who threw your glove away, why don't you take that glove, Minister, to accept this amendment? So populism is judged on the part of the works. And we look straight at youth when we really do not lead to tragedies of life. But you know, there is not only the tragedy of life, there is the political tragedy, and then unfortunately the protagonists and they pay the price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u266	Thank you too, Mrs. Liikali. We are now moving on to the circle of speakers with Webex and the first speaker is Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis from SYRIZA. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. The whole Ecumenos is bent in front of the slogan of the great Mikis Theodorakis, the giant of civilization. The man who taught all the intimidated, generations and generations to claim. He taught us to claim. And he taught us that important things, Mr President, in life are not conquered by those who are begging but by those who demand and claim. Mr President, the government is in panic because it now has a past, and it has works and days marked by black pages. He recently brought the working law and established conditions of an Asian working environment by dismantling any concept of law in the workplace. He brought us the bankruptcy law and actually auctioned the sanctuaries and loyalties of the Greeks. For centuries Greeks, Mr President, defended altars and fountains. Today thousands of Greeks are threatened to find themselves outside their homes. And it does not have the courage to pass on the electronic platform with which it promised that there would be some protection of the first residence. He passed laws with which he demolished the free education in substance and the well-established social elevator that allowed all children to claim a better day in the sun of justice. He has major responsibilities for the thirteen thousand people lost from the coronary. He dared rather than convince, fire people who are useful in the system and much more not replace them. Her responsibilities for what emerges will be heavy. Mr President, we have recently had the great disaster of fires. And there it has been shown that the final state is incapable not of managing but of learning from the mistakes that have been made in the past. They got away with fires, and the refreshments escaped, so they destroyed the dignity of thousands of people. But along with this dignity burned, the value of the so-called state of service was burned. Today it brings us a bill to take care as it claims of the future of young people. Yes, sir. Mr President, in order for young people to have a future in a country they must be present primarily. And we know very well from the ten years of the major economic crisis that some have very serious responsibilities for the country's bankruptcy. And today they have never put a mind in this area again. Forty-one billion, Mr Hatzidakis, you borrowed in two years and increased the public debt. This is what Mr Costas Karamanlis has done during the years of the thick loan cows. Because he claimed that they had received loans at low interest rates. But the destruction came and the marble was paid for by the people. It brings us a draft law on the future of young people. Young people, I stress, and I say, must be present. What do young people have today? Young people live, Mr President, in an extended puberty regime without being able to fly with their own wings. These young people don't know what the working environment will be. Indeed, in the context of the crisis, new technologies and artificial intelligence. Because things change. These young people, Mr President, how will they be persuaded? Electionally, the New Democracy argued - and it was one of the arguments with which it actually took the Greek people's vote - that it would create many well-paid jobs. I would like Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Tsakloglou to tell me one of these positions, and I would like to apologize publicly for what I apologise to them. Because we need to be close to reality. Mr President, there is a next issue concerning the distrust manifested by all sides of anti-population. Will someone say why this distrust is manifested? Mr Tsakloglu, in other countries, social security issues when reforms were to take place - you know what I'm saying to you - a great deal of suffering happened, a dialogue between the social actors and the parties. Time has passed, issues have been rubbed so that all those necessary conditions can be ensured that they build an insurance system that will serve society. What are you doing now? Suddenly, in everything, in this disaster we live in, you bring us a bill without dialogue and, above all, without consensus. These issues, Mr Hatzidakis, presuppose consensus. Because you're a man with moderate speech - I don't deny it - you had to star in such a process and process. There is, therefore, the question of confidence. How to trust a government whose executives also played a role in the stock exchange with the shares of "shoes" and deer, with the structured bonds - you know very well what happened at that time in the government of Kostas Karamanlis - and of course with the great crime that was committed in 2012 where the sacred money of the insurance funds was illegally turned into bonds. It is controversial that the government at that time had the right to convert it into bonds. Most of all it should be in prison those who bought the bonds of the sacred money of the funds not from the primary sector but from the secondary market by unloading the banks of Germany and France. What did you do about it when the speaker filed press reports on the Areo Ice which began and was under way in search of those responsible? With the well-known provision of December 2019 in the context of a vote to amend their penal code, you have relieved them of all responsibility, Mr Hatzidakis. Why? Let justice be judged. We don't trust her? If we don't trust her to say it. And you come now and provide immunity to the administration of this body that is supposed to do so great good to young people over the next few decades. Why? Isn't it enough for them to get full wages and possibly too many bonuses? Isn't it enough for them to appoint them to such positions? They must not have fear in gambling, why are there to be gambling? You can't question it. From there it is expected that there will be possible profits. What is undercover and you provide them with this immunity? It is a great question that also gives rise to a lack of confidence and distrust. Minister, you tell us that through this process pensions will be improved. And why should we believe you? Didn't you tell us a few months ago that with what you did to PPC, the electricity will be reduced or stabilised?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u268	You're short, Mr. Kurubli. You've been in 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u269	And now what are we living these days? The current will go up and then it goes down. Precisely hijacks. But you're not gonna pay, you're going to pay the simple world, the backbone, the unemployed, the heirs, the excluded. Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying that with this draft law, which is not the product of consultation and dialogue, which has the lack of confidence in the overwhelming majority of Parliament - at the level of votes to avoid misunderstanding - it is certain that, like other legislation that you have promoted, you will be left behind, because, from now on, the countdown is counting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u270	Finish it, Mr. Kurubli. You've been in 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u271	The descent starts and you'll find yourself in vacant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, too. Let me clarify why there is a comfort of time. Colleagues have been alerted for nine o'clock. We're done. The seconds says Mr. Katsotis isn't three minutes to be seven minutes. Okay. Mr. Burhan Barran has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, unfortunately, has once again brought forth another bill in a rough and pretext despite its importance, seeking to flow directly and immaterially for this time. So let me consider it accidental that this bill is being passed today, and the reshaping of the government took place the day before yesterday that will distract the citizens for days. The meaning is, ladies and gentlemen. Impossible, therefore, to address the increased needs of the citizens, how much more of the new generation and the modern challenges, it is making the settlement of insurance matters very hard by undermining the public social security system. Solidarity, social justice, equality and the basic principles of the social state are directly undermined. But in what way? With the gradual withdrawal of the state from the social protection sector, which PASOK clearly founded in the country and by shifting the weight and responsibility to each individual separately to address the social risks. It is directed at young people and promises that they will stop paying the elderly, i.e. their parents, thus triggering age racism in the most cynical way. The Mitsotakis Government with the highest youth unemployment in the European Union hides the raw truth about the capitalist system, as it claims that the highest supplementary pensions for the new generation will be guaranteed by its application. However, on the other hand, it does not provide any guarantee of the amount of pensions. The insured knows he'll pay, but he doesn't know what he'll get and if he gets it. The government does not, however, tell us that in order for everything that is promised young people to have a stable job and a good pay for the next forty years. Nor is the government telling us that the economy should have a steady upward trend for the decades that will follow and that investment in its contributions should yield. We ask, ladies and gentlemen, which of us here in the process will have a new economic crisis in the coming years? It is predicted that, due to the increase in life expectancy by eight years, supplementary pensions will be drastically reduced in relation to the amounts received by the current generation. This means that future pensioners will receive a pension reduced by about 35% compared with the current level of supplementary pensions. The capitalisation system brings about a strong social breach both among pensioners and workers, since pensioners are led to support the interests of capital and not of work and within the workers themselves, since they are led to a centralised approach of the system where everyone cares for themselves alone. This government which has dramatically curtailed the invaders - a train example is the Architecture of Xanthi - deregulations labour relations, now goes through subsidiary insurance, social solidarity and solidarity between generations. It is characteristic that the New Democracy after its failure to manage the pandemic, trying to convince the people about the gravity of the situation by putting all its weight on individual responsibility, continues to renounce its responsibilities for the thousands of outstanding pensions, unemployment, insecure and underpaid work of young people, shifting the burden on older people to pensions at the expense of their children. We hope, however, that our fears are not confirmed that the political authorities will lead the country in the medium term once again to a new cycle of austerity and wage cuts, pensions and social expenditure in general. Unfortunately, the promises on the security of savings run completely counter to the commercial presumption of the ambiguity and the major fluctuations in capital markets and therefore the major risks of the capitalisation of public subsidiary insurance. To conclude, therefore, all of this is that you are driving subsidiary insurance to the cliff and young people to the uncertainty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u274	Thank you very much, too. Mrs. Cassimatis is the last speaker. But wait a minute, Mrs Cassimatis, to give the Minister the floor for a moment for the legislative improvements. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u275	Ladies and gentlemen, we have closed with the amendments. Now I'm tabling legislative improvements. That's them. You'll see them. There is no one with special political importance, but I would say the opposite. But, in any case, I am tabling them so that the services too can do their job in relation to the body of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u276	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Cassimatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u277	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers: Mikis Theodorakis 1925-2021. As if Greece closes with Crotos today and be reborn only in the footsteps of all the Greek and universal elements Mikis Theodorakis with heroism, music, popularity, harmony and mind, embedded and condensed in his passage from Hellenism and humanity in the 20th and 21st century. It was a beautiful Greek in the primary sense of the term "good", which means in time. Yes, Mickey had inside of him the land, the homeland and the times that she lived and all the times that she used to overthrow. That is why the future can itself overturn from immortality. Kris, born of a Asia Minor mother three years after the Asia Minor Destroy to Chios, in the hundreds of three years since the Slaughter of 1822 during the Greek Revolution and dying in the anniversary year of the Two hundred Years since the launch of the Race for the National Paligeia precisely. He wanted to be buried in his homeland, the martyrship and the Leventogenas Crete with a funeral religious. I promise you that the House will shortly discuss this coincidence of sites and years that are catalysts for the Genocide of the Greeks and Christian peoples of the East, but it is not the time. Mikis was the meeting of Ionian and Minoan Culture, of modern and ancient times and with its creation he dug up the sub-century valley. That's why his sound was genuine Greek, national and transnational. It was the personalized act of fighting our people against barbarism. He was shared by the story of swings along with our comrades and ancestors, to take the baton and take part in the National Resistance, to the "Lamprakey" as leader, anti-dictatorial wrestling, postpopulation, anti-memorandum wrestling and, of course, he was also a timeless guardian of the Macedonian issue. Child of this people and his spiritual leader, as well as every oppressed people, the Hellenism of Greece and Cyprus, the peoples of Armenia, Palestine, Cuba, Chile in Latin America and everywhere. First in the letters, the first in the struggle and first in the Piraeus II MEP with the EDAS and the KKE, present politically and creatively in Greece of Postmultimatisation - during all the periods he renounced, I am not referring to - in which KE and Greece self-supposes with the political will of the final. Mikkees of Rome, Drapetsona, "Axios Hestimi", "Canto General", his symphony work and "Dream" with its lyrics for the mother - Greece of the West and the East and its two sons. Emphasizing history as the ocean he wrote, he evoked Pan-human civilization to regenerate him nationally and globally and gave us everything as an idea and an act, democracy and freedom, social liberation and national independence, the Justice Sun Insighted as Christ. The world’s quadruples are vibrating by the fall of the great oak today. His spirit, however, will forever blow on the wallets of the national and popular conscience to awaken it. If we are worthy, this will be born again by our children. His written political will does not allow any misinterpretation to be given by the superintendent pillars of the capitalist and imperialist system. There was a Greek and communist and with the project of its content it invites everyone to indivisible national popular unity. You attacked, Mr. Hatzidakis, the Chief of Officerial Response, Alexis Tsipras, for a divisive reason, invoking the unity of the Greeks that Mickey actually commands us. You obviously want to ignore that the unity of a people does not only have the subject of unity, it is about the prosperity and continuity of this people united, which you in today's bill instead of suspending its debate because of national folk ecumenical mourning, as has been declared in Greece for Mikis Theodorakis - but, if the words were worthy of you, of course, would not be entitled to'security reform for the new generation' - which, therefore, you, following on from all of these and all your previous laws against education, work and domestic real production, are counterproductive of this continuity, as you sabotage the solidarity of the generations, which is essential, unity. You are crushing the breeding conditions of the new generation in Greece and then simply invoke the demographic problem to play on the stock market all of us, the current and future workers and pensioners. When do you do that? In the relevant report by 'DELOITTE' on behalf of the European Commission in December 2019, just before the coronary - and I will present it in the Minutes - and in paragraph 6.2 for the insurance fund sector, it is clearly stated that in the European Union investment in stock exchanges is reduced, 'away from countries', they write precisely, 'away from stocks' from 50% to 30%, because after the global financial crisis, the trend is general dispersion, 'general derising', to understand it in English as well. And you come now, after the crisis of the coronary, which is not yet over, which is increasing the public and private debt, and which require inflationary policies to overcome the crisis, to put supplementary insurance on the brink of the financial system, where, in order to float the funds due to the inflationary policies currently being pursued to overcome the current crisis, insurance funds will be forced as a vicious cycle to invest in shares more and more and so to increase the risk and risk. Risks or returns are not on average, Mr Tsakloglu, as you said, because each pensioner will be attributed the result of the current economic situation, not the result of the long-term on average. And, of course, if the yields are negative, the state, i.e. the taxpayers, will be called upon to pay the broken ones, as the very recent major financial adventure teaches. And with regard to this claim - because you did not want for technical reasons, as you have said, to refer to inflation and the consequences it will have for the management of the insurance funds - it is precisely here that there is an article from the 'BERNSTEIN' to the 'FINANCIAL TimES' which states why those funds are already inside the financial system in order to float, they will need to invest more and more in shares and increase the risk for the beneficiaries. Of course, because you like capitalism - casinos, which is why you are bringing an amendment today which helps some casino rulers to go beyond court decisions, but we will be talking about this when we have time, because when you have brought this amendment at the last minute, we cannot say details. Foreigners seem to be taught other than you, but the Mitsotakis government, which burns the future as fuel, burning forests, counting acres, as public health burns, counting coffins. Your words, not ours, are the spirit of yours, that is what I carry in reverse. Instead of making it obvious that you do not deprive the national budget of the cost of transition and invest in research, education and the domestic market, but you have a very big rage against all those who make up this society. Today the Golden Paralympian Thanasis Gavelas was crowned at the Paralympic Games. The programmes of mass sport, popular sport which gave thousands of young people and young people with disabilities the opportunity to do so in the 1980s, 1981, 1982 and then, you are abolishing them. I can't believe you're congratulating them. Also, if young people, Mr Hatzidakis, are not inspired by the present redistributive pension system, as you said, why are you making their subject to capitalisation, what you are building? Leave the choice! You dare count how many will fall? We invite you and we challenge you to respond to our objections to the 50% increase in electricity that it is happening because of the situation on the international stock exchanges and at the same time, Mr Tsakloglu, Mr Hatzidakis, without any reason you are throwing all these problems now and the future ones into supplementary insurance, in this financial jungle.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u278	Finish it, Mrs. Cassimatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u279	I shall conclude, Mr President, although we have so much to say and the day was to say about others.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u280	We've got secondarys now. We said there would be a comfort, but, at any rate, please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, thank you very much. Nemesis will fall into your head. You carry it at night and take it as a government. But there's a social prefecture, and that's what you'll be suffering from. Hellenism will also suffer it, which the Prime Minister has already said is crying. Romei doesn't cry, Romei rises and continues! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, too. All right, we're getting into the second grades. Mrs. Maria Apajidis has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 'a cholera and spring accurately, so that the sun returns a lot of work!'. Mikis Theodorakis will show us forever the helicon of resistance, which must be accompanied by hard work, to bring the sun of liberation up and the spring to life. And this heel of resistance was never more timely than today against the double crime of the destruction of nature and of the insurance system. A great deal has been said and we have also stressed in our protagonists about the crime that pension delivery recommends in the gambling of investment. It is, indeed, a crime to which we must resist. But we also need to talk at the same time about the depth of the issue, which is that the question of insurance depends entirely on what happens in industrial relations. The distribution system can only be saved if the labour market that forms the basis of its funding is properly functioning. This is the only way that transgenic solidarity can work. And, yes, the New Democracy is fighting all this and attempting to dismantle it for the benefit of the few oligarchs and also by making workers dependent on the course of the stock exchange. It moves to the weakest risk. It carries the risk of the economy from the wealthy investors, the poor bio-opportunists and frightens them so they can't strike, they can't resist, because they'll have barely joined the stock market games. But SYRIZA does hypocritically an objection of unconstitutionality, even though, as we all know, he has fully joined the Memorandum Arc. SYRIZA's colleagues, what is the point of invoking the Constitution now, which, as a Memorandum party, you have circumvented and raved? It is true, however, that the Constitution under Article 22(5) considers the State's obligation to take care of the social security of workers. This requirement of the Constitution must, in fact, be respected and not observed. However, it cannot be cut off from the fact that the real labour market has been deregulationd and dissolved by all parties of the Memorandum, namely KINAL, New Democracy and, above all, by SYRIZA who is now throwing crocodile tears for unconstitutionalism, while he was a fine troika agent. But when wages are paid off, when unemployment is escalating because of your memorial policies, how will we have the contributions necessary for the distribution system and the intergenerational solidarity supported by the Left? The problem, however, is that SYRIZA has ceased to be in practice a left one since he became a memorial, because it can't be either one. Memorandums that continue with other names, because we now have requirements and unbearable primary surpluses, mean some basic things, such as continuing high unemployment, primary government surpluses corresponding to deficits in the private sector and wage cuts, and therefore incapable of financing the insurance system. This is, in fact, the root of the problem. The New Democracy again uses the word "sustainableity" that is a beautiful word, fashion, to say that it is really impossible to have an insurance system of justice and solidarity, because the labour market is broken up by your neoliberal policies. The use of the word "sustainableity" reminds us of the corresponding use of the term "climate change", when our forests are burning. The government uses as a justification the need for insurance and climate change and avoids telling us that it is precisely its own policies that are creating from the outset and the problem of the sustainability of insurance and climate change. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] So when you are using New Democracy colleagues, these conditions must be afflicted because your policies have brought your policies and not self-satisfaction because you have allegedly discovered the ideal excuse. As far as the most important issue, however, is the ecological issue, Mera25 will table an amendment tomorrow, which also enables municipalities to break down arbitrary buildings in the saints. We believe that if decentralised administration fails to do this, there needs to be a possibility for municipalities as well. Besides, MPs of the ruling party have stressed the need to speed up demolitions, such as Mr Brutsis, MP of Cyclades. This is the purpose of our amendment, since the decentralised administration is not intentionally financed and has been allowed to leap, it takes a further step, in order to respect the environment, to punish arbitraryness and to render the Aegean Sea, the beaches, the sandy beaches, where they belong, to the Greek people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The refusal of this amendment will also be another confession of the government's guilt, a confession that it is in fact seeking to destroy the environment in order to help its private friends. I am, however, returning to the question of insurance. As MERA25, we consider that instead of hiding behind vulnerable terms, such as invoking sustainability and tackling climate change or hypocritical communication terminology such as invoking the Constitution, we need to look at the deepest problem. This problem is the deregulation of the labour market, and in this context we must also seek the resources that will save the insurance system, as we have tabled it as a proposal for a law on the transfer of public property to insurance funds and the imposition of a special tax on banks which will also be directed at insurance funds. In these ways we are proposing that we find funds directed towards a genuinely public insurance system. But also on the subject of fires, the amendments we are proposing to the effect that, once and for all, we should disarm any arsonists, but also those who have retrospectively exploited them, such as the 'Greek TERNA', let us say. In the same way, and on the issue of insurance, our proposals are ignored, because they are on the opposite side of the logic of the TIADE and the U.S.S.A. which sells public property and which have the support of all parties and the Memorandum Arc and SYRIZA, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, I had gone to Northern Evia as a solidarity in the struggle that the people had done. I saw a very characteristic graffiti that expresses the residents' feelings. He wrote "If the forests were banks, you would have saved them". The same applies to the insurance system and we can say it to all parties in the Memorandum Arc, i.e. "If the insurance system was banks, you would have saved it". Instead of saving it, you hand it over to the decline and dependency, to make the economically weak even weaker, to intimidate them, to make them persuasive and even dependent on your involvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, too. Mrs Maria Athanasios from the Greek Solution has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President. This bill is a gravel of supplementary pension. In a few years' time, the current pensioners will suffer terrible cuts and, finally, supplementary pensions will be absorbed by the main pension. The next generation not only will not find an ancillary pension, but will have to pay extra money and will at best get its capital back. This is a collapse of the insurance system. It's a great failure. This collapse will be charged to you, as of course you will be politically accountable. The so-called ‘individual money’ introduced by the draft law in the context of capitalisation means that supplementary pensions, old age protection, will become an absolutely individual case for the insured person and the investor. Every insured person will know what he will pay, but he will not know what he will get at the end, that is, if he will take, because both internationally and in our country, such investment projects have ended up in the trash of the unusable, with tragic victims of the insured and the retired. This bill expresses and has the opposition of workers, the new generation, pensioners, small and medium-sized professionals and farmers. The only ones who agree with you are the large business groups and the bankers. The TECA will be a legal person governed by public law. The Committee on Social Control should therefore function within it, involving social partners or even representative bodies, so that, on the one hand, the institutions of the EESC can, on the other hand, disguise the social conditions in question and, on the other hand, monitor and ensure a continuous system of accountability to the insured. Under no circumstances should decisions be taken in secret, nor should decisions be taken on key issues with simple joint ministerial decisions, nor, of course, on the basis of the demands of the private interests concerned. This will certainly also lead to risks for the security of deposits and investments. Demographic consequences are addressed by the transition of the economy to a higher volume of employment, full employment and decent living wages. Unfortunately, the government is doing the opposite. It extends parttime and temporary employment, the elasticization of industrial relations, institutionalizes individual contracts of employment and the 10th. To apply what the government promises, young people must have stable jobs and good wages for at least thirty years, the economy has been looting upwards for decades and the investment in its contributions has been yielding. Is that something the government can guarantee? Do you, gentlemen, deceive yourself? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the continued reduction in the annual contributions due to the NDC system leads to the creation of a cash deficit and a lack of funding for the participation of the insured in order to protect his benefits. By not entering new entrants from 1-1-2022, the contribution base will be reduced from year to year and gradually their return will result negative. Consequently, the accumulated amount of retirement will result in less than all the contributions paid in the working life of the insured person, with the result that the new pensions resulting each year are increasingly falling until they are declining to a minimum. Therefore, in order to maintain pensions for insured and retired persons who remain in the old system at the pension levels of the current system, it is necessary to take care to ensure that the parameters of the perceptive performance as well as the adjustment of pensions are taken as those of the open NDC. In the capitalisation system satisfactory returns can be achieved, but provided always that investment is prudent, because it is pension benefits and the insured as we have pointed out are exposed to a type of gambling, credit risk and market risk. Your experiments, gentlemen, lead to our thinking of calling this undertaking the privatisation of pensions. Although Mr Tsakloglou spoke about restoring social justice, at the same time to establish the new fund and to cover his first expenses, the government will use 0.5%, the social dividend introduced by Mr Brutsis in 2020, around 900, millions as additional social resource for the low-skilled and economically weak. However, the socio-security character of the pension system is dissociated from the concept of the public, the social and, instead, the group is promoted by individuality. We have also heard you say that supplementary pensions will be invested in Greece, but it is not mentioned anywhere in the bill, Minister. Can you make an amendment so that there are no omissions? Ladies and gentlemen, in this long debate we cannot omit our compatriots who have been forced in previous years to unravel because of the bad policies that have been followed up so far by the governments. Millions of precious for our homeland minds, precious hands, precious souls offer their services in foreign countries. Aren't they nostalgic about their return? She's nostalgic. It's certain. Then why, with your choices of the bill being passed, are you canceling their plans and their dreams of repatriation? What security do you offer them? What hospitality? Uncertainty and uncertainty about the future led them to the unhospitable streets of immigration. Why do you perpetuate the reasons that led them away from our homeland? Why are you blocking their return? Gentlemen, in order to advance our homeland needs a patriotic policy, not a team of gamblers who decide on the returns of insurance contributions. It needs long-term plans with vision that will give hope to our compatriots' hearts for a new Greece, hospitable mother who will regain her children in her arms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u286	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. We have reached the end of a debate, I consider it revealing, particularly for the young people and young people, which are the objective of this bill, not to solve problems, but to be the victims of this new financing instrument for investors. On the one hand, the workers on the other. Winners. That is true, because the government - and in its programme - is clearly saying it - serves capitalist growth, finds new areas of profitability, such as energy, with the liberalisation of energy, with PPC being privatised, where competition here would bring reduced tariffs, but they have gone to God, such as the environment with the forest-free law that has become flammable material for the fires, in order to become tourist facilities, to become wind parks - the forestry law - said today a new area of profitability, the capitalisation system, which will be individual buttons, which everyone will be in a band, the coin of the investors of insurance companies. Money hot, plenty, long, at least forty years. There will be no pensioner from this fund. There won't be any expense. So that's where we're talking about money. Of course it is clear: Mr Hatzidakis has told too much lies. That's what's called him, of course. She's never been vindicated. It's on the contrary what he says. He said PPC’s invoices would be reduced, for example, and they have reached God. That's what he says now. It will increase, he says, the pension of his subsidiary, and it is well known that the money will be empty when this moment arrives. Of course, Mr. Chacloglu is coming to take revenge. He was with Giannitsi, Sprao, Tino, Nektario, and he was in this team that he then attempted with Yannitsi to pass this bill. Of course, the working people's movement stood opposite. Today she's in trouble. He's in the back. But don't think this bill will last. The movement itself will abolish it. The movement itself will send you where you should. And the others that tried, they sent them. The Katougalu law was the cause, if you like, of the mobilizations, of the games, but also of the change that took place in total. That's what's gonna happen with you. What do you think? You passed the working law. You have freed yourself, he says, eight hours, and you did it ten hours. But we have it guaranteed, he says! As you now say, you are guaranteeing pensions. You do not guarantee pensions, you guarantee contributions. Will you tell us what the pension is? You didn't tell us. You cannot tell us, of course, because there will be no pension. And you say the arbitrary 'increase from 43% to 63%'. Where do you support this? Say what will be the pension of the insured person who will be in the EKA from 1-1 to 2022 and who will be retired for forty years? What will be his pension? A hundred? A hundred and fifty? Two hundred? Fifty? Forty? Nine euros? Seven euros? You cannot say it and you will not say it because it depends on the return on investment, on stock markets, on gambling. Defaults, crises, bankruptcies, fraudulent and real are known, and so on. Then with the stock exchange, with Simitis, in my job, I had a friend who was "very" PASOK. He took a loan to make a house and went and played it on the stock exchange. I said to him, "Please, what are you doing? You're a poor man, a working man. Please don't play. You will be destroyed." He went and played the loan he took to get home for his children on the stock exchange, lost everything, didn't even have a home and he pays the loan because the stock exchange was then up to seven thousand units. This fairy tale now sells to young people, that through the stock market they will have a higher pension. But aren't you embarrassed? Do you think that young people and young people do not know what the situation is? Does capitalism share money? Is that what you're telling them? And because time is over - I thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance - to say this. We know that you are a fanatical supporter of capital choices, a fanatical enemy of workers' rights, trade union rights. You hate the labour movement. You also went to the first circular you pulled out immediately, so you could say "here the heads in" - because you know there will be struggles - it was for the labor movement, for the strikes, for the "false", so that you can have the database to give it to the employers so that they can put their head in the sights. It's the first circular you made now, because you're afraid of the movement. You're afraid of it, and you're doing well. The movement and it will be reconstructed and put forward the vindication of their own needs, but also another perspective where the working class itself will take power and then it will solve the problems of insurance and employment relations and health and education and holidays and the environment and all that is today arousing the working people's family, our people. You still have time to withdraw the bill and now, before we vote to say 'we're withdrawing it'. Because this bill is a crime against young people and already retired people who will see their pensions in time to fall. Because what you say that the budget will cover the loss that pensioners will have because they will not contribute to the system, these are fairy tales. There is already a zero deficit clause, and the budget cannot already be involved in subsidiary. So far, he has not participated. The employees themselves had their own contribution, there was no State contribution for the subsidiary. And you come here today and sell fairy tales to break down pensioners and young people, parents and children and tell children that their parents are responsible for paying these contributions, so you tell the children that their wages must be reduced. For it is their wages, Mr Minister, that you have the amendment now and you are reducing three units again, and in 2022, another gift to the large business groups. You're reducing the employees' wages. It's a wage. So you blame young people for their parents having high wages and tell them to accept reducing their wages, not having the pensions that the old had and having allowances or having such a hunger pensions. So take the bill back, you have time, we have a little while to vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u288	Thank you. Mr. Mulkiotis from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by ending the two days of debate in plenary, it is clear that there has been a manifest nervousness from the Ministry's leadership, a nervousness which cannot be justified. But there was nervousness and that was also found by majority colleagues. One of the northern Greece that does not support the Change Movement, the PASOK, my professional old partner, called me and said, "I understood that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs feels rather intelligent to address young people with an experienced and successful salesman of insurance packages". After that I am also having a word, because we have said something and I say: did the Minister find it intelligent to say with this bill today and yesterday that he is acting in favour of workers in the labour bill a little while ago, without even half a union or even half a trade union agrees with him? So now it is completely indifferent to the Ministry of Labour for consensus and is projecting half-truths to cover the big lies. He does a selective demonstration of evidence from models from other countries in beam trying to convince his audience that he owns the absolute truth and the magical solution to problems, while in fact he mortgages the future of young people. How does he do that? Firstly, while maintaining the unacceptable Katorugalou law that the New Democracy, by misleading the Greek people, had made an election commitment to abolishing it, reduces the main pensions of the new pensioners from 20% to 35%, that is, on average EUR 200 to 250 per month. Secondly, instead of supplementing these EUR 200, 250 lost by our young people, they are now promised a precarious 11% to 13% increase in subsidiary staff, that is, EUR 20 to 25 per month. Thirdly, the truth is that this bill leads with mathematical accuracy to an ancillary we say 25% to 35% less than today. In other words, instead of EUR 198, today's average subsidiary will be given a pension of about EUR 140. Fourthly, the enormous cost of transition - we insist on this - from one system to another, between 75 and 78 billion will be paid by young people themselves with their contributions and all the taxpayers, whether they receive or not receive a supplementary pension. The truth of the matter, ladies and gentlemen, is that any contributions by young people will not be made to any 'bulk', but will finance companies and investments that no one can guarantee that they will have positive returns. No one can guarantee it. In other words, we are talking about lower and uncertain supplementary pensions. Is there another interpretation? Oh, no. I think, Minister and Minister, that you do not want to understand - you are aware - but to accept our proposal to strengthen occupational insurance that is developing throughout Europe, following the failure of systems such as those that you are introducing today, a failure that is supposedly innovation and supposedly reform. The workers' representatives and the GFCM and other social partners have proposed it to you. Since 2002, PASOK has said so. You're actually missing these today. And most importantly, at the time of the complete decoupling of the real economy from the financial markets the government, firstly, insists on a legislative proposal which she even knows will give rise to scandals. Secondly, it insists on a proposal that is void in terms of guaranteeing the pensioning of future generations, if unemployment does not shrink if full-time jobs are not secure, if both productivity and wage levels are not increased. Thirdly, it insists on a proposal that undermines the fundamental values of the social security institution. And I say about solidarity, I say about human dignity, social justice, equality, values of the social state. Fourthly, it insists that the government does not recognise that the professional funds and the 'individual money' have a great difference in the fact that the professional funds retain solidarity, while the other one does not exist for the model. I'll tell you what one of the initiators of the system proposed by the government said. In Sweden in 2004, Carl Sherman, one of the inspirations of this Swedish model, about ten years after the start of the model, wrote in a book entitled "AP Fund brakes and your pension," he writes, believing that he is also self-criticizing: "Our commitment solely to maintaining the financial stability of the system has deprived supplementary insurance from solidarity, which is the basic principle of social security, resulting in a reduction in the standard of living of pensioners". Ladies and gentlemen, I have said this in order to give the signal. The Change Movement is clearly placed in this bill. You will allow me for a minute, Mr President, and I shall end by referring to the amendments we tabled as a Change Movement. Minister, you did say about the amendment on the abolition of the reduction of the national pension for the members of the Greek minority of Albania and the relatives from the former Soviet Union, i.e. the abolition of the provision of No 4037 of 2016 that you will see it later. The New Democracy had already made an undertaking in the election to meet this request. It's been twenty-six months. With two topical questions, we have also discussed this with the Secretary-General, and the promise was again made that he will be satisfied. Twenty-six months hadn't even studied the system. So far you haven't decided what to do? Secondly, you rejected four amendments tacitly, unfortunately in my view. We need to know why you reject the amendments. One amendment concerns the OTE's subsidiary insurance industry, the second amendment concerns retirement because of an old age-free age after forty years of compulsory real insurance. How long will these people work? Forty years all the time. The third amendment concerns the abolition of the automatic mechanism for increasing the retirement age on the basis of life expectancy and the fourth is the right to a full and reduced pension for old-age women of the former IKA - EBRD. These four amendments have been rejected implicitly and are, in our view, politically unacceptable. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the overall policy of the New Democracy Government on the Change Movement and for PASOK is a vexation in the ancient sense of the term for society, especially for young people. And after the excitement, as you know, nemesis follows and will certainly be, in our view, historically fair for your party, the nemesis that has led us to the memorial and law - abundances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u290	Thank you. Marilissa Xenonanakopoulou, SYRIZA's rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u291	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago, when the government had started to cultivate the territory to bring this counter-reformation to the insurance system in the country, I had then heard Mr Mitsotakis' financial advisor, who said on a television show - and I think in 'KATHMERINI' - that 'how long will the young people of our country finally finance the old people, the elderly and the retired?' And at that time I had thought about how much this government has been cut off and cut off its officials and advisers and all of them from the reality of the last ten years in Greece. I thought of the young children who really couldn't find a job in the crisis or who had to leave and grandparents and grandparents, the retired father gave them a 20-year-old, gave them 30 euros, so that they could get through, rang because they were on the wages of 200 euros, so they could have a level of life. What society are you addressing, Mr Ministers, when you are trying to convince the new generation and what new generation do you think you are addressing? It is not at least the majority of the country's new generation. They are young people, women and boys, who are looking for a better life, who want a job, who are at the moment dismantling the labour market, who are unemployed, who work under the minimum wage that you have even increased him, as we said, for half the couch, they are people who are struggling and do not have how to express their rights, as you criminalize the strike and every trade union and the logic you have been telling them constantly is individual. There is no collective responsibility, there is no collective claim, there is no solidarity. I also heard Mr Tsakloglu saying that, in order to address the problems of cohesion, I was surprised by the way he said it - in other words, inequality, you are coming, you say, to get a piece of capital and capitalism, so that you can come up with the problems of inequality. But is this the way to deal with inequality? Is that the way you think you're going to create security? All your policies tend to the insecurity of the Greek society and tend to increase the inequalities, from education and, of course, the degradation of public education and the exodus of thousands of young children to private colleges, from the national health system which we hear will also come tomorrow to an amendment to the invasion of private interests into the national health system, of course the work that was the escapade of this policy and of course you are now coming with this proposal for an ancillary capitalist system, which actually comes to harm the solidarity of generations, comes to affect young people themselves. This was reflected in the debate here these two days, which was a debate with many arguments on all that you and your colleagues in the Co-Population have said, all of which intensified anxiety and concern about what you are bringing. Because there's no guarantee. Because the pensions of young children really come into total uncertainty. All you can guarantee them, you say, is their contributions and inflation, so in fact all you confess is that it will be less than the supplementary pension today. And at the same time, all of this with a huge blow to the social security system itself, to an uncertainty and precariousness for the pensions themselves and the current pensioners and the future, a first major direct blow that will appear immediately and already appear to the low-pension workers, who after abolishing their thirteenth pension, now come and take the social resource you were supposed to have established a year ago in order to cover the first needs of this system and the first gaps. And, of course, it comes to future taxation, because it is hugely costly for this counter-reformation, and so it is a choice that is purely yours. It has been fully demonstrated by the debate, you have also admitted with your own position that there was no pressure, that the system is sustainable, and you yourself have confessed that the system is sustainable. In addition, there were the relevant studies by Mr Brutsi, which you have not renounced, and you have confirmed them. And you just said that it is your choice, so that, on the one hand, you say, there can be better pensions for young people, which, of course, has not been proven by any of your arguments - on the other hand - and on the other hand, the reality that you want this money to be given to specific private interests for investment. It is a violent redistribution of what you are doing with this draft law, which is at the expense of the vast majority of pensioners, today and future, of the young people themselves, but of course it is also a violent redistribution and a deadlocked overall policy that you serve. I would like to close, saying that in relation to this overall policy today more than ever does the need for another structured alternative policy. That is what we consider to be necessary, and that is what we are proposing today, and the wide social alliance of the workers, the people of the labour force, the small and mediumsized ones, the farmers and, above all, the young people. A choice that really creates the concept of security within the economy, within jobs, rights, pensions, social state. What does that mean? It means that we need another concept of the insurance system. That is why the President of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance of Alexis Tsipras said today that we will, of course, undo and dismantle this counter-reformation, as will the labour market, as well as the bankruptcy, as well as the issues you have brought to education, all these reactionary arrangements, but within a framework of a different policy that believes that the solution is another model of development, sustainable and law, which faces multiple crises. And there the work, the social state, public education, public health, a strong distribution of social security systems is not a problem, Mr Ministers and ladies and gentlemen of the House. It is a factor for this new development effort and for a fair and sustainable society. That's where we're committed and you're isolated in this House. All parties are against, most of them, but above all, the Greek people, who are looking for perspective. We are voting against and commit to this different perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, too. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Pericles Mantas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by considering a lot of what has been said in the last two days, I would like to focus on the following. The subsidiary insurance legislation introduced by the Government is a complete framework, is a planned and guaranteed, a long-term and effective environment, in which it receives a historical reform of social security in Greece. And it is historic that this reform, because for the first time in many years pensions have finally been cut off from demographic developments and the conditions of retirement have improved significantly in favour of young workers and the new generation. The debate in the Committees, but also in the plenary, was entirely democratic, but also particularly revealing, because, on the one hand, it allowed all views to be heard, giving a democratic step to every argument and to every opinion, and on the other hand, because both the huge benefits of the proposed reform and the shallowness and vacancy of the other were able to emerge. We've been telling the truth from the first moment. From the outset we have said that this project is not free and clear, there is a cost, but the cost is very small and fully managed. In other words, it is worth covering it to give our own children a new perspective. On the other hand, the Opposition and in particular the Certification of what showed us once again? Fear, reactivity, old-fashioned rhetoric and hysteria, a visually extracted entirely from the past, which gives no prospects for the future. Because no impression is given by all these cries for popular reactions, for gambling and bonds, for Golden Boys and for great private interests that are supposed to want our evil. Even the issue of unconstitutionalism has discovered, as well as gaining impressions. Every war rhetoric has been enlisted, taken out of the timeframe of history. They ripped out mud and lies, endless lies. And as if not all of this were enough, they once again attacked the Prime Minister with misgivings, serving the known tactics now of the murder of characters, to which they have been engaged for years. At the same time, we are all aware - and we are all aware - of the anxiety and the need to restore the vulnerability of Admiral Apostolakis, who have been irreparable. Whatever they said, however much they tried to cover their own demeaning announcement against him, they failed to change the data and the profound political value they finally attach: the party above all, above all, even from the country. They said about PPC, and this is where stones, ladies and gentlemen, really laugh. Those who led PPC to a step before bankruptcy have the courage to talk about PPC, which in two years has been rescued, increased its stock exchange value seven times and can stand up to the energy crisis that the whole planet is experiencing right now. Of course, there was no lack of criticism of the reshape. They served in a political struggle to disperse the personality of the new Minister of Health, Thanos Plearis, speaking of far-right, four-and-a-half years ruled along with the extreme right. How hypocrisy now! I also heard about the alleged inconsistency of the government that it is not possible for the insurance system to be sustainable, as the Minister at the time said in 2020, Mr Brutsis, but also to need reform, as is the case with today's bill. In other words, it is like saying that, because Mr Brutsis has corrected the abortion of Mr Katrugalos with the extraordinarily insurance contributions, his conversion into indirect taxation, the criminalisation of entrepreneurship and the premium for black labour, because Mr Brutsi has reformed the insurance system, we are suddenly not allowed today to want social security to become more fairer, more efficient and better, especially in the area of subsidiary. Suddenly, we become inconsistent because we want the insured to fruit the benefits of their contributions, because we want to improve the mixture of the final pension received by the worker and not by the state that has to serve him, because that is where we need to give more control to the same insured person. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are all accustomed to what has been heard here in plenary today. The fact is that, in the end, no one was convinced, and the criticism of counter-population is being easily emptied, because they have completely failed to substantiate their objections and become credible and convincing, finally proving that their motives are very humble and are being depleted exclusively in serving their opposition role. How could this great reform of our subsidiary insurance be justified, because it is credible, because it is fair, because it is studied and because it is safe, but above all, because it gives future and perspective to the most active, the most dynamic, the most productive part of the Greek society, the one of the new generation. And because, ladies and gentlemen, today is a difficult day for our country, where great Mickey Theodorakis died, let us all make sure that we do not let him down. Mickeys Theodorakis sees us from above. Let's make sure we all move on the road that he drew with our days and deeds so that with national unity we can take Greece higher. We'll take Greece higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u294	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis informs the National Representation of his decision of 2 September 2021: Mr President, I am aware that as Parliamentary Representatives of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios Pilaris and Mrs Marillena Soukoulis - Ilialis are appointed as Members of the party, Mr Theocharis Theocharis and Mrs Fotini Arabatzis. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Please, ladies and gentlemen! They don't need any comments. They're institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u295	Mr. Chacloglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u296	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will be very brief. The bill for the reform of subsidiary insurance, which is put to the vote in a few minutes at the National Representation, is a real part of social security in our country. What is envisaged is the gradual conversion of ancillary insurance from distribution to capitalisation. We don't invent the wheel. It is a reform that has been implemented in many developed countries for too many years. If anything else we are rather late and not in a hurry for this reform. These are four objectives that we are seeking to achieve with this reform. The first and most important may be the reduction of social security exposure to demographic risk. Our country is ageing and ageing fast and our entire system is overexposed to demographic risk. With this reform we are limiting this report. The second is that, based on the experience of countries that have been operating for many years, capitalisation pension insurance schemes are pensions for young pensioners significantly higher than those for the existing system. Those of the existing system, which is in this system, which we call the notorious capitalisation and zero deficit, are effectively reducing average wages over time just because of this demographic ageing. The third is that this system that we are now creating creates capital a significant part of which will be invested in the Greek economy. Investment is the feeder of growth, and unfortunately the proportion of investment in our country is far below the European average. Our fourth aim is to restore the confidence of the new generation in social security and to provide strong counter-insurance to limit uninsured work in our country. This is a long-term reform that improves the prospects of the new generation without affecting the standard of living of the pensioners of the existing system. It is a reform that we really owe to our children, but also to our grandchildren. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, too, Minister. And we close with Minister Hatzidakis' dentology. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u298	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin with the important points. Well, there's been a small technical mistake in the legal systems, and for the record, I have to record it. In Article 11(2), the last subparagraph shall be deleted, i.e. ‘If a member of the Board of Directors is removed. shall be replaced during his term of office and before he has completed three years after his appointment, the new member shall be appointed for the remainder of the term of office of his predecessor. Otherwise the new member shall be appointed for full term.’ A relevant provision has been laid down. It was accepted that this provision should be deleted and I had to mention it so that there would not be two provisions similar to each other. This debate is closed. The opposition for three months had presided over us for the neoliberal dragons and the great disasters with the wicked plans of the government. I have the impression, notwithstanding the reactions of the public, that the opposition has said them and the opposition has heard them. I do not think you have convinced anyone and, as I have told you in my previous positions, with the fanaticism and biliar spirit with which you have been placed, you have proved yourself to be the best sponsors of the Mitsotakis Government. We did nothing less, nothing more than sticking to our election commitment. We had said this since September 2018 that we will bring this arrangement. You fought her in an election. The people voted for us. We honour our election commitment and bring this arrangement in line with our programme. We are also bringing in a regulation that follows what is being done in all the advanced European states. We're bringing an arrangement that, due to the individual pigeon we import, the new will have control over his pension. We are bringing an arrangement which, precisely because of this link between the insured person and pensioning, combats tax evasion. And ultimately on the basis of European experience, based on the experience of the countries that have started to implement this system, we are driving for young people to pensions considerably larger than the present ones. In an hour's time, I have no doubt that the opposition will vote against this reform here. More above the interest of young people you put your party fanaticism, a micro-party perception, your ideas and doctrines. Your vision is obviously the problems and deficits of the Ionian People's Fund and LEPETE, because this is the current situation. On the contrary, Europe is our vision, and that is our difference. So don't ask yourself about the results of the polls. Because the world has been liberated from its bonds and sees beyond doctrines and parties what really serves it. From 1-1-2022 young people who will first enter the labour market will join this system, but can join this system and young people under thirty-five years of age. I am sure that young people under thirty-five years will choose to join for the very simple reason that they will want instead of being simple numbers throwing their money in a bucket to be able to control their pension and get a higher pension from 43% to 68% compared with today's pensions. So they will, ladies and gentlemen, close their ears to your cries and to your doctrines because young people want new things. They will choose their interest, they will choose the modern European reform that we are adopting today. So I am proud that for eight months I have been involved in an experiment that had already begun before I went to the Ministry and for which the Deputy Minister, Professor Tsakloglou, was responsible with his team. We are therefore bringing together, despite these dogmatic and backward reactions, a modern reform that should have taken place for years. Once again we are with Europe, once again we are with common sense, once again we are with modern reforms. You are with your ideas, with your populism, with your doctrines. People judge and compare. Read the polls, take your conclusions sometime. It will be useful for the political life of the place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u300	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: 'Security reform for New Generation: the introduction of a capitalisation system for predefined contributions to subsidiary insurance, the establishment, organisation and operation of an Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund and related provisions' is finalised. We move on to vote on the principle of the law, the articles and the whole of them, and they will be voted on separately. In principle, on Articles 1 to 73 and 81, an article — and on the whole of the draft law — has been applied for a roll-call vote by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u301	A request has also been made for a roll-call vote on the principle of the articles, ministerial amendments Nos 1045/71 and 1052/77, and on the whole of the bill by Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u302	Finally, a request has been made for a roll-call vote on the start of the bill by Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u303	I will not read out the list of Members' signatures because, because of the special circumstances, we believe there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for their submission. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that the three votes should be taken together in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u304	The House unanimously admitted. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u305	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on the principle of Articles 1 to 81, on Amendments Nos 1045/71 and 1052/77 and on the whole of the draft law. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened. Because there are too many colleagues in the Chamber who are completing the vote, I would ask you, for health reasons, to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u306	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House with whom they make their votes known. These votes will be taken into account in the count which will be followed. [[The letters referred to above are lodged in the minutes and are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u307	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. In principle, 299 Members voted on the articles and amendments. In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 141 Members voted against. No one voted. The result of the roll-call vote will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and will appear on the screens of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u308	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: ‘Security Reform for New Generation: introducing a capitalisation system for predefined contributions to subsidiary insurance, establishing, organising and operating a Capital Insurance Fund and related provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in the first instance, of articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u309	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u310	Authorization has been provided. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-02-S1-commons.u311	With the consent of the House at 22.03 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 3 September 2021, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum: "Reform procedures for expulsion and return of citizens of third countries, attracting investors and digital nomads, issues of residence permits and procedures for granting international protection, and other provisions of responsibility of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum and the Ministry of Civil Protection".
