ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 13-1-2021 authorisation, the minutes of its First Meeting of Wednesday, 13 January 2021 concerning the vote on the entire draft law were ratified by the Bureau: ‘Modernisation of the system of recruitment in the public sector and strengthening the Higher Council on Personnel Selection (PSC) and other provisions’.]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: 'Application of draft conventions in the field of defence'. The above bill after the decision, taken by the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, on a proposal from the relevant Minister, is discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure in accordance with Rule 76(5) of the Constitution and Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 12 January 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting on principle and on articles. In particular, with regard to the organisation of the debate, it is proposed that, apart from the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives, as well as the Ministers who will be involved in a natural presence, we add two courses of speakers to this debate by teleconferencing via the Webex platform. I would remind you that the times of rapporteurs and special speakers are twelve minutes of the prology and six seconds of the second, the parliamentary representatives have one position of twelve minutes and the other Members who will speak via Webex, because of the urgency, will have five minutes of speaking time. The issue is a particular, sensitive one, and I am sure that the debate in this House today will be at the level of the seriousness of the matter. So we shall begin with the rapporteur-general from New Democracy, Mr Garylos Lazaridis. Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am one of those who firmly believe that the country's largest weapon is its national consensus and national consensus and is renewed and reflected in the non-negotiable will, but also in the mandate of the Greek people for preparedness and determination in the face of any challenge that our country is facing. That is exactly what the Greek Government is doing and with great success. It responds crucially and effectively to all levels of national security, health, economic, social and national. Ladies and gentlemen, the Latins said 'if you want peace, prepare for war'. They certainly meant that a condition that is inexcusable to ensure long-term peace is to strengthen in every way its deterrent, so that no one can even enter into the thought that it can hurt you, that it can exploit your potential weaknesses. It is well known that Greece has always sought and sought peace. What is not certain is what the eastern neighbour of Erdogan is looking for especially now that Erdogan's personal neo-ethnic malaise can lead to dangerous atrocities. The feud of provocativeness we lived in Evros last March, but also August in the Aegean Sea, are peaks of an aggression that has been maintained every day over the last two years. We, as our first priority, put the persistent investment in diplomacy, an investment that has already borne fruit that has never come to date, as has been done with the agreements on demarcation of maritime zones and the development of an exclusive economic zone with Italy and Egypt, as is done by investing in multi-dimensional tripartite and quadripartite partnerships with Israel, Cyprus and Egypt, as is the case with the growing of new strong alliances, such as the United Arab Emirates and the Arab world in general, and as is the case with the support we are pursuing and ensuring from our European allies. In this context, to make an up-to-date observation, it also falls under the resumption of discussions with Turkey, whose start-up hopes will make a substantial contribution to improving our relations and not be a pretext on the part of Turkey. I return to diplomacy by saying that this is how we create a multi-level grid of non-violent relationships based on international legality. We call on anyone who wants to build the future of our relationships on this very basis. However, apart from supporting our allies, I take the view that in any case we must be ready to deal with any potential. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is blessed. He has a brave people who loves his country and is inspired by it. It's a beautiful country with a key geostrategic position. But this position has its price, and this is no more than an obligation to ensure its integrity and its defence against any entrepreneur. Obligation to always have the country in a timely manner in such a way that it can exploit its comparative advantages. We are opting for the irrationality of the threats to respond with a strengthening of our deterrent power because we believe that by forging our defence we are establishing the conditions for peace. That's exactly what we're doing today. So today we are here to approve three draft procurement contracts. These concern the acquisition of six new and twelve used French fighter Rafah, the related items and services, their subsequent support between the Ministry of National Defence and the manufacturers of the above weapons systems. We have come here in a very short time since the whole process began, we dominate and in a few months we will also have the tangible results of this ratification, namely the integration of the first six Raphah fighters into the arsenal of our Air Force. Even the greatest achievement is that at the same time as aircraft delivery, it is planned to have weapons, that is, our fighters will come along with all types of missiles. This is excellent news for their operational performance. All this through contracts which ensure and guarantee the legality and transparency of such a supply. We have never concealed that the negotiations were difficult and demanding, but they are fully satisfying the Greek side, since we have managed to meet the objections to terms of payments, to letters of guarantee, to the procedure of receipt of a contractual item, to impose a fine on late delivery, to impose administrative sanctions on late delivery, to liability against third parties and the conditions of arbitration and dispute resolution. For these reasons, I must once again congratulate the parties directly involved here, namely the General Staff of National Defence, the Air Force General Staff, the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment and Investment and particularly the political leader of the Hellenic Armed Forces, the Minister of National Defence Mr. Nikos Panayotopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, the market for French fighters Rafah and the weapons they incorporate is for our defence what is the pandemic vaccine. It gives us the opportunity to change the conditions towards the one that evokes daily challenges and threats. It gives us the opportunity to acquire a strategically suitable weapon, cut and sewn to the operational needs of the country. It gives us the opportunity to positively overthrow the quality balances in the Eastern Mediterranean, Cyprus and the Middle East with choices that offer their immediate operational exploitation and technical features that will give the Air Force unique capabilities of air sovereignty and leadership. They offer Air Force an integrated and mature technological design with a wide range of weapons and especially strategic weapons that make a difference, such as SCALP missiles, EXOCET, MICA and METEO. They offer a combination of a large load of arms with a large radius of action, making it an ideal fighter for air operations in the Eastern Mediterranean and Cyprus. Ladies and gentlemen, the acquisition of the French Rafalis beyond the fact that it builds up an axis that brings our country's vital interests together with those of one of the largest European players and the only permanent member of the Security Council in the European Union, France, is yet another in the series of options for the country's defensive upgrading, such as the updating of our defence agreement with the United States and the upgrading of the F-16 fighter fleet in a way that will give Greece a qualitative advantage over Turkey's quantitative advantage as, according to the construction company, Greece after upgrading and modernising the F-16 will have the most advanced fighters in Europe and the wider area with a positive domino for what this means to stimulate the domestic defence industry, state and private, through the know-how we have and, of course, the creation of new jobs. This is also supported by the corresponding upgrading of the smaller fleet of the Air Force, the Miraz 2000-5. I am well aware of this as in December 2019 they had the honour of being the rapporteur of the government majority in that draft law. And I am sure that we will soon be in this Chamber again to update the political will of Prime Minister Mitsotakis' government to further upgrade our defence capabilities. With its key choices, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis creates mighty Armed Forces in a way that responds to his needs today, but also remain up-to-date in tomorrow's challenges. This complements the three-fold power level based on national homogeneity, deterrent power and diplomatic sovereignty. So every Greek woman and every Greek can feel absolutely safe and secure as their Government demonstrates every day its intimate reflexes, its determination and its readiness to cope successfully with any national or healthal challenge facing her, making the country and its citizens proud. And that, of course, is a national effort. So I would like here to address the colleagues and colleagues of the Civilian Opposition Party who until yesterday afternoon, through his rapporteur, expressed reservations and to tell them not to make the national mistake of voting 'Failures' as they did in the United States Defence Agreement or in the upgrading of F-16 fighters and the support of the Miraz 2000-5 and as they recently did with the costs of the Ministry of National Defence in the current budget. Let us not hide behind our finger, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. The 'Preparations' in the House today means 'abs' from national co-operation. I sincerely hope that by your vote today you will finally be present at the required national consensus. We, as a New Democracy, are proud to vote in favour of strengthening our national defence. As I said in committee, today's debate can remain in history and the potential history of this sitting is therefore to do with what you choose. Does it choose the loneliness of party ostrichism or accession to the collective perception of national interest? So I urge you once again to vote in favour of this draft law for a simple reason, so that we can pass a strong message in every direction that all of us representatives of the Greek people say unanimously 'Yes' as a fist in strengthening our Armed Forces. Consider what impact this will have on the morale, but also on the hearts and minds of those who will finally use it, to the heroes of our ethers, to the fighters of the Aegean! Come all together and give new meaning to our national unity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u3	The rapporteur, Mr George Tsipras, has the floor from the political opposition party. Here, Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with the comparison of the vaccine, that the Rafah is the vaccine in Greek-Turkish relations. Let's keep a little lower tone. I'm not going to talk about vaccine, pandemic, etc. But even the Rafalus for national defenses under no circumstances constitute a vaccine and much more panacea. Defense serves foreign policy and not foreign defence policy. What is the first and most important is the country's foreign policy, a foreign policy which, for example, is not served by the fact that the first time a Prime Minister to meet an American president does not affect the issue of Turkish violations in the Aegean. It is not served by the fact that for the first time in the presence of a Greek Prime Minister at the UN General Assembly does not raise the issue of the Cyprus issue and so on. No armaments programme can give us a solution to what foreign policy serves. What is dominating is the political will to defend national sovereignty and sovereign rights, and that is what deterrent power and the Armed Forces are serving backwards. If foreign policy cannot do so or - even worse - it does not want to do so, no defence, no armaments program, no plane, no Raphael will guarantee us. I will not open up a debate on foreign policy, but because my fellow Member, like others from the majority, like to repeat the fact that we have been building relations, I would like to say very simply that you have been eating from'ready' for a year and a half now. What you are talking about, namely in relations with Israel, Egypt or the United Arab Emirates, was built by 90% in the years of SYRIZA governance. Overall, tripartite patterns and partnerships and other bilateral partnerships both to the Balkans and to the Eastern Mediterranean and to the Middle East were built ours in the years. So far you have eaten from'ready'. Even relations with France and with the European South have been built in our years. The more you went to bring, the possible Mutual Defense Assistance Agreement with France, unfortunately it is not on the table. But I want to limit myself a little to defence. The country's defensive expenditures from 2009 to 2014 - because there is the nerve to refer to the fact that we said'residents' in the defence budget - were reduced by 50%. That number doesn't change, no matter what you do. They're down by 50%! The SYRIZA governance has stabilised and increased - at the very short time, unfortunately, that could increase, based on the fact that we are in a suffocating memorandum and were facing hostile Brussels on this issue and just in 2018, and then we got some air - by 7%. We have less than 50% in one case and plus 7% in the other. However, I am not going to stay on the question of the level of expenditure. I will, above all, stick to the point that it preceded about a decade without a prior stagnation in the situation of the country's Armed Forces, not on equipment but on the situation of the armed systems. We're talking about their ageing, their non-renewal, their inefficiency. And, of course, the fact that for many decades we have been buying weapons systems without taking care of their support, arms, etc., we have paid it very expensively. And that hasn't changed now. It's changed these days. We ourselves launched, among other things, the upgrading of the F-16s which was the first major equipment programme - although it was not a new market, but an upgrade - after many years. You continue today - or we want to hope that you continue - on the steps of our own strategic defence planning. One thing I would like to begin by pointing out is that our positive attitude to the Rafael issue has one condition. The condition is that it does not overturn that defensive planning of the country, which you continued until at least summer 2020, which provided for the country's ability to defend its sovereign rights not only in the Aegean, but also in the eastern part, with what that means. That's the term. So far it has not been overturned and we hope it will not be overturned. You are bringing a Raphael Convention to the House, which is extremely problematic both from the point of view of the procedure and from the point of view of the substance. You are accusing us that any attitude other than 'yes' means that we are national absentees. Who are national absentees, when you bring a contract within three days - Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday - where three meetings of the Committee on National Defence must be held, on the third day to go to plenary, that no committee meeting on armaments has taken precedence, and that we should not be able to have a debate on a fundamental issue of crucial - 'embol' - was previously called by my colleague for Greek-Turkish - such as a market of over 2 billion euros for a critical weapon system? Who's nationally absenteeism? Couldn't we have a week? Couldn't other procedures have been planned? Do not invoke the rush of what is happening with Greek-Turkish. What is happening with Greek-Turkish is a hurry that something must be done this year or in the current semester or in the next quarter and not two years. This, yes, not to discuss within three days a matter of this kind which should take at least one week and have the time for all the parties in this House to be informed of both the obvious facts and the secrets. Why, Minister, did we do it like this? It cannot be an excuse to have a signed contract before the French Minister arrives. That is unacceptable. You are destroying part of the Greek legislation that you yourself anticipated, Mr. Avramopoulos as Minister of National Defence, before we rule. You're coming for such a big deal and you're ruining it. It is a pretext that there are two, three points on which Greek legislation does not cover this Convention. It is a pretext, because everything else could be done and come to Parliament as well. That's not why. The question is: What is it all so quickly? Why would we come to vote on a contract that is far beyond perforated? I will say to you in very simple words: if everything goes well, that is, if the eighteen fighters have no problem, neither the new nor the more - because there is the risk - the second-handed ones do not have a problem, they are reliable and do not have a problem in the future, if the agreement with support is normally executed, without stumbling, without problems, if the Arming Agreement is implemented normally without problems and is all good, nor is it a cat nor a harm. We didn't miss anything. But problems usually arise in these agreements and when we talk about such complex systems, problems occur. And the problem with the contract is that the Greek State is not guaranteed against them. You have not, in other words, ensured the interests of the Greek State if something goes wrong. It is for the benefit of the French people that the performance of the contract will be left to our advantage. I will only mention some of them, because most of them have not been answered. Firstly, there is a matter of receipt. We are obliged to receive without having ensured what we receive, and this concerns, in particular, second-hand people for whom there is absolutely no guarantee. Secondly, the specifications of the material we receive are extremely limited. Thirdly, while a large number of the three French companies are defined as a general factor, they do not bear the burdens of a coordinator, i.e. in the event of a conflict with either of the other parties, to assume responsibility for resolving the conflict. We're on the air together. We'll have paid 60% before we pick up an aircraft and if there's a collision - we're in the air and no one guarantees us about it. The commitment time of the French company to support is very little. Even worse - this is a crucial point - it is not even anticipated after that - there is no provision for the time-limit for granting authorisations to the Greek industries to replace the one who is no longer committed to providing support. Overall, no participation by the Greek defence industry - not only EAB necessarily - is foreseen in this programme, while you and the Prime Minister himself in Thessaloniki in September, in order to support these options of the Raphalls, made a great deal of mention of the issue of the Greek defence industry. There is no preparatory work for us, then. There is an explicit reference to the fact that there may be a problem with spare parts, especially for used parts. Finally, as far as the resolution of legal disputes is concerned, although Greek law applies, Greek law will apply it not a Greek court, not the Council of State, but the ICC. In addition, as far as training is concerned, certificates, based on the existing experience of other aircraft, are absolutely incomplete. Finally, no satisfactory response has been given to the issue of old French aircraft, which we cannot and cannot support. The return of these is not within the contract, which means even greater costs for the Rafahs that we are buying. That means practically. I would like to remind you that in the summer when the Rafah debate started and started by the government, it began along with a debate on France's aid in the conditions that we have been facing since the summer and then in the Eastern Mediterranean. Apparently, it didn't happen by accident. I am not saying that there has been no opening of such a debate in fact, nor that it has been an invention, but that a defence agreement has been used to close down - in any case, whether or not we are having a good choice of Raphala. This conversation has left the table today. One cannot remain in the assurances of the Minister for Defence and others that there is still a defensive agreement. There has always been the possibility of defensive agreements with France, perhaps with the United States, etc. That's not what he's saying. From the table he's gone. The deal, the contract will be signed. So the bird flew, when the conditions with the European Union have become more unfavourable than last summer. We are at an even worse end, and that makes the movements of forces more difficult, like France. So I come to the result. What's SYRIZA's attitude? I will tell you clearly this: Under normal circumstances no political power, no party, much more the Civic Opposition, could sign a contract that is perforated and can give birth - we are saying this clearly and we warn about it clearly - major problems of protecting the public interest in the future. He can have a baby. I wish it wouldn't. Since we are not a New Democracy - and I will explain this immediately - we will vote in favour with huge reservations and will renounce all responsibility for what this convention can give rise to, the negative results, that is, for the Greek State. We are voting in favour provided that the strategic defence planning of the country that gave priority until last summer will not be overturned. Otherwise there's a problem with the Raphael choice. We are voting in favour, because we are not a New Democracy. Mr President, the 'present' we have given to the defence budget and we have done very well is because we simply have no confidence in you at all, not that we want to increase defence expenditure. We have no confidence in you at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u5	Finish, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u6	I'll be done. You, when we applied the Prespecies Agreement, did the basic part on the subject of the complex name 'erga omnes', collaborating with rallys that didn't want any reference to the term, no geographical definition, nothing - while your problem was supposed to be something else, it was about the language issue and the issue of the travel documents - you described it as your officials as treacherous - and you created a huge mess, just to get the elections. The current Foreign Minister has said about the agreement that it could be better, which means it was a good deal, and that is the reality. You kept a stop over it irresponsible. But it's not just the Prespecies Agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Tsipras, I can't give you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u8	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u9	Yeah, you've said that five times.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u10	For four years you have been destructive every day for the economy. Even on foreign policy issues, every day, of the two officers arrested on Evros, the eight who came after the Erdogan coup, until the Erdogan visit, you had a constant disaster. We, because we are not a New Democracy, will vote with great reservations on this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u11	Now is the reason for the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Chamber of Deputies is today discussing the draft law on the adoption of three draft contracts in the field of defence that provide for the supply of eighteen fighter Rafah aircraft, their weapon system and then both support. Counterparties of four French companies. The Change Movement comes to this debate, without the divisive "we and you", with a nationally responsible attitude and a pure "yes" to the need to supply the Rafahs who decisively strengthens the deterrent power of the Armed Forces and in this case our Air Forces. At the same time, our responsible attitude dictates that, through our criticism, the shortcomings and the possibilities for better contracts and the submission of concrete proposals for what can be corrected by a Parliament decision. Our aim is the best result for our national defence, with the guarantee of logistical security of the Armed Forces, the service of the public interest with maximum transparency, and the development of cooperation and partnerships between the operations of our country's National Defence Industry, with the French companies. But let us see the environment in which we are currently moving, the main feature of which is Turkey's escalating aggression in its review strategy, regardless of the masks it wears - not health, but policies - Mr Erdogan. A Turkey, which has been devastated by the fear of the European Union for sanctions and purposes, of course, some of its powerful countries, such as Germany. All of this has demonstrated the important strategy deficit that exists both in Europe and in our country. The two hundred years anniversary of the Revolution of 1921 should focus on a message: to what the Greeks have achieved, united with faith in the goals and Greece, and to what they have lost or suffered divided and undivided and with our homeland humiliated. This historical lesson is not bright nowadays. I note that the Government and Civic Opposition to their alternating roles as governments in recent years have refused and refused to consult on our national issues, but they have sought and sought opposition. This dangerous little kitten must be finished. Government failures cannot be micro-party benefits for opposition, when it comes to national issues and untrustworthy opposition cannot be an alibi for government inactions, failures and purposes. They are wounds that are open, they are harming the country and the citizens and they are hard to heal. PASOK and the Change Movement with its patriotic starting point and path firmly supports the need for national understanding in an institutional way, for a strong national strategy that will decapitate our country from the tactical and new deadlocks. In November 2019, with the first phase of the escalation from Turkey, with the new data, we requested, in addition to effective diplomatic intervention in the European Union, the simultaneous strengthening of the deterrent power of the Armed Forces. The Government of New Democracy, instead of promoting the armaments programmes that had been stuck in previous years either by a need at the heart of the crisis or by a political choice during the SYRIZA government, recommended to Parliament a reduction in the budget for defensive expenditure, which the New Democracy Government and SYRIZA jointly voted on. They voted for the reduction. The Change Movement voted against this reduction and was criticised by various tubers, etc. But he was quick. In the summer the government came and recommended amending the budget and increasing the defensive expenditure. This year the Change Movement voted for the 2 billion euro increase that the government rightly recommended for the 2021 budget for defence expenditure. At the same time, we have demanded speeding up the critical armaments programmes, with transparency and an operational development and reinforcement plan for our defence industry, which has essentially been abandoned for six years now. At this point I would like to refer to the moves of greater importance, which relate to the juncture. The agreement on the EEZ with Italy ratified by the Greek Parliament is very important. It had as a follow-up a partial and urgent agreement with Egypt, due to the illegal Turkish pact, but the window left to complete it, without the propulsion of a national strategy that does not exist, has so far remained untapped. Also, the important decision on the draft law discussed in the Committee on Foreign and Defence Affairs on the extension of the territorial waters from six to twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea, unfortunately, stops at Cape Tinaro, leaving the Continuous Area to date in the west and south of Crete. The extension from six to twelve nautical miles and in this region to the west and south of Crete, in the view of the Change Movement, had to take precedence over the repetition of exploratory talks, which, in any case, concern Greece and International Law only a continental continental continental shelf. So today we are discussing in plenary the adoption of the three conventions on the procurement of the eighteen Rafah fighter aircraft their equipment and their subsequent maintenance. It must be clear that this is an important and catalytic procurement. The Rafalus is part of our strategic capabilities, which can change the data in the wider operational area of interest of the Hellenic Air Force, the Armed Forces and our country in general, to change the balances as an excellent multiplier, strengthening the deterrent and repressive power of the Armed Forces that, together with an effective foreign policy will defend our national sovereign rights. That is why we have said a pure 'yes' for their supply. At the same time, however, unfortunately, a negative reality arises for our country and this is the lack of long-term planning - what planning should it be overturned, so since it was not there? - which is also caused by the lack of a national strategy. And I would like to explain that the government's response is positive, even at only five. But it had to be action. It should not have arisen from the emergency, but from the provision of care for the one which at the same time could have been completely dissuasive. A equipment design of the Armed Forces which has not been carried out in recent years. Neither did the former SYRIZA government nor the New Democracy Government do it in a year and a half that is in government. After all, the Minister for National Defence admitted that on 17 December 2020 to the committee. This lack of long-term defensive planning has also led to the government's choice to circumvent the institutionalised procedures of the current law 3978/2011 that had come to shield the process of armaments. This means bypassing the risks that may exist. He may be the one to sign on behalf of the Ministry of Defence, after Parliament has been approved, covered by this decision. However, there are a number of gaps ahead of us, and the problem of contracts, unfortunately, exists. Experience says that their errors and results are later revealed and it is characteristic that it has only recently been revealed that in January 2019, an agreement had been reached in principle and a decision of the Defence Council to delegate the work of the Kalamata Air Center with 800 million more than some months later the same company asked for the same project, but with another Minister and with another government. I am not expanding, Minister, because it is another issue, but we have tabled a question and a request for documents and we will insist. We will not let you avoid answering and giving us the evidence. I return to the draft law and to the relevant conventions, to stress that once again the government comes to Parliament at the last minute, without giving the necessary time for studying a country's defence-critical choice. It is worth noting, however, that we have been supplying a single package of weapons and weapons and their subsequent support with which the conventions have had problems since the first time. And that is good for operational development, but it needed better preparation. In these conventions, there are issues on which we have spoken to the committees and to the confidential information, such as the receipt procedure and, in particular, the second-hand process, the lack of provision of our right to extend agreements, the duration of the obligation of suppliers to support the system with spare parts - which is only twenty-five years - the duration of the subsequent support - which should be almost double - the quantity and timing of the delivery of weapons systems, but also the disconnection with the Miraz return agreement. Great, however, is the lack of framework for cooperation and synergy with the National Defence Industry, private and state. Unfortunately, there is no provision for industrial refunds either in production or in maintenance, a process which would enable the defence industry in our country to be supported and restructured. It is not possible for a contract close to EUR 2.5 billion not to confer a significant national industrial and social benefit. I submitted the information to you in the corresponding Indian procurement. You gave the answers you think they are. It's an example. Our country's domestic defence industry - state and private - has enormous potential. He has problems, which the government had to deal with so far and has not done. Cooperation could concern, firstly, the issue of repairs and maintenance of aircraft and their accessories, secondly, maintenance and renewal of lifetime in selected aircraft missile systems and thirdly, training and retraining of human resources. These are top errors and not only, of course, the Ministry of Defence, which invokes the fact that he is a customer in EAV and other businesses, but not responsible for strengthening the Greek Defence Industry, which, however, can also contribute decisively to strengthening our country's deterrent capacity at a time when Turkish aggression takes dangerous proportions, but also in economic and social development, which can in turn be a decisive factor in the overall increase of power. Why should the ODA not offer a project on maintenance and infrastructure, factory maintenance or other matters? Why not allow defence workers in our country to gain further access to top-tech systems of strategic importance for its defence? Our country is not allowed to lose such opportunities. You know that ten years ago, ODA participated in an unmanned fighter production programme with the French company in maintenance and education, which even allowed postgraduate studies at the time. Today, much more could be done and we have proposed to you an operational development plan, but the ministries responsible for you have not exploited it. The Change Movement along with the national "yes" to the Rafah supply requires transparency and security of the public interest, but also the logistical security of the Armed Forces. It requires cooperation with the Greek Defence Industry - state and private - which we believe has an excellent dynamic and can appropriately contribute to economic and social development. To this end, we have tabled an amendment which does not in principle bring into line with the French, as reflected in the three draft conventions, but lays down obligations of the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Kegeroglu, you need to finish it, don't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u14	I'm done. Firstly, on the appropriate steps to promote cooperation with the domestic defence industry and business register held at the Ministry of Defence and, secondly, on the mandatory and not potential half-yearly updates of the Equipment Programmes Committee on the progress of the implementation of contracts at meetings exclusively on this subject. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this is a glorious field of glory to show that it was not appropriate to omit what we have put forward and to have fun of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u15	Good. The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Papanastassis, now has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. The Government now submits to Parliament the bill for the purchase of 12 second-hand and six new French Ruffalo aircraft, while on this basis it is engaged in over-optimistic positions to change the military correlation between Greece and Turkey. This agreement cannot be seen by the geopolitical developments in our region. There are rapid developments in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Middle East and the Persian Gulf. We see the thermometer in the Gulf region, which is a timeless theatre of strong monopolistic interests, rising dangerously. The governments of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and PASOK have given land and water to American imperialism. They are responsible for the installation and use of US bases in Greece, bases used in aggressive missions, murder operations. And now the Government of New Democracy is preparing an even more dangerous package for expanding the print, as it says, in Greece, which is a great threat to our people and other peoples. The Governments of the SYRIZA and the New Democracy have advocated military relations with Israel, with the state - murderer of the Palestinian people, with the state that is leading the threats to the Iranian and other peoples of the region. Relations with Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia are being claimed, which you are projecting as an advantage. But these states are involved in dangerous competition, in catastrophic warfare. You sent Greek Armed Forces to imperialistic missions abroad. We ask what the Greek Armed Forces are doing outside the border? Why are you sending military forces to Mali, Africa? Why are you sending units of the extremely expensive Patriot anti-missile system to Saudi Arabia? In addition, all parties have declared the imperialist NATO and the European Union's imperialist unions to the depositary of the country's sovereign rights, that is to say, those who are now 'blocking' and who are constantly challenging the question of Greece's sovereign rights by the Turkish leadership. What is the result of all this? The result is that Greece follows a steady course of even more intense involvement in the competitive bucket, with the situation in Greek-Turkish relations becoming ever more dangerous. Painful compromises are being prepared for the consideration of the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean, compromises leading to the division of Cyprus, through the logic of the two states and a confederative solution. In these dangerous designs of American inspiration and implementation, Greece's bourgeoisie seeks an upgraded role and suited to its needs. In this direction they are moving, not only the Raphael market, but also the more recent developments, such as: The signing of an economic agreement and military co-operation with the United Arab Emirates, with the "Blessings" always in the United States. The implementation of a defensive agreement of $1.68 billion between Greece and Israel, which, among other things, provides for the operation of an international training centre for the Air Force in Kalamata. The planned participation of the Greek Navy in a new multinational force in the Gulf, under the pretext of protecting international navigation, which will also act as a "damaklios broken" against Iran. At the same time, the country as a whole has continued to be transformed into a war bay of the Americans, in an advanced anchorage of the American 6th Fleet, with the incorporation of basic infrastructure, ports, shipyards, etc., in its murder plan. This policy is being expelled and the mission of parts of the Armed Forces out of the border. For all this, we are addressing the people. We tell him not to squeeze on the dooms of government, to judge on the basis of his experience of endless and very detrimental to his own interests and rights of competition in military armaments. They are paid with billions of euros through their own unbearable taxation, without serving the country's defence needs, but NATO's needs. We recall that very recently, when the Turkish research vessel "ORUC REIS" organized the region of Kastelorizos and the military fleets of Greece and Turkey were on hand, there was a bar of projection of the role of the Greek submarines, the "invisible", as they were described, showing, as has repeatedly been said, the supremacy of the Greek Hellenic Navy. At the same time, however, we know that Turkey will receive from Germany six submarines of type 214, equal or possibly higher class from Greeks. In order to stop this order handled by the German group "THYSSENKRUPP". It raises the issue of a more general arms embargo in Turkey from Germany and other Member States - members of the European Union and NATO. But a voice of voodoo in the desert, because imperialist cooperation, alliances and relations are built on the basis of economic and geostrategic interests. It was also found that two other allies of the government, Italy and Spain, have concluded hundreds of millions of agreements with Turkey on the supply of modern weapons and means and, among them, the construction of the modern aircraft of Anadolu, already built with Spanish standards. All this leads to the conclusion that government claims are in the air. Similar overestimates have also been experienced in previous governments of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA. We leave the mediation of PASOK ministers, the circuits and mechanisms that have shown how rotten the system is, and we only say that billions of euros have been spent with the various armaments programs of the century and other orders, which have cost the people dearly, to emphasise that even if temporary balance is achieved, it can then be changed irreversibly with the markets of the neighbouring country, which has also created a strong state war industry. The same is happening today. The time-long armaments and all governments are adapted to NATO's specifications, designs and needs. They have no starting point in the needs of the country's defence, with all governments having huge responsibilities for the degradation and orientation of the defence industry, its course of privatisation. New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA, and the other parties have accepted and respect the religious commitment that the country should pay 2% of GDP to military expenditure, giving out of the hard tax of the Greek people 4 billion euros a year, i.e. 45 billion euros in a decade. Where's this huge sum going? All governments are exposed irreparablely. You have celebrated, in addition to the misleading controversy, the accession of Western Balkan countries to NATO and the European Union. The government of SYRIZA "insulted" the accession of northern Macedonia to NATO, and you all agreed with the naval obligation to use Greek aircraft to guard their borders. You have implemented and implemented these policing flights, as you say, expensive Greek war aircraft, wasting their valuable and expensive hours of life in Albania, Montenegro, Bulgaria, northern Macedonia and Kosovo. And you come today to those conditions that unrealisticly expose you and ask for a consensus on the Rafahs market, which the people pay for with EUR 2.3 billion - why? - to use these in the same way. These are the consequences of the painful situation your policy has created. Do not have deceit that you can mislead and deceive the people. The techniques of manipulation of workers do not go through the problems or the logic of national unity, which is an instrument for supporting anti-grassroots policy and for subjecting the people to the elephants of the bourgeoisie. As far as the Raphael market is concerned, we have a lot of experience of what armaments are going to mean. From this hunt earned mainly is the martial production industries. They're literally sacrificing. But in the case of our country there is another winner. It is NATO's wolf alliance, which is pleased to see its south-eastern wing becoming equipped. Let's not hide behind our finger. NATO's first and main concern is in every way to strengthen it in the context of a circle of isolation in Russia and addressing the rapid rise in China. Therefore, there is no need for restrictions. The opposition expressed by the Communist Party expresses the enormous anxieties of a large part of our people, a multiple of their electoral percentage. It expresses people who realize that instead of sweating them into a shield against Turkish provocativeness in the Aegean and Eastern Mediterranean, it actually strengthens NATO's war machines, that is, the one with its attitude symptoms and dismantles Turkish aggression. I have left one last point which I intend to raise in these debates'shoot under the carpet'. It is about the tens of thousands of officers and soldiers of the Armed Forces. It concerns working and living conditions. All these people are in serious trouble. It is characteristic that our soldiers, the fanatics, take the degrading salary of 8,62 euros to cover everything that the agency does not grant them. They are problems that, although they themselves persistently and intensely highlight them, are unresolved. They are the ones that are the main force factor in the Armed Forces. In conclusion, the Communist Party of Greece in the budget debate voted against military expenditure. He described them as "cut and stitched into the patron of naval needs". We will also vote against today's Rafael Market bill, continuing to reveal your plans, strengthening the effort to develop the common struggle of the peoples of the region against the urban ranks and imperialist alliances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u17	The reason is the special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Antonis Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the first day we have sworn to the House, we have made a promise that we will do everything we will do, we will work night, we will make proposals, we will denounce Greece and everything that is in the interest of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, when we understood what was happening with the equipment and with the weapons systems in the Armed Forces in September 2019, and when the Turk next to us was beginning to be angry, because it was ready for so many years that we had forgotten the Armed Forces, we sat down and we did a serious job as a parliamentary group. We did a serious job, apart from other issues of economy, education, labour, foreign affairs, the Armed Forces. After a lot of study, our proposal from the beginning was that the fleet of combat aircraft was to be upgraded immediately or had to be renewed in part. The President, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, lifted the phone, Minister, and made the proposal for this aircraft, which you brought to the House today, the Rafalis F3-R, this super gun, that it must and is necessary for our Air Force. I think that is not disputed by anyone. We therefore feel justified because our proposal, like other proposals, has found positive ground and I believe they will continue to find positive ground from the government, since all our proposals are in favour of the country and in favour of the public interest and the Greek people. 'If you want peace,' Minister, 'Preparate for war'. I think that this is acceptable to everyone, and we are all striving for our national defence. I don't believe there's anyone in here who doesn't want our national sovereignty. But, in order to exercise diplomacy, foreign policy, to be sure of the deterrent ability of the Armed Forces, they must be properly equipped. You know what? It's very sad, but we have to admit it, because I think we as a movement brought something different, like other movements, but let me talk about the Greek Solution. We brought the new one. We do not care about the party or the vote. We're honestly talking to you. And it says a man who first entered the House and could have been in the past few years. I don't care and I don't care about the President, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, nor about the MPs. But when we get out of here, we're interested in saying that we've got something, a little stone, to change that political thought. Don't say outside people "no, the politicians" and turn the back. Oh, no! It is a good thing that diplomatic alliances, Minister, are good for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of course there must be diplomacy, but to have diplomacy and to be able to implement your foreign policy, you must have powerful Armed Forces. There is no such tale, and it must be left from all of us, for 'International Law', 'Treaty Law'. Halima's fairy tales! There is the law of the mighty. Are you strong? You do what you want. Now let's go see why the Armed Forces must be made strong. It is not just the staff, ladies and gentlemen, which is excellent. They are trained day and night and the officers and officers, our officers and soldiers, these children, our own children, who are taken by officers and officers eighteen years old, twenty years old unmistakable and make men to defend our homeland, to defend our national territory. The doctrine is double: Prevention and defense. I don't think anyone believes in here right now that we're ready to be prevented. Preventing means as soon as Erdogan has his mind to do something in Greece, to think "I am finished". But, in order to think about this, we must have given the necessary tools to people who are struggling with the Hoods, and these are the strains of the Armed Forces. I shall refer to what has really happened with the Armed Forces over the last fifteen years. I want to be honest always, and I think you've all realised that we're saying what we believe, the truth through our soul. We don't have any manuscripts or anything. If we want to take them and read them, they write them to us and see you. From 2005, ladies and gentlemen, until 2014, Minister, on your own governments and PASOK governments, it has not fallen "five". EUR 450 million. Do you know what that means? That means screws. That's true. Since 2015 an effort of 3.5 billion has been made. And now, of course, we have reached a point that, as the excellent Chief of HNDGS said, "we do not buy weapons systems, we rebuild the weapon systems." Isn't that right, Minister? Because we are now calling for the damage we have done to ourselves - and it is not the Greek people, who are giving out of their suffering, from their sweats, who could use them elsewhere, but they are happy to say 'yes' to the Armed Forces', which is why the Armed Forces are first in their priorities and in their love and trust - and what we have destroyed to do with it. Is it not possible since 2012 not to pour "people" for a super-arm that we had, the difference that the Mirages made and now say "what happened, guys, all of a sudden?"! Oh, of course. It's expensive sports for those who think they can go through with some crumbs taken by our soldiers and sit from morning to night and work from night till morning to morning keep Thermopylae. Everything's collapsed. We broke up with our defence industries. Why? What's the point? Compensatory Benefits. Do you think the European Union, Mr Minister, abolished them for fun? Oh, no. The Compensatory Benefits in some minds were how we put the spoon in and fill our pockets. These were the Compensatory Benefits. Of course you agree. That's why they've been abolished. We have therefore destroyed our defence industry, an industry which in the 1980s and 1990s - which I visited very often because I was flying there, we took the tests out of there for helicopters and aircraft - was running out of life. We had the Greek Air Industry, the aerospace industry. There were children educated, with their brains, who were gone. Where did they go? To go to Italy to see how many aviation industries and companies have our own technicians there. So, what do we do now? We're not producing anything. At least ten thousand Greeks could work. We could produce for our country, be autonomous and have no need, as Erdogan has done since 2001. We could also export. S.A., ELVO, S.A. destroyed. Why? Because some people wanted to buy out and not produce in here. The same is happening everywhere, ladies and gentlemen, and we need to change these things quickly, all right. Let's quickly see why the Greek Solution proposed - and the government's good will brought the weapon system to our homeland - the Miraz F3-R. First of all, Minister, this is the second time that an integrated weapon system is coming into our country. The first was in 1991. We have to be honest. It was when we went to America and signed the G2G contract with Apache the AH-64A. Since 1991, for people to know - so far, we have done nothing but take extra Apache helicopters a murderous war machine which the Turks do not have. These are the differences we make because we are a small country, we have a limited economy to make available for the Armed Forces for armaments. So we need to take weapons'smart'. I said before about ODA and drones. At the moment there is the programme 'TELECOMMASS'. Minister, what about the drone tracking program? So with regard to ODA, we first developed the drones in 1981. This is the second time, then, that we have received an integrated weapon system. And what do I mean? I mean that the follow-up support, the subsequent support, i.e., along with the weapons and ammunition, we take them completely. And this is a practice that we need to apply from now on. No, we're taking submarines and we didn't get torpedoes of heavy type. Doing what the submarines? Can we see them? The best, then, multi-playing fighter in the world is currently the F3-R Raphael, which is not the previous model. It is what exists in the French war industry. If we do not sit down and work seriously, as the Greek Solution does, with a plan, with proposals that will be implemented, we will never get out of our misery. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] How's France? He has ordered twenty-eight Raphael F-4 for 2025 compared to two billion. From now on! There's no war problem with France, there's no threat. We have the threat problem. As far as we are concerned, however, the certification of ammunition and missiles had to be passed. It is, therefore, because time is pushing me - the most perfect killing machine, I repeat. She's on surveillance, she's intercepting, she's bombing, she's hitting strategic targets. It has the great difference, it has the Meteor missiles that the Turks don't have. Minister, we absolutely must, when your French counterpart comes in, see the defensive agreement. If we can do what we did not do with the submarines 214, that is to say, that the Turks of the Meteor will never get, then we will have made the big difference in the unaired umbrella and in the Aegean and Eastern Mediterranean umbrella. When the Rafalis rocket of the Greek will hit the Turkish from 30 km and the Turkish must come to 60 km to hit the Greek when this tracking system, Spectra, when it has the MICA missiles...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u19	There's no need for that much detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u20	...this will make a difference. What I have to close, Mr President - to do, Minister - and we propose - are the following: Firstly, we should see whether the Ziskar D' Estén - Constantine Karamanlis in 1976 can be repeated with France. That is, until these aircraft arrive and are ready to fight, if we can and have an agreement with the French to help us with a fate of aircraft if necessary. Because I'm so afraid it might be necessary. I despise it, but we're very afraid of it. Also, as far as the Greek Defence Industry is concerned, this festival with the Ministry of Finance must be stopped immediately and come to the hands of the Ministry of National Defence. That's the only way, Minister, our defence industry can work. Best client to go there. And you will see that over ten thousand Greeks will work, they will be paid well, they will produce and they will be happy, as we are happy today, our pilots. Go for a walk to Tanagra. They're smiling because we're taking this super gun. The Greek Solution, which suggested the Rafahs, could never...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u21	To be happy too, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u22	...apart from the deal. We say 'yes' in this agreement, although there may be some excesses and minor problems in the conventions. But I mean, if we whisper...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Mylonakis, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u24	...we can find a lot. We, Mr President - and I close with this - say 'yes' in the agreement with the French Government and the Rafahs and all that we have at times proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u25	We're gonna hang up with Mrs. Sophia Sacora from Mera25. Then the Minister will take the floor, as he has informed me. Two political leaders have spoken, Mr Koutsoubas and Mr Velopoulos, who will be given and will begin after the process. Here, Mrs. Sacorafa, you have the floor. I'm not putting your dentistry on, because you'll have tolerance, if necessary, like everyone else had.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will start by saying that no one in this Chamber disagrees with the country's defence aid, especially in today's critical historical phase. The debate is not about whether each of us is in favour or against strengthening the defence, whether in favour or against the choice of specific weapons systems. The main issue is the expected benefit to the country and to the Greek people. I would repeat - and I have told the committee - that patriotism is not haggled or exhausted on the commercial aspects of the political agenda. In the history of our country's armaments, we find that our choices were not based on our objective national needs. Unfortunately, the balances between our famous allies are to a large extent defined. The economy, as well as the security of our country, is being burdened with an unscrupulous armaments policy which is limited to making the circumstances and the so-called allied demands. It seems clear here that there are other criteria and, above all, dependencies. Multiplying on equipment may be an advantage when it is a result of national design and is based on defence criteria. In the Greek example, however, multilingualism has emerged from our country's short-term dependencies and is precisely the opposite: the result of a lack of national planning. That's why it works, after all, as a disadvantage. I assume that Greece will continue to declare itself willing and appropriate to the war industries and governments of their States. Should we not, then, at some point, account be taken of the heterogeneous nature of these transactions? Ultimately, what support did we have from these states that provide us with their weapons extremely expensive? In Turkey's recent aggressive actions, Greek expectations remained without a reflection. The summits go along with each other to add disappointment to those who, rather sillyly, hope for substantial support. I would remind you that at the inner audience you are denouncing Turkey's games with the 'ORUC REIS'. However, at the recent summit in the European Union you accepted the adoption of conclusions. You have also signed it with 'point 30', which says that the European Council points out the withdrawal of 'ORUC REIS'. So what does the Council say and why? And let one explain why the summit should draw conclusions and indeed these conclusions. I want to make a historical parentheses. The European Council in Zappeion in 1983 did not reach common positions. There was then a problem with Great Britain requiring refunds. The President-in-Office then and Andrew Papandreou preferred that there should be no conclusions at all than a text of vagueness. Unfortunately, however, these have now become a rule in the functioning of the European Union. Let me remind you that at the time the economic risk was too great. As regards the Mediterranean Integrated Programmes, history wrote that neither Greece nor Great Britain had any effect on that dead end. For the parameters of the negotiations, we must of course also take account of the range of personalities. Andreas Papandreou then co-existd with Cole, Mitterrand and Thatcher. Comparisons with today's European leaders are rather sad to all of us. We have just seen, in December, that Hungary and Poland even retreated, but that they have succeeded in postponing sanctions to avoid depriving them of access to European funds. And since the reason for European funds is that they continue to enter Turkey and, in fact, they are growing, especially because of their privileged relationship with the European Union and especially with Germany. In these circumstances we will be on a heavy date in Istanbul, where we will face Turkish claims to Greek sovereignty and sovereign rights. I must remind you again that from the transfer to 2018 in Turkey it accounts for 11.8% of German exports, while in Greece only 9.6%. If we take into account the traditional relationship between Germany and Turkey since the 19th century, the size of the neighbour, but also the problems of today's Turkey, the conclusion is undeniable. Our country is Germany's best customer, at least in terms of trade. Let us also see France's exports, with the exception of certain Arab states such as the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Iraq. Greece is classified only under China, India and Taiwan, but also above all the other members of the European Union, above and beyond Spain and Germany, without the calculation of this agreement. In addition, since the transfer of military arms from the United States to Greece until 2019, exports of military arms to Greece are larger than those to Germany, which for many years has been a first-line country to Russia. There are two major problems with regard to Greek armaments diplomacy. The first is dependence on specific systems, which puts serious doubts as to whether the construction countries will ultimately allow us to use them when and where we want to. The second is our full integration into a network of international relations, let us say in terms of alliances, where our obligations are disproportionately greater than the benefits. Really, at what levels of equipment has this practice brought us all these years? What really has the timeless bleeding of the Greek people for equipment? The next day, after every commission, we are back and the need for the next one arises. Ladies and gentlemen, the equipment policy must be based on two criteria: to ensure the country's sovereignty and sovereign rights effectively and on the criterion of the final benefit, which should at least compensate for each corresponding cost, economic, social and political. It seems here that equipment - let me speak - once again reasoning goes for a walk. So let's come to the point. We have heard the Prime Minister point out for this agreement that such a complex and important equipment programme has never been carried out so soon and so efficiently. Is that really a reason for the government to be proud? See below if that responds to the essence of things. We're starting with the process. The whole procedure for this draft law has made Parliament's rules simpler. I said that in committee too. We regret to note that there is an extreme exploitation of the national anesthesia of each of us, and obviously you think that it gives you the right to complete circumvention of parliamentary procedures. The time limits imposed do not allow for a substantial debate. In addition, with the abuse of confidentiality, a large part of the bill came out of parliamentary dialogue, without any possibility of exchange or composition of views. We are not talking here, nor are we going to vote on whether we are in favour or against the support of our country, or whether we like the Rafahs or not. For the weapon systems it is clear that others must and should have the first word. Here we have three specific contracts, contracts that include terms that are contrary to national law for the supplies of defence material from the Armed Forces, such as the Law 3433/2006 in particular. They also include conditions which also run counter to current practice on contracts with corresponding objects. For example, in guarantees, interest-free advances, the consequences of non-compliance with the supplier's agreed and the arbitration. These are contracts with content that are more appropriate to accession agreements. However, such contracts are common in monopolistic or oligopolistic consumer and commercial relations, where one party is completely dominant. Under no circumstances should it be treated as normal for public international supply contracts, and indeed the order and size of this bill. The conclusion here is obvious and undeniable. It is essentially about accession agreements, and this means, unfortunately, to the government, but above all to the country of total absence of any negotiation. I will necessarily come back to the issue of secrets. Obviously, and in no way inconsistent with any acceptable logic, the classification of confidentiality under contractual conditions relating to the guarantee of the sanction for delayed deliveries to correspondence, the termination of the contract, force majeure and justified delays. Depending on the contract for subsequent support, where there is confidentiality in the guarantee for defective reports, as well as late deliveries up to correspondence. The same for weapons systems: it was confidential in guaranteeing, sanctions for delayed deliveries, correspondence, contract termination, and even in discounting the supplier. We seriously and fairly question whether the confidentiality was in all these cases objectively enforced. The confidentiality was extended by the government in an attempt to conceal the absolute absence of negotiation on serious contractual terms, but it is an attempt condemned to failure. I also talked to the committee about specific problematic and far-reaching contract terms. I have distinguished seven aspects of serious contractual concessions, which not only ensure, but directly undermine or reverse Greek rights and interests. I was expecting a government explanation or an excuse for these points, but it never came. Let us briefly look at these problematic points. The contract for the supply of aircraft relates to second-hand and new invoicing. But we agree with the convention that new materials will also include without any other discrimination and secondhand materials. In the first year alone, 60% of the total contractual costs will be paid, and, in fact, EUR 1.5 billion per month for the supplier. This means that supplying companies do not need their own funds available. This is what Greece has. Where else will the French companies find such a galantic customer? Of course, we make the galantos with the money from the actual misery of Greek taxpayers. Our country is also committed to compulsory acceptance even in cases where the conventional material does not offer the agreed deadlines or with the envisaged contractual properties. There is not even a guarantee of good operation from suppliers. The deal is problematic, and the Mirage Armed Forces. The definition of contractual objects is completely unclear in terms of both their type and their quantity. The agreement does not follow the rule that social resources are borne by the supplier, that they will be borne by us and that the sum is not small. It's 6.1% of expenditure. The agreement should explicitly provide for the construction of our country, at least for specific sections, and not only for our own aircraft, but also for other supplies to third parties. There are no plans to involve the domestic industry or then to support it. Similarly heterogeneous for suppliers are the contractual provisions for arbitration. To the extent that we have been able, even with suffocating pressure, to have access to the classified part of the conventions, our original fears have unfortunately been fully confirmed. The contents of these terms are therefore even worsening the whole picture. I am therefore obliged to speak not at all about what has been described as confidential. I shall therefore not go into the substance of the matter. But I cannot fail to express my regret - not to say my anger - about how my country's interests and rights are dealt with. In any case, there are still critical points that remain unclear. I shall mention the reports on problems in the Miraz radar, and there we have no clear answer. Same with the question he raised about returning several Mirages to the construction company. How will we ensure that this fleet is improved and with what timetable? I would also like to make the possible answer here: there is no room for evasion, ladies and gentlemen. The value of the aircraft to be returned is too great. A review of the contract is therefore necessary and taking into account their value at the price to be paid. It must be clear and, in particular, for suppliers, that the sovereign for us is the complete adequacy of the necessary supplies and the absolute safeguarding of operational capabilities at any time of a possible crisis. This is of particular importance, after a large part of the contract is pending for the type and quality of the respective weapon systems. It depends on whether they really offer our Armed Forces the advantage we anticipate. The government must also commit itself here and now and without rotation that the Rhafas will also have the full equipment that we look forward to and is a crucial criterion for their choice, and indeed, in a quantity that justifies the enormous investment of the Greek people. All this should have already been done. Invoking urgency and confidentiality cannot be an excuse for everything. Today, Minister, you are bringing us to a truly heavy dilemma. You are bringing us to vote on these conventions, precisely because their content, as I have said, overthrows our legislation. You are effectively dismantling and effectively canceling the legislative provisions set out in order to protect the interests of the country, precisely for contracts of this kind. Our specific forecasts against these conventions cannot be justified on any acceptable grounds, neither reasonable nor appropriate. I fear, or rather, that you will follow the same approach to other military or armaments supplies in the future. That is a great risk and that is our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. I also told the committee about the government: do not abuse the particular national sensitivity of each of us. Also something else: We are not discussing today another current bill of the Ministry of National Defence or the Minister's individual choices. It is a matter of such order and importance that the Prime Minister, who also has the sovereign responsibility, should be present here today. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that we obviously do not defend any naive, generally peaceful view. International competition is here and does not let us rest, since it is insulting our country's rights and may jeopardise our freedom. However, it is not a national armaments policy, the naughty and inconsistent range of supplies that are not dictated by national planning, but by short-term dependencies. In this sense, subjection to the jewellery of the so-called allies, which also coincides with our main suppliers, cannot be presented as national policy. It will be true that you try to present it as such, taking advantage of the sensitivity of the Greek people. These conventions are, unfortunately, an extreme example to avoid. In any case, therefore, if something does not change until the end of the debate that overthrows things, I have to say that you are obliging us to vote against all the specific reasons I have just mentioned. I must say that, with great regret, ladies and gentlemen, it is the first time that I will vote against defensive expenditure. However, you do not leave us any other margin, nor even to resort to a'representative'. And don't dare misinterpret our attitude as supposedly a refusal to strengthen the country. Our patriotism will not give the government an alibi for such unacceptable practices convicted of failure. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. As I told you, it was for the Minister to speak. With personal consultation with Mr. Velopoulos, who has a stumbling block in order to wait longer, Mr. Velopoulos will speak, the Minister will then, and I am sure, Mr. Koutsoubas will speak after the Minister. So, Minister, you'll be among two party leaders. But you'll take it. It's Raphael. What can we do? Mr. Velopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to make a comment on what is happening in this House. Honestly, I can't understand why we should only be ten people. Who decides? Okay, there's a coroner. I understand that. But I do not understand why it'savings well' should be ten people in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u29	Who decides to answer that question? I agree with the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u30	The "speakers" keep them for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u31	The decision on health measures was unanimous, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Caclamani, hold them for you. I know what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u33	And I know where I am. You're not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u34	We've got the Vice President there. In any case, you will at least allow me to disagree. In the context of democracy, at least in our party there may be different views. To you, in the New Democracy, they never exist. There may be different opinions in us. Let all flowers blossom! Let's go to the rest now, to the most serious. I'll start with some truths, ladies and gentlemen. But true. Since 2005, all parties - and you still in the New Democracy - have not done anything about Greek armaments programmes. Nothing. When I say "nothing", I mean it. And all the Ministers of National Defence today should be at the stand of the defendant and all the governments. Result? I don't want to go into details. I shall say, however, that there is a weakness of means of flight. I stop here, because I don't want to say any more, like the Mirages are also useless. Useless, why? Screws didn't have to take, we didn't have to take tires. In 2009, there is a question by the speaker from the Step of the House, who I was talking about the Mirage tires. In 2009. Here. I've been talking about it ever since. Question to the Minister at that time and he said to me, 'Don't worry, everything goes well.' Minister of the New Democracy. Look for him. And in 2010, too. So we are proud of one thing: we have entered the Greek Parliament to assist whatever government it is doing and to criticise - well-deserved at all times, Minister - because we want to improve it, because we are all making mistakes. The Rafah was our proposal, but in foreign and defence policy, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, there is a two-word difference: armaments diplomacy. This is where the government failed. It really failed. And I'll prove to you soon because you failed and we'll tell you some other truths. You've hacked into S.A. and ELVO. New Democracy, PASOK, has been bankrupt and, as soon as SYRIZA has had its chance, SYRIZA has been bankrupt in recent years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u35	I'm just saying, Mr. Tsipras. If the others have 99% of the responsibility, get 1% on you. I'll talk to you. I'll tell you why. Now, therefore, the Government, as a new Houdini, decided to privatise ELVO and EAB. But, Minister, I would like an answer, because I am an entrepreneur: Is it the privatisation of a company to sell it on pre-orders? I want you to deny that. It is written in many "Declaration Issues" that while selling ELVO, you are preparing to order armoured military cars and vehicles, fifteen thousand already, to the buyer. Can't the Greek state do it? Already? Disprove it here in the Minutes. Does it or does it not? You did the same with a Greek businessman who used to be with ELVO, if you remember, along with PASOK, who just finished the order, shut down the factory. Don't say the names. They're known names of businessmen. In other words, you're directly entrusting a private person. I'm just saying that. Can't HUB and ELVO, our own, our children, produce weapons systems or cars? You have a programme in the NAV of 500 million for the next seven years. But you're sending C130 to maintenance abroad, Mr. Minister, to a company uncertified, while we were maintaining at C130. Why are you sending these aircraft to a private company uncertified to do maintenance? I want answers. They are constantly written daily in the press. And we're going really seriously. All Members in this House are not obliged to know from geopolitical or geostrategic. They have to read, though. And I mean that. You are obliged to read. There is currently a war between Germany and the United States on Nord Stream 2. Yesterday, a whole announcement came out. It's the pipeline connecting Germany to the Baltic, to Russia. We have imposed an embargo on Russia, and we cannot sell our mandarins and oranges and vegetables. The Germans along with the Americans have put us in an embargo. But the Germans are doing business with Russia. "MERCEDES" makes a new factory next to Moscow and we can't send our lettuces from Crete, which Cretans fly to the dumps. There is also a war between Russia - the United States and especially the Democrats. There's a war in the United States and China. We're talking about geopolitical wars. There's a China-India war. There's an Indian-Pakistan war on Kashmir. The planet's boiling, and Greece's away from everywhere. Really, it's absent everywhere. And I'll prove it to you with arguments. We've had the war on the silk road for too long. We have the war in China - the United States - France for Africa. This is where Turkey enters Libya, Somalia. Turkey's coming in. Turkey has bases in Africa. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] This is exactly where the choice you had to make in armaments diplomacy really speaks. Which country has common interests with Greece and not conflicting? France. The only country is France. It is the only right way to make good relations with France, not because Macron loved us, but because France's interests in Africa conflict with Turkey's interests, France's interests in the Eastern Mediterranean conflict with Turkey. So, our potential ally is France and you have fooled her twice. France has been fooled by the New Democracy twice. I read to you exactly what, Minister, the announcement from the French Ministry of National Defence on 12 September 2020: the French Ministry of Defence speaks of operational and strategic cooperation. Here's the document and I'll file it in the Minutes. Minister, did you sign this cooperation? Oh, no. Let me tell you why you didn't sign it. Because Germany has taken your ear because it does not want us to have good relations with France. That is the reality, a reality that you do not tell the Greek people. But the Greeks must know the truth. We shouldn't make fun of him all the time. It's not your fault. The good relations of your party - not personally yours - with Germany are data. As Germany says, this is being implemented by the Prime Minister. It's for granted, we don't talk about that. But we're going to reason. The document is here. Also, there's another document to talk about. There is the document that I had before me, in 1975-76, your Chief of State, the beggar of your party, Constantine Karamanlis, for the Miraz. He ordered that big politician - with his mistakes - Mirage. France didn't have to deliver them to us. It forced France, however, to send us destiny here, to have them here to fight any possible involvement. Why don't you do it today? Are you so incompetent? You're the successors of the New Democracy, the party that did this. Can't you do it? Why don't you do it? Does he need signatures? Sign it up and bring it here. I will also tell you something very simple: France and India make military agreements against Turkey and Pakistan, Minister. Listen, the big problem in the Kashmir region is India and Pakistan. Who knows that? Yes, but Pakistan, Kashmir and India are in an area called the silk road, crossing the Chinese interest there. And I will tell you why there is a role for Greece in the region. The New Democracy leaves us out of the developments again, no relationship. Where's the Indian Minister? Why did he cancel? She was coming here two months ago. Why isn't he coming? You see a country called India, which has a problem with Turkey - they have problems - is a axis for France, again Greece. Find me on what axis we belong to. You'll tell me about the United Arab Emirates. That's fine, we've been telling you a year and a half ago. Now we're telling you about India. After a year and a half, if you're government, because the mind is not in the next generations of Prime Minister, but in the next election, you'll now say we'll be dealing with India. But it was the Indian Foreign Minister coming and he didn't come. And not just that. While there is a good relationship between Pakistan - Turkey - sister countries, Minister - we bring Greece without papers, without control of Pakistanis in our country, which we do not know what role they play, instead of deporting them on the ground. If you were serious government, any Pakistani without papers would have kicked him out. That's it. You'd really have kicked him out. But we are talking about a government, ladies and gentlemen, which has gone and did the airport in Nea Kavala Kilkis - Minister, which has airlock - hot - spot. The track filled with tents and houses. The airport in New Kavala! Also, we're talking about a government that goes to Evros at 3.00 p.m. and puts buses with illegal immigrants on a new hot spot in Evros Prison, who have three hundred Greeks left there and put me on the border - please - with Turkey. You have a logic that I cannot understand. You're making criminal mistakes. Let's go to Belhara. I've lodged a statement here, Minister. Did you sign a declaration of intent for two frigates yes or no? You signed. And why did Adonis come out after a week and turned it backwards and said we'd get an American? You tell me. Minister, the Prime Minister's right hand is Adonis. Man comes out and wants to take coast guard ships. These ships that the Americans give you are coast guard ships, are not ships seriously. They're ships that don't have a sonar, don't have a radar. What are you going to get, rots? I don't mean you, but your government. I speak to the Panagiotopoulos now, because I know that he is a person who is serious and has reason and I appeal to him. Be serious, don't play like that, because you're gonna commit crimes. Coast Guard ships? I won't say about the problems they've had, I'm going over it. It may also be a matter of public relations between companies that are in trouble with each other on board ships, but they are coast guard ships, the United States port. What are we supposed to do with it? But this is how you operate, unfortunately. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm going to need a little more time. You are the government of communication and slavery of SKAI and the rest of the channels. Only for communication. They've been smuggling you all day. SKAI once hijacked and put a SYRIZA. Now even SYRIZA doesn't make SKAY. We have a presence on "SCAI", "STAR", on the other channels very little. That's not what I'm worried about, though. It is not possible, Minister, to make contradictory statements on a daily basis. I'll tell the Prime Minister. Mr Kasapidis, Provincial Chief of State, former member of the New Democracy, has come out, a selective, serious man, I know him personally, a very serious child - he is both the Church and Mount Athos - and he says that with false evidence the EGE, elements of November, is going to close the market in Kosani now. He said, here's the statement, I'll put it in the Minutes. You know, you know, you know, you know what, Information from November, ladies and gentlemen, the EGE uses. This is the successful final government of the Prime Minister and the rest of the ministers, with false evidence. With cases in November, they are politicizing in January. Such a delay has no one. Go ahead with the old thirteen days of difference. You're going two months to make a difference. And there's something else, so I'm telling you that your statements are contradictory. Really if the channels were 70% for you and 30% for the rest of them to tell the truth, you would have fallen already. Mrs Pagonis comes out and says that the committee has never been recommended for hunters and fishermen to stop their sport and hobby and you have done so. Decide who does it. The President of Romania is coming out this morning - the Romanian President, Mr SYRIZA's gentlemen, did not take it seriously - and denounced Greece, denounced the Greek Prime Minister that he was willing for the vaccination certificate to do so. The President of Romania denounces the Greek Prime Minister as willing. These are incredible things! Not even a vaccine dealer in New Democracy. And I'm not saying the Prime Minister, but his advisers. The New Democracy has been accusing us here many times that we, because I am a businessman, are selling products. They sell vaccines, that's worse. It's unbelievable! And that's not all. Romania has broken us into for another reason, Minister. Romania's GDP ten years ago was about 110 billion dollars, and today it's at 240. We've been overtaken by Romania too. We've executed every logic. Now let's go to the rest, which is more serious, geopolitical paradoxes. There is a geopolitical paradox in our country, ladies and gentlemen. I have said so many times, Members are not obliged to know everything, but it is good to read a little more. Greece is a potential regulatory country for Eurasia. Without Greece there is no Eurasia. It's over and out. Let's figure it out. But all the governments have made her hypnotized. We are a cultural superpower - indeed - and a geopolitical superpower, because without our country there is no Suez, there is no road to silk and rail, which will come from there, no motorway. So, Ellas is the door. So this door is tightly closed to any government, because it is taking orders either from Germany or from America. That's the problem. And I said in 2008 - I do not know if Mr Panayotopoulos was here at the time - for the great crime that all governments have done for decades with the lack of rail network in the country. Because rail is a prerequisite for a trading country that wants to become a commercial hub. Without a railroad Greece has been and has been isolated for decades, since the Trikoupi era, and then there is no railroad in Greece. The port of Piraeus was not connected by rail, it was never connected. Do we understand that? There is no port in Africa that is not connected with a railroad. How are you gonna carry the goods? The Germans did that. They didn't want a railroad in Greece. Because from Piraeus to Berlin it is a day. From Suez to Hamburg there were twenty - two days by boat. That's the difference. We could be a business hub, billions of euros to win. He won Rotterdam, won by Antwerp, won by Hamburg, won by this function, and Greece never won. That's why all governments never let there be a railroad. So what happens now? Has the rail and the new plan of the Americans been privatised, ladies and gentlemen? Let me tell you now. It is the most vertical railway from Greece, from Thrace and Macedonia to the rest of Europe. Who's gonna win? The one who sold the company is called the Greek Government, the one who wins will be the private, I don't know if it's the Italian Government, because it's also the Italian government inside. I am saying this in order to understand that Turkey will be constantly hitting Evros from now on. Why? He'll hit Evros, because this area can become the key to the development of the whole country. I have a map here: Thessaloniki, Kavala, Alexandroupolis, Ormeni, Burgas, Varna, the railroad of vertical roads. I'll testify to him in the Minutes later. What does that mean? You win over this route for more than fifteen days of container transport. It's over! That's what the government should do. I've been saying it for years and no one has. They sold out, the story is over, this process is over. But who cares, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Piat. Who cares about the ports of Alexandroupolis, Kavala, Thessaloniki? Piat. Who comes out and says it's our ports? Piat. So you see, the news speaks for itself. I'm telling you concrete proposals. Because time is also pushing, I would like to say some other things. I would like to say something to Minister Stefani, as I have an answer here. Your consultants aren't telling you well. Your advisors expose you, because you're an honest man. I say it with full sympathy. It is also a reply from your Ministry for 'TELEMAHO'. It says, therefore, that "TELEMACH" was considered to be non-operational enough, as despite its advantages - domestic construction and small volume - it is limited exclusively to the detection of helicopters, without providing the possibility of interference. And it refers to the 'drones'. This is the Ministry's answer, not yours, but the Economous. I will tell you this: there is no more 'anti-drone'. They have two machines. One is that and the other is the other. There's no worldwide. Where are you going to find it? On the other hand, if you take "anti-drones", which break the software and affect it, they will fall over the cities. I'm telling you, the basics don't know about the Department and it's your consultants' fault. Tell them to read a little bit more. This document should normally have come to the entire Ministry! Where did you see it worldwide having a drone that throws and detects and influences software? There isn't! One is Russian, the 'Krasuka', which you can't take anyway. You can't take it. It is Russian and it makes 'jiz'. The Germans, our friends, they're shouting. I say all this because the top 'anti-drone' systems separate the tracking radar from the intervention system. That's what they say. So you're wrong. Take care of "TELEMACH" more. I would ask you very much to deal with 'TELEMACH'. It's domestic construction from the U.S.A. We can have domestic industry. We can produce our own, stay our children here, our technicians, our brothers, our hungry relatives, the homeless on the streets they don't have to eat, they don't have a job! The Greek wants a job! Work, produce! That's what we're telling you. We're not telling you anything bad. I would also like to say something about the Greek-Turkey exploratory investigations and close here. I was telling you earlier about contradictory statements. I remember a few days ago that the Prime Minister and Mr. Dendias were coming out and saying - so the press wrote - that we are going to talk exploratory. And they both went out and said, "We don't know anything. There's nothing. These do not apply’, etc. At night, they officially announced that the talks were starting. So something happened between breakfast and dinner, some phone, some pressure. Is that a government? And who announced it to us? Turkey's Foreign Minister has announced to us that we're going to exploratory investigations. Which is a sportsman! What a truce for a government to hear from the Turkish Foreign Minister that we are going to exploratory investigations! But if we don't realize who the Ottoman is, a worthy or an officer algorithm, we have a problem. What does Turkey say? He says, "If I have you, I press you in the head", as they did in Cyprus, and "If I don't have you, I play you in the sea like they do in the Aegean Sea. They say, "If you do, I approach you to make you a friend," as they do with Israel now. This is Turkey, ladies and gentlemen. Turkey is acting like this. But the lot was received to you, Mr Ministers - I address the two ministers we now have - to take the armament weight, finally take the burden of training the Greek army, so that we really have a new army. I wish you'd bring it to the finish because it's for the good of our country, for the good of our Greece. We all love the country in here. They don't have more or less Greeks. But, in fact, it turns out to be if you can do that. Also, we need to be afraid in the next few months. There's a power gap in the United States. If we remember in 1974 on Nixon where the gap was, then the Turks were hit. Be careful, all of us. And, of course, not to take advantage of this strange crisis in the United States, and we do not seem to be ready as a political system, because the Prime Minister does not want us to because he has never invited us to table proposals. I asked for it first, Mr. Tsipras said so, Mrs. Gennimata said so. I am not talking about a Council of Political Heads, so an informal thing without serious discussions. I am talking about a serious argument from all the parties about what we should do, because your German friends, gentlemen of the New Democracy, lead us to dialogue. Your friends, the Germans, the gentlemen of the New Democracy, sell submarines like ours that we paid first, and you never put a non-sale clause in Turks, and France does so. France has not been selling weapons to Turkey for decades. Italy sells, Spain sells, Germany sells, but France does not sell. It's all he's talking about. These are our friends, France. The rest of them aren't. Also, the sanctions that have been ‘bite’, I fear they have taken anti-rabies serum, calmed the dog and no one bites. The sanctions, which Mr Petsas told us, will be 'bite' sanctions. Nothing, nothing, nothing! We'll get to the point where we can talk to the Turks, and here's the big laugh! The New Democracy says "It's not wrong to talk." No, it's bad to talk. It is wrong to discuss without a specific agenda. It's bad to talk to someone when she flies over the Acropolis - I say it out loud - over Karpathos, over Crete. It's bad when the other guy does "ORUC REIS" walks. What can we talk about? I will tell you what 'bilateral contacts' means. I spoke to the diplomats of our party. They say "We are sitting on a table, Mr President, two sides. One side testifies to her claims. It records them on paper and receives them on the other side, Greece. Turkey says "I want this, I want it, I want demilitarisation, I want the 21st mediterranean, I want to take on board". He writes it, he gives it to you, you get it. Our side will give white glue as a bad student, because we do not claim anything." So the saying of "We claim nothing" from 1974 until now leads us to constant retreats on key issues relating to our national sovereignty. So what's gonna happen? If the Turks claim ten and zero, will the Greek say: Apostolidis? God, where did you find this guy? Mr. Apostolid of Ocalan? Mr. Apostolidis was then down in Africa. Laugh, Mr. Panayotopoulos! That's him! He's the Apostolid of Ocalan who delivered him. Did we forget him? That's the Apostolidis, isn't it? It's not a name. The one with the mustache for good! That must be him. But are we in good shape? You're putting the guy who failed then, whoever it works now? And Apostolidis will say after "A, the Turks ask for much. Here, give these up, Prime Minister, we leave." Good! But that's what you've received, which means you've already recognized informally the claims of your enemy. That's why I'm saying you shouldn't have gone to investigate. If you go, I'll leave you a little window. There's a way. Write on a paper that we ask for self-employed Imprus and Tenedus who are entitled to it under the Treaty of Lausanne. The Treaty of Lausanne says so, not me. You must say that we demand compensation for the City and Pontto for the massacres of the Turks, leaving Cyprus of the Turkish settlers - specific things - to make them difficult. There's also a piece of paper on the other hand that Greece claims something. Otherwise, white glue and the other ten claims. The loser will be Greece, even informally, because we will be the bad kids. Germany will say after "But, you have left. It's your fault. You didn't find them." I'm just saying it just so some people can figure it out. So we're gonna lose half the Aegean and go into a collapsation without a single bullet falling. And, unfortunately, you're the Defence Ministers, not the Minister of State or the Prime Minister. In fact - I say this once again - we are mathematically driving one more defeat after the Imia 'grass', after any proposals by the Turks that are refreshingly claiming even after the betrayal agreement of the Ambassadors. It is treason for us, but you never consented to doing an Examination for Mr Kotzias so that we could finally see what happened and raped Kotzias so much. You didn't. Ten of us signed and waited for you to sign. It's over in March. Whatever we do, history has stopped. And, of course, tell the Prime Minister, his advisers, because I honor the Prime Minister - as long as you can honor someone who is lying many times, I have reservations about him - that he can't say "Stop playing the best man". Is this the Greek Prime Minister's statement to reporters? In other words, the Embassy of Germany or France - I say, how will it interpret this 'humbs'? No, the batters! I repeat that it is not a serious proposal for a Prime Minister to talk to journalists about Greek-Turkish. A lot of attention is needed. And worst of all, do we have an interlocutor and an intermediary of who? Rama? To go first to Turkey, to come here and talk to the Prime Minister! Speaker, the drug dealer, the dealer! It's not my saying, it's not my saying. Interpol has written it in a document, i.e. Rama is one of the people he's doing and the drug-trafficking state. So this man, Rama, the drug dealer, who is building property in Himara, who has not yet given Katsifa's file, made him an interlocutor and mediator! Oh, no! Something's wrong, guys! Something's wrong! You're making a mistake! In fact, we are talking about Rama and Albania, which have given the Turks a base in Durres, 'Dures', which have submarines and which can do whatever they want! But it's not possible! I'm telling you, honestly! There are mistakes! If you go to resolve the issue of Greek-Turkish, Greek-Turkish ministers, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are obliged by the Constitution to go to elections. I read Article 41(2) because the Prespes, which was a national issue, were solved without the Greek people speaking. Bad for SYRIZA, as you had to go to elections and then solve it, because you did not say in the election that when you take over power, you will solve the Skopje. You never said that. Now the New Democracy is coming and is going to solve the Greek Turkish. Why untie us? Did you let us know before? Did you tell the Greek people that you would solve the Greek Turkish? Did you warn him? Oh, no! So how do you talk about who you're talking to? I'll tell you. You don't have a people's mandate for that. You have no legitimacy from the Greek people for this. It's a crime you're going to do, because then the next ones will come - it might be the JRC, I don't know, I say, we might be the government that we want four years to change Greece. We ask the Greek people for a four-year plan and plan. Just four years and all Greece will change and make sense and implement policies. And I'm saying you haven't informed anyone. Why don't you run elections? Go to elections and say "We'll solve Greeks like this." But how? You're not telling us. Closed up, I won't tell you about the Ionian or the EOZ. I'm the man who in 2007, in 2009 in here - I don't know how many you're older here, Mr. Raguss was here - I said about the EOZ, about the look and everybody was laughing down. But I'll tell you about the Cythera. Why, you guys, outside Cythera? Kythera and Antikythera have metropolitan, you know. Why? You're of the church, gentlemen, I know. Why? You tell me! Why don't Cythera have twelve nautical miles? Tell me about it! Why don't the Strokes have a normal EOZ? Why do the Overseas Islands have no normal EEZ? Why is Rhodes, Crete dogged? Why all this? We have said it many times, we know it well. We don't tell you what to do, because we don't rule or co-govern. But we're telling you what to do. Because what you do not do or what you do wrong will be paid by the Greek people, and they are crimes. And to prove to you that you are a party that listens more to Germany or to the views of other countries, I will tell you what your MEPs have not voted on. Our side proposed that the Green Wolves be designated as a terrorist organization. The MEPs of the New Democracy have not voted. Also, New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL in the European Parliament voted in favour of increasing the benefits to illegal immigrants and Turkey's financial support. In the European Parliament, the New Democracy! That's what the Greek citizens hear. We tabled amendments as a Greek solution to the European Parliament for the suspension of a customs union. The New Democracy voted in favour of Turkey. He voted against our proposal. We voted in favour of our amendments to stop funding, end accession negotiations with Turkey. The New Democracy and the rest of the parties did not support it. We passed a resolution with other foreign MEPs, colleagues, to prevent the handing over of German submarines to Turkey. You did not vote for it, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Energise Article 78(3) of the Treaty to close borders and to guard them from a European army. New Democracy did not vote for it. We sent a letter to the President of the Council on an arms embargo in Turkey, we, as a Greek Solution. We asked you to sign. New Republic and SYRIZA did not support. I tell you what you did not do in the European Parliament. Because that is where your MEPs vote on the basis of what the European People's Party says, not what the New Democracy of Greece says. That's the problem. What the European People's Party says, not what the national interest says! These are crimes, real crimes. We have proposed too many things. Finally, I'm going to propose a few things to the ministers here to see them. I had spoken to the Prime Minister about the Rafahs. Good for him, he chased it and we lead to a market, with her problems, with her pathogens. We'll find it in front of us, I imagine. I wish there were no problems. I wish everything would go well. I told him about the hundred ‘Blak Hawk’ in South Korea that gives them free of charge. I don't know what he did. I told him about the 'Bell AH-1 SuperCobra' that marines are withdrawing to the United States. This was done in a telephone conversation with the Prime Minister. I told him. I also said about 'Krasukha', the Russian electronic war system, the only one in the world, you knew it, Mr Stefani, which has the two machines in one. There's no more. Hey, get over there and take it. Why don't you take it? I am not telling you to take 'Sukhoi'. The Germans and the Americans won't let you go again. Take this. He shot down Turkish drones "Bayraktar" near Russia's base, too much. In addition, the Netherlands is a minefisher of the ‘Alkmaar’ category. Bulgaria took two ships and cheap, because it delivers them with 3 million euros. It's changing, Mr. Panayotopoulos. I am trying to give them some arguments with proposals to understand that we are not just for the opposition here. The 'TELEMACHOS' system I want from Mr Stefani, because he is a military officer, because he has it, because he has served the country, to see it well. Minister, look at it. It is something that can be produced by Greece and it can also be exported to produce wealth for us to also import foreign exchange. The simplest! I was expecting the Prime Minister, Mr. Georgantas, promised that he would go to Kilkis. Mr. Panayotopoulos, did you go to Kilkis, to the drone factory? You should go, my Minister. There's a Greek company that manufactures drones, Stealth in Kilkis. If you don't know, we should go together.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u36	I know her.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u37	Bravo! I know. But go to the factory. I told the Prime Minister to go and he said he was going. It's been two and a half months. We also need to plan seriously, ladies and gentlemen, to close something very simple here, Mr Ministers. All parties to think together. The future from 2030 onwards, Mr. Voutsi, is one: underwater robots without a crew. As you hear! Like drones, submarine robots. The Iranians have one. The Iranians do. They enter within ten or eight people in a small, mini submarine which is unseen, stealth, enters into bays, enters anywhere and can because we have island complexes and small rock islands and small islands to put where we want and do the greatest damage to the Turks. There are these. They're semi-autonomous robotic submarines and boats. We can do it. There are engineers. Our experts at least in the Greek Solution tell us that there is the possibility at a very cheap cost, not EUR 2 billion, Minister, but with EUR 100 million having ten, twenty such a thing. They're small. These, however, give you advantages, as Mr Mylonakis said earlier. They are small weapons systems that give you an advantage over Turkey's big ones. We're not getting a plane. We've got airships on our islands. I say this because the Greek political system, all of us, and I, in particular, need to make proposals. And I appeal to the Greek Prime Minister: don't sign anything. Mr Apostolidis will not accept any papers from Turkey. The Turks have a purpose to take us into a co-existence with either war, warm episode, or without. But it is valiant, as in its ancient Greek expression, the word "towards luck", "previous", without falling a single tuffey to lose Greek national sovereignty, lose Greek national territory and then cry, like in the Imbian Greek Marines, the Greek soldiers, Mr Stefanis who at the time was in the army, crying all the army, because without doing the slightest thing we have lost. We had three dead, but we lost national sovereignty. No, don't hand over that to the next generations. Our minds in the next generation and not in the next elections, gentlemen of the New Democracy and Prime Minister! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u38	Mr Nikolaos Panayiotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. To the President-in-Office of the Council of Greece, I have to give some answers to the extent permitted, because if I respond to all this storm of issues that have arisen, I will need a lot of time. The first thing I have to say is that he is in a hurry to prescribe developments, he may write a mortgage on a future pint of something that will evolve on it, "I said it and did it" etc. But don't rush that fast. As far as the issues of our own competence are concerned, for the Ministry of National Defence, that is to say, I must give an answer to him that, as far as Mirage is concerned, it is not useless, because, thanks to our own intervention, we have resolved this problem, thanks to our legislative intervention which now allows the uninterrupted flow of spare parts in version 2.000-5. As regards ELVO, which was known after a competitive procedure which was ‘run’ by the Ministry of Finance, sold to an Israeli company, it was not sold by any dowry. It was sold, but without a dowry, i.e. a preconceived decision on the future construction of a vehicle. There's nothing like that. As far as freshness is concerned, the game, as I have said from the Step, is open, the game in the sense of the final decision by the Government to add four new wells. If the Prime Minister or the Government were so dependent on German interests, we would simply have chosen the German proposal for this well, which is among the proposals put forward, the many interested, to build this new ship. There are many interesting proposals. We are looking at them very carefully. The decision will not be indicated by SKAI - because I have heard that too! - but the Navy, in the interests of the national defense and operational capacity described by the Hellenic Navy by the Staff, which is currently considering the proposal. As far as the opening to India is concerned, I think that the Greek Republic's strategic aim has already been announced by the relevant Minister, I should like to say that he attends the meeting of the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment and Investment, who had visited India a few months ago in the context of a large defence material report. There he contacted high-level officials from the Indian government, the Indian Ministry of Defence. I, like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, have seen the Indian Ambassador, and this initiative is under way. It simply does not evolve or rather does not produce any specific result from one day to another. It takes time, like all the country's multidimensional diplomatic effort. So let's do some patience. However, I must say that I am pleased that the very rapid rules we have given the race - not at the armaments race, but at the great effort to defensive the country - attract other parliamentary groups, who come with constructive criticism, with proposals, with a positive attitude to vote for bills or sub-programmes dealt with by the Arms Directorate, with legislative initiatives in the form of an amendment, i.e. they say, positive to the national interest and to the particular proliferation of defence issues. I must say that this is a pleasant development. But today, and within four months of the start of the preliminary negotiations, ladies and gentlemen, of course - negotiations between the French and Greek side - the Greek Parliament is voting for the bill on the supply of ultramodern fighting aircraft Rafah, which includes their support and the supply of their weapons either in the form of direct addition of new weapons or in the form of upgrading and recertification of existing weapons in the air force arsenal that will then be able to carry the Rafahs. With this flagship project, the first, in essence, major armaments programme for many years, is a catalyst for the total deterrent power of the Armed Forces of the country, because the deterrent power of the Armed Forces is no other than the power of their weapons, as is the quality of their inspiring capacity, i.e. the strains of the Armed Forces. And the effort to increase the overall combat capacity and deterrent capacity of the Armed Forces is an enduring and intensive effort. It is a national case literally, which becomes imperative because of the present geopolitical situation, with many and complex challenges and security threats in our wider region, but also because of the policy, the overall, rather, attitude of the neighbour, which directly challenges our sovereign rights and threatens peace and stability in the Eastern Mediterranean. Now, it seems, of course, willing to come to the debate, but just a few months ago, it had caused the universal, unprecedented mobilisation of the entire Armed Forces of the country to a regime and a period of escalation. In the context of this effort, in the light of the Prime Minister's announcements from the Step of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, in September 2020, in the light of the operational requirements of the current but also of the established structure of forces and in accordance with the overall organised, costly and costly plan of strengthening and upgrading the Armed Forces, by means of course and with personnel, prepared by the political and military leadership of the Ministry of National Defence and approved by the Prime Minister, we decided the procurement on behalf of the Air Force of the state-of-the-art Rafah Air Forces in the F3-R version that is a newer version of this aircraft. It has been in the production phase since the beginning of 2020, and that is what matters because, as you can see, it is only that the used aircraft that we source is in fact new aircraft. This is therefore an aircraft whose special features and the strength of its weapons form in favour of the Air Force clear conditions of leadership both in the field, the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean, and in the overall balance of air and combat power between Greece and Turkey. In the debates prior to Parliament's meeting of 17 December 2020, where there was a first but very substantial and in-depth I would like to believe that, up to last day's meeting of the Committee on Foreign and Defence Policy, I would say very intensive, covering a very wide range of issues in the technical and other aspects of the conventions that are the current bill, all the technical features of this platform and its weapons have been fully explained. It is not here to say more details, but time is not enough. So we proceeded with this supply at high and unusual speed, I would say. We had to respond to the need, and I think we did it the best. The negotiations were intensive, complicated and quite difficult. However, they were actually completed within three months, and this was thanks to the hard work of all the representatives of the Ministry of Defence and Investment, i.e. the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Defence and Investment, which played a leading role in the negotiations with the Working Party headed by the Director-General, the Economic Service of the Directorate-General of the Directorate-General for Defence, who adapted this supply to budgetary reality and made it possible both to disburse, to secure the amount of money and to integrate it into the increased budget for defence expenditure in 2021. Of course, thanks to the very good, very constructive attitude of the French side, both at the level of political leaders, President McCronn's direct excellent relationship with the Greek Prime Minister, the constructive and truly excellent relationship between me and my French counterpart, but also at the level of service actors, especially at the level of the two Hellenic and French Air Forces. Cooperation has been excellent and has therefore yielded positive results at such a short time on complex and complex issues. Because this is a contract which is, in fact, three conventions: acquisition, addition of aircraft, completion of their subsequent support and acquisition of arms. And given that some of these aircraft were also used where, as you can see, many and difficult issues arise in selecting the best used or, in any case, in used aircraft in a very good condition, which has been secured by the French side, proposing solutions that have finally been fully accepted by the Air Force, we have brought this result. And we had to combine speed, flexibility, efficiency, but also transparency. We have chosen the negotiated procedure without publication of a tender notice, a legitimate procedure of course, due to urgent need due to a crisis. And today we are bringing this draft law before Parliament, which is the special regulatory framework governing this provision. Immediately after the adoption of the draft law, this will be promoted by the Court of Auditors for pre-contractual audits, so as to ensure under the judgement of a judicial authority, so that an independent authority, the presumption of legality and transparency, is established. To this end, following negotiations with the French construction companies on terms of cooperation, three draft contracts have been drawn up, which we are now discussing. The first draft contract relates to the contract between the Ministry of National Defence and the manufacturer of the ‘DAUSSALT’ company, for the supply of six new and twelve used Rafah aircraft after their associated equipment and for the provision of services for their initial support. The second draft contract concerns the subsequent support of Rafah aircraft and is concluded between the Ministry of National Defence and the three manufacturers of ‘DAUSSALT’, ‘THALES’ and ‘SAFRAN’. You will not at least see in this Chamber as long as we are political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence, an instrument contract, particularly voluntarily, without at the same time a contract of its subsequent support as was done in the past. The third draft contract concerns the supply of equipment, i.e. weapons for Raphael aircraft, as well as the maintenance and modification of existing weapons of Miraz 2000-5 aircraft, in order to use these weapons by Rafah aircraft. In the course of the negotiations it was found that company requirements exist on individual issues, the coverage of which requires the adoption of a specific regulatory framework, as there were differences in these matters from the existing legislation governing the performance of procurement contracts in the field of defence. Derogations have been made and these issues have been addressed, of course, with more specific arrangements concerning the guarantee letters to be presented in the procedure for the receipt of contractual items, the consequences of late delivery of a contractual item and, in particular, the fines, the liability to third parties, the conditions for payment and the conditions for arbitrary settlement of contractual disputes. There are seven points which have all been dealt with by negotiation. Some of the conditions on the other side were accepted by us, some of our terms were accepted on the other side, some conditions were rejected, some conditions were accepted in full. That is the point of the negotiation. In view of the protection of the public interest and the desire to move quickly, but without giving back, from the clear lines that we have set from the outset, we have accepted the least possible divergences from existing legislation or, more importantly, from the introduction of specific regulations which are mainly technical in nature and concern the performance of contracts. It goes without saying that these conditions which have been laid down in this draft law do not derogate from the provisions of Union law. The companies with which the contracts are to be concluded have the common feature, as you know, of being unique manufacturers of the systems whose construction or support will be undertaken. It is therefore clear that there was no possibility of concluding any contract with other companies at least at the stage of the original procurement. As far as the involvement of the domestic defence industry is concerned, I should like to say this in this way - good feasibility that we all want to have in practice, I think there is the possibility of both the letter of the law and the provisions in the special articles of the conventions to emerge in the future, but not at this initial stage of the procurement, since it is done with a single manufacturer, as I have told you. Without these specific forecasts today, cooperation on supply would not have been successful and then support for Rafah fighter aircraft, with everything that would have happened. With regard to the legislative adoption of the conventions before they were signed, I should like to clarify: given the incompatibility and differentiation of certain contractual terms with the existing legal framework, it would not be possible to sign and ratify these draft conventions, in order to assert their conditions. It makes sense, as existing legislation would not allow the conclusion of contracts to be concluded and therefore their implementation, taking particular account of the fact that the implementation of contracts is taking immediate effect. Furthermore, it is clear that the Court of Auditors would not grant approval to sign such projects during the pre-contractual review of them. At the same time, however, we must accept that the pre-contractual audit by the Court of Auditors actually provides, under the conditions laid down, with all the guarantees of transparency and legality for these contracts. The strengthening of these contractual conditions that deviate from existing legislation can therefore only be permitted by legislation, the present, through which the National Representation will approve the draft contracts and authorize the competent bodies to conclude them. It is noted that this has been done on several occasions in the past. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] A bit of your tolerance, Mr President. In two, three minutes, I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u40	Alas, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u41	I think that even now, at the last stage, there is some explanation to this House in order to proceed with the process. As we have said in the committee debate, for reasons of guaranteeing the service secretions of contracts, but which were all available and accessible by the representatives of the parties for several days, so that they can be informed - not to omit this - the original texts of the approved draft contracts are kept in the GDR, the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment and Investment. These texts include a large number of confidential information relating to the organisation, structure, supply and, obviously, the equipment of the Armed Forces, the publication of which would damage the country's defence and security. In addition, information is included in the form of technical details, design specifications and others, which relate to the industrial confidentiality of the contracting companies, which, as unique manufacturers - and as it is natural and next - requested that they should not be disclosed so that their legitimate interests can be safeguarded. It's a common practice in these cases. We lived it at the end of 2019, when we came to ratify the Framework Agreement for the subsequent support of the Miraz 2000-5 that I mentioned earlier. On all these issues, therefore, we have provided detailed explanations for two days, we have resolved all the questions, we have provided explanations on all the relevant reservations and on the secrets, which, as I said, were accessible and available throughout this period to the representatives of the parties. It turned out to be complicated and complex negotiations under difficult conditions, because in times of pandemic, at least the physical contact of the delegations was not so easy, and it certainly also had some delay if you could say that there was a delay, when within four months of the start of the negotiations such a contract is to be voted on in Parliament. I think we will all agree that this has never happened before, at least in Greek times. I don't know if it's customary or so common to be done on a global level of defence supplies. So we have brought the best result, according to the national interest. Ladies and gentlemen, 2020 has been a very good year, I think, for the matter of rearming the Armed Forces, but especially for the Air Force. As I said, the refuelling of the Miraz 2000-5 with spare parts following the adoption by the Court of Auditors of the implementing contracts on the framework agreement for their subsequent support, which we had brought and voted in December 2019. In practice, the upgrade program of eighty-four F-16 aircraft started in VIPER, the most advanced version of this aircraft in the world today. You, gentlemen of the Officership, or rather the Air Force at the time had decided, but hadn't implemented it. The implementation started with the adoption of the relevant regulation in December 2019 and is now evolving. The decision is not enough, and implementation needs to be initiated. In addition, two sub-programmes were approved by the House's Committee on Military Equipment following support from the Air Force's fleet of transport aircraft, which have been confronted with their fate for many years with considerable ensemble problems. Their maintenance and reintegration are already under way in the next few months at the availability of the Air Force. I'm talking about C-130 and C-27. The creation of an International Training Center for Flights in Kalamata was launched in the framework of the strategic agreement with Israel, so that the needs of our youngsters for training can be fully met, but also to allow training pilots from third countries with an obvious impact on the Greek economy. A lot has happened, ladies and gentlemen. Not all things have been done, but the effort continues in a spirit of excellent cooperation between the political and military leadership of the Ministry of National Defence, with work, with project, with faith in the national imperative of this effort. And now for the Rafahs. In less than one year after the start of the negotiations, the first Greek Rafah will land on the runway of Tanagra, this emblematic historical unit that hosted and continues to host the Miraz Air Force and which now, more than ever, after several difficult years, lives a period of euphoria, anticipation and clear realization of its moral personnel. And from the coming summer and for the next two years, eighteen “superior wind streams” - this is the translation of Rafah into the Greek language - with Greek discreet in the wings and Greek flying air in the control, they will come and fly to the national airspace, in the eastern Mediterranean and will cover even more fully, along with the remaining fleet of fighters of the Air Force, the Aegean Sea with their wings and their weapons. Today, then, we are opening this road here. I call on all the parties to contribute with us to this catalytic move to strengthen the country's defence capacity, voting in favour of this draft law on the supply of Raphael and their weapons. I know that, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, that is what you all want. But you must also confirm that by your vote in favour. And I am very pleased, because as far as the opposition officer is concerned, you are doing so despite your reservations. You keep - I must remind you - the right to check in full that you are due to the good performance of contracts, and I urge you to do so in order to find out exactly how they will develop. It does not mean that by voting positively today you are blocking this right. As far as the amendment tabled by the Change Movement is concerned, I think that the second paragraph should be accepted, at least as regards the evaluation periodically by the Committee on Equipment of the good execution of this Convention. Institutions can also be reflected in the text. As far as the need or the possibility of involving the domestic defence industry is concerned, I think that it is anticipated that, if we look at the text of the Convention, it is up to them to come up in the future, when there will also be issues relating to the maintenance of these aircraft, provided, of course, that the EAW can function in the way we all want, so that it can make this workload out as well on behalf of the Rafahs. Today, however, I will urge you to do something else, not to check the contract for the future, but to vote in favour of this bill so that in terms of patriotic responsibility, political maturity and cross-party understanding we can send through the Greek Parliament's plenary strong signal in all directions that Greece is determined to do what it needs and as it must defend its sovereign rights, face any challenge and threat of security in the wider region and this through even more powerful and even more dissuasive Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Minister. Now there is the floor for the Secretary General of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin my speech on this matter. As we speak on the streets of Athens, the Ministry of Education, teachers, students, their parents, protest and claim. They're right and you know they're right. While you are holding the universities a year ago, the government issued a new bill that could well be entitled: "New barriers to education for our people's children and a intensity of repression at universities". And only the fact that this bill was presented jointly by Kerameos and Chrysochoidis proves its reactionary content. Your perception that the intensity of repression will safeguard academic freedom is at least for laughter. Shouldn't you better get the special guards to find the Golden Earnings they're hiding? We're talking now. The problem is the criminalisation of the collective process, the police at universities. Not to recall that a student card was shown to the ranger those of us who were students in the junta years. It is unfair and reactionary that the university function is constantly under surveillance. It is unfair and reactionary to identify the collectively determined forms of student struggle by students, by workers, by academics, with violations. It is unfair to introduce additional barriers to the studies of young people who are forced to work to help their families. It is unfair and reactionary to announce changes in the way you access the HEIs, putting more obstacles on children and limiting students' choices. You're pretending to be interested in their educational level, but high school has become, you and the previous, psycho-corruption center. The fact that you did not limit the choices for today's high school students clearly shows that you were afraid of reactions. It shows the strength of youth struggles themselves. You know very well that the injustice will not deprive you because there are struggles, there are collective democratic procedures, there is the JRC, the JRC and other fighters in the movement. The people and youth have not said their last word. That's more than Mr. Premier knows. Hey, what's These measures will eventually remain on the paper, they will remain inactive. Remember what we're telling you. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is taking place and the announcement of the resumption of the exploratory talks with Turkey, which we do not hide - we are very concerned about. Not that it's generally bad to talk. Alas. However, the question arises as to what can be done positively from these talks, when they are made after intervention by the Americans, NATO, the European Union? Because those who you call allies are the ones who are now being tolerated or who are making backs to Turkey's aggression and their plans to put all its unacceptable claims on the dialogue table. Because those to whom you have placed the defence of security and sovereign rights are the same to undermine them with their plans for co-existence in the Aegean, for partitioning Cyprus, who, as they all show, are haggled in obvious or secret talks. Ladies and gentlemen, for some time the government has been cultivating a climate of high expectations around the Rafah supply. That's what's happening today. We will not only stand by the fact that the government has been able to obtain Rafah, but in one pandemic year it has been unable to obtain more means of transport, doctors, more nurses, school teachers and more, so much that the Greek people need them to protect their health and life. The government deliberately chooses the debate to rotate around the question: 'Does the country need to be especially equipped when Turkish aggression strengthens?' And in this fake dilemma, there are also other parties, SYRIZA, KINAL, of course the extreme right forces in and out of Parliament. In our view, the debate is not equipment or equipment. The debate on us is: What kind of equipment, with what orientation and what needs? This is what we are placing on the equipment, and we are voting against this criterion. Can we talk about armaments if we do not consider how NATO in its new design aims to extend its action throughout the ground, with a view, of course, to its competitors, Russia, China, to the geostrategic interests of the Euro-Atlantic axis, but also to other peoples and countries? Can we talk about armaments by taking off the equation the key factor that says Greece is a member of NATO, like Turkey, and the fact that NATO is interested in equiping its Southeast wing like a lobster? We can discuss equipment when our country's ruling class is aimed solely at upgrading its geostrategic capacity, i.e. upgrading its interests in the region and the Balkans and the Southeast Mediterranean and North Africa, etc.Huh? It is something that has nothing to do with an upgrade of the Greek people's real interests, but it is also in direct contrast with them. Geopolitical developments in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Middle East and the Gulf are rapid. They are developments that have a catalyst in the development of tough competition between the United States, the European Union, China and Russia, as well as between various regional forces, such as Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Iran. The thermometer in the Persian region seems to be rising dangerously. The upgraded military presence of the United States with a recent decision of their government in the Arab Peninsula has the barrels mainly directed towards Iran. The agreements, too, restore states in the wider Middle East region that cooperate with NATO and enhance their visibility in the region, but also the signing of an agreement to normalise Sudan-Israeli relations, complete this puzzle of dangerous geopolitical developments in the wider region. The key to better understanding these developments lies in China's plans, which are now directly threatening the United States' prestige in the imperialist pyramid, such as, of course, Russia's enhanced role in the wider Middle East. In these dangerous US - natonic inspiration and implementation plans, the ruling class of our country seeks its most upgraded role, with a "vehicle" of the government's policy. This is the purpose of the development of economic and military relations between the Greek Governments and Israel and the Gulf States. This very dangerous design involves military forces and armed systems of NATO member states. These plans involve the country with the agreement of all the other parties and the governments to date. This involvement is a "speak" that is through a strict commitment of the politics of all the Greek governments to date. That's why we're going from bad to worse. All these are today who are struggling to remove this whole framework from the debate on the new armament programme, which will, however, be paid unreasonably by the Greek people. Experience shows that these equipment is primarily linked to the needs of naval designs rather than to the defence of our borders and our sovereign rights. So these critical elements we put them to the Greek people to have the whole picture to judge and draw their conclusions. Let's see a little what logic says, but experience itself too. What exactly defensive armour of Greece is at stake in Saudi Arabia, where Patriot arrays are being sent along with the Armed Forces? What are the Navy units doing on patrol in the Persian Gulf? What balance are they going to compensate for in the region, if not for the reinforcement of American-Nathian forces, who are there with the finger in the trigger? What interests do the conversion of strategic military facilities and infrastructures of Greece serve in the war brigades of the US-Natural and the availability of all camps for their needs, as foreseen by the Greek American military agreement? In fact, we are learning that there is also a further multiannual renewal of the agreement and the granting of additional bases to the United States. What makes available 2% of GDP every year to the security of our people, namely 4 billion a year, for NATO? The Greek people "bleed" to undo an alliance that does not see a border in the Aegean Sea, does not see unacceptable views of Turkey, ultimately fueling its aggression. In fact, NATO a few days ago entrusted Turkey with the leadership of its rapid reaction force in 2021. She commissioned her command of six and a half thousand specially trained naval soldiers. What work do civilian personnel and military officials have on missions outside the border while they are supposed to be here, defending the people's borders and sovereign rights? Do you not know, gentlemen, of the New Democracy, KINAL, SYRIZA, how the equipment, both of Greece and Turkey, are automatically assigned to the great "sakouli" of NATO's power? Indeed, for this huge power NATO is not spending a penny, since the bill is being sent to the people and, in our case, to the Greek people, to the same people who have been smacked of their income, if they are small-sized, professional, to the working people, namely, who live with EUR 534 of the allowance, to a people who live with the unemployment benefit, to a people who have a job today, but who do not know what is dawning on him tomorrow. Who really has responsibility for the Greek Defence Industry, which is constantly deceived? Who is responsible for the fact that the country's shipyard and critical infrastructure are now linked to terms of life and death with the plans of the United States of America and NATO? What does the Greek people have to do to pay for hours of flights by Greek fighter aircraft, which even have a finite limit, above the Balkan countries to patrol NATO's "bravo" role? In fact, these patrols, such as in the North Macedonian airspace, are presented by SYRIZA as a profit - it says - from the Prespecies Agreement, because - it says - we took the work of the Naval ranger instead of Turkey, an agreement that gave us the pleasure of making it to the United States of America, in order to tie another country into NATO bonds, because its people have waited for it, its people were fighting and wanting it, just as the Greek people and the Turkish people and other people wanted. That is what the "lifters" of all the parties in this House say. Do you want to say more, do you want to go back? What hand, really, took S -300 from Cyprus, for which they had been bought in the 1990s, and finally placed them in Crete? The New Democracy Government is involved in the Armed Forces in missions that absolutely have nothing to do with the country's defence. This is exactly what the Greek Government wants to hide from the people at all costs. This is exactly the framework within which the freshly-built Rafah will be integrated. This overall involvement, of course, that we have exposed above is not just a patent in the New Democracy. We don't blame you on that. The truth is that SYRIZA was distinguished both within and outside the borders to upgrade military and political relations with the United States, especially with the Trump Government. Let us look at an example. In 2017, Mr. Tsipras had returned, along with the horrors and out-of-place and time Americans about "Dammal Good Trump" and the "private" upgrade of F-16. Indeed, then all other parties, other than the JRC, agreed to upgrade F-16. What did the SYRIZA government say then? That the upgrade ensures air superiority in the Aegean. That is exactly what the New Democracy Government says about the Rafael. What then did the United States Defence Ministry and the Trump Government say? That aircraft upgrades will enhance the ability of Greek air force to support NATO and remain interoperable with the US and NATO alliance. What then did the government and the other parties say about the JRC's attitude to vote against the F-16 upgrading? Same thing they're saying now. Of course, the extreme reactionary voices were not missing. After all, a section of them was then expressed with SYRIZA’s co-chairmen, the ANELs, with unacceptable anti-KKE claims, as they are, of course, not missing today. Before we heard such a party representative. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the JRC's position is consistently friendly and beneficial to the Greek people. The position of the JRC is only stable against warships, dangerous designs of the ruling class and NATO. Developments in the region, by upgrading the economic and military planning of NATO, the United States, the European Union, with the competition of the various urban classes in the wider region, have irreparably exposed the other parties and, obviously, the government. If some people have to explain to our people, these are New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAL, who have for years banned these 'harmful' alliances in supposedly security factors, while they are factors of constant instability, constant insecurity. How do they justify the fact that in today's case when we are discussing a maritime ally, France, it is equipped with another maritime ally in Greece to deal with is supposedly a third naval ally, Turkey? From where and until now they're prosecuting France? On what basis are they telling the Greek people that, for example, tomorrow, the French Government, whatever French government, will not change relations with the Turkish or any other government? In fact, they are so presumptuous, some of the government's claims, which are exposed to each step. Of course, then the blame falls into reality. Of course, we are also talking about the attitude of France and others in the recent summit, which had to do with the European Union's attitude to Turkey. No surprise was caused to us. The European Union is counting on its turbulence and strategic relations with Turkey. Who, in fact, guarantees that even if the air "over hand" is conquered in the Aegean Sea, will not overturn this balance from another weapon system that the Turkish Government can obtain? NATO's equipment means further involvement in an environment of more and more acute competition. All of this serves to pursue various groups - and the country - to play a key role - in exploiting the wealth of the wider region, in the dangerous plans for the peoples, which lead to war, in changing borders, in fragmentation, in attachments, of course, and the refugee - immigration. These needs define the content of the equipment and their limits. It must be very naive to find that NATO has a decisive reason for the use and orientation of each member country's armed systems. The armaments race runs and guarantees only American naval plans. It guarantees profits from war industries, which, of course, are paid for by the people even with their blood. The JRC's position to vote against the new armament programme - mammoth, is in line with the needs of the Greek people, including its needs for the armaments of borders, sovereign rights, peace, security, friendship and cooperation with all the peoples of the region and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u44	Thank you to the President of the KIC Parliamentary Group and Secretary General of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr Athanasios Davakis has the floor by teleconferencing. Here, Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the rapporteur for the Staff Regulations and I would like to say a few words about what he has said. Mr. Tsipras raised the question, because the urgent form of the bill, because we brought it so quickly. The answer is simple and has already been given in the explanatory note to the meeting of the Committee on Informatics on 17 December, of which he is a member. I would therefore refer him to page 2 of this prospectus, in the last subparagraph of paragraph 7, where he will clearly read that, in order to comply with the short schedules, according to the GFCM's operational requirement, the contract in question should have already been signed. On the issue of aircraft delivery, which, according to Mr Tsipras, falls within the good will of the other side, the French, and since he referred to the events of the previous government, I would like to remind him: Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are paying the unexplainable attitude of the SYRIZA government partner, a year and a half ago, to the question of the receipt of the NH-90. In other words, articles such as 12.4 and 12.5 of the first contract reflect the risk that the supplier considers to have the effect of Mr Kammens' earlier refusal, despite official service recommendations, to prevent him from receiving the NH-90s. I believe that defensive planning is an exercise of synthesis and balance between the needs of the international security environment, developments in the area of military technology and our economic and budgetary reality. Based on these three parameters, the National Defence Roadmap, which both the Prime Minister and the Minister presented last September in Thessaloniki, is a balanced and carefully studied mix of interventions and investment, with the aim of digital transformation of our defence system, coupled with the creation and maintenance of long-term strategic advantages to, as we all know, by an East-West threat. So the armaments conventions that we are discussing today are a part of a long-term new doctrine for national defence. Their starting point is the provision in the structure of forces for the acquisition of forty new fighter aircraft for our Air Force, a armament programme that intends to keep the air industry's fighting power high for many, many years. After the thorough briefing we received yesterday at noon at the Ministry of Defence from the political and military leadership, on the technical features, costs and delivery timetables, I think it has become quite clear to all the wards of the National Representation that Rafah militants will be a strong, rapid and long-term injection of power for our Armed Forces in the field of our air sovereignty and not only. In particular, these aircraft offer significant comparative advantages in a number of operational areas, such as short saturation aerials, aerial battles beyond the visual horizon, naval impact and long-distance bombardment. At the same time, they will increase the level of interoperability and networking of our Armed Forces, promoting their digital transformation. Apart from their great technical and operational advantages, however, the supply of these aircraft will, I believe, make the greatest contribution to further deepening the good, excellent - I would say - strategic and also defence relations that we have with France, the most powerful military force of the European Union, which is actively contributing - we see it every day - to the recovery of Turkish reformism on many fronts. The extremely short delivery schedules of aircraft, as Mr Panayotopoulos said yesterday at noon, and the Minister, Nikos Panayotopoulos, is an essential achievement of the negotiation with the French side, a achievement that is covered by the critical operational requirement for new aircraft to be integrated as quickly as possible into the arsenal of our Air Force. Finally, it is noteworthy, I believe, and the fact that for the first time an integrated supply of military equipment is made, which includes at the same time the purchase of a weapon platform with its entire armour and its services, the famous ‘follow support’. Ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption of the conventions we are discussing today, we will achieve two important and interrelated objectives. Firstly, we will rapidly and decisively strengthen the deterrent power of our Armed Forces. Secondly, we will forge even stronger relations with an important strategic partner. As I said during the committee, it is therefore obvious that I will support this draft law, as the New Democracy Parliamentary Group will support it, but also other parties, as is apparent from the process under way. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is, I believe, an important message of national unity and unity to each side. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u46	And we thank Mr Davaki. And now we will have the floor for the Vice-President of the Parliament and for SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Dimitrios Vitsas. Here you go, Mr. Vitsa. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u47	There's no doubt that the Rafahs are an excellent fighter, operating as a platform for the armaments we get, it's an excellent flying weapon system, among the six best in the world. I would say that only the F35 can be and I do not know if there is any 'Sukhoi' that is better, so let's not talk about that. Secondly, it is clear that it is an advantage of a military air force if it integrates a number of these fighters into its fleet. To the extent that it can do so - that is to say, economic - to the extent that there is no need for State expenditure in favour of the social state - health, education, wages and goes on to say - and to the extent that it is part of a project. Because any weapon system and take with the difficulties currently in existence for a threat, the issue is the designs, both at armaments level and at the level, of a defensive and dissuasive force structure. I'm sure this... (It was not heard because of a bad connection) it would be with some kind of contract. There's no other way. These conventions, of course, are being discussed today. I mean, it's always good to have good relations with a very big force like France. International relations are, of course, dependent on joint action in favour of peace, the interests of international law and the interests of the two countries, but these things have also been marketed. So this is what we are talking about today. These four have also defined our positive attitude despite the fact, as I said yesterday, that there are many doubts and many issues to be resolved. It is good, but we must also find the way - what the Minister said - to monitor the implementation of these conventions. I would like to stress one difference: how challenging the rapporteur of the New Democracy was in his opening speech. No, we believe that this attitude is fully compatible with our position in the budget of the country in which we have said that we have no confidence in the government, we will monitor one - one move - and in particular to the extent that it was not in our own programme and, accordingly, we will do so and we will not succumb reasonably - to defence, I mean - no matter what this government brings, otherwise anyone who does not vote against it, will be against the country's defence. These views bring us to mind black years of lack of democracy and must be fought and condemned on all sides of this House. At the same time, I tell Mr. Lazarides that he lives in a country... (It was not heard because of a poor connection) which, on defence armaments issues, we have an unfortunate story with scandalous conventions, with ministers going to jail. He forgets that in the last programme of the Government of New Democracy it was Constantine Karamanlis with Minister Spiliotopoulos, and I do not remember whether you were, Mr Davakis, the last time we had a programme of armaments before the F16 upgrade programme over the government of SYRIZA. But even for Kalamata, to close this chapter,... (It was not heard because of a bad connection) 1,800,000 of the Canadian company, which was rejected after abomination, and we should not even accept its new proposal, which is why we did not accept Vangelis Apostolakis' Minister, with 500 million - take note of the 1,800,000 becomes 500,000, 000 - for ten years. That's what's screwing up that he's forgetting it. I would now like to make two comments in the time I have left. The Minister shall be invited for the short time that this commission has been completed. Don't do it. This is the first time that the market was announced and the negotiations began after the announcement. Mr Mitsotakis announced it in Thessaloniki and then the negotiations began. So you were in a limited context that strengthens the negotiating capacity of the other side. That's the one. Secondly, we are having a debate by means of a parliamentary law procedure. Why? Because the procurement law we currently have in Greece cannot cover such investments. And I do not say it to say, 'Let us apply the law there', I say it to see when we will finally understand - and I say it several years ago, we prepared the new draft law to the Ministry of the Interior - for this law to be non-functional, and every time we come to pass laws by way of derogation from the existing legislation. At the same time, I know that contracts with French companies are difficult. It's in this sense scandalous... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection.) I am not saying that you hide anything, I say with this logic of the scandal. They did the same for the Miraz 2000, they did the same for the 'Miraz 2005' and for the 'NN-90'. I'm not asking for a stop to the process to be re-examined, alas! I would ask, however, for our own interest now to think and make new negotiations, so that problems can be resolved. For example, to ensure delivery times, to check fully what the Air Force receives before receiving them and to strengthen cooperation with the defence industries, public and private. This means that from today we will have to think about what we are going to respond to the 'Follow on Support' which we will be signing after four years. So, in this way, we should go ahead and that means strengthening the ODA... (Not heard because of a poor connection) of its impediment by governmental and other executives who undermine the They are all aware of what is going on in the ODA, and that is why I challenged you to have two discussions on the respective committees, one on how the equipment programmes and one on the Defence Committee more specifically. Finally, Minister, I would like you to reply to me from now on: will the agreement with Israel, through which we give Israeli companies the training of the fighters of the Air Force with the creation of the international centre in Kalamata, to be given to the Israeli company? Yes or no? If the answer is "yes", how will you come or consider that this process has... (It has not been heard because of poor connection) and economical, but much more operational and functional, because we are entrusting through transnational agreement to a private company to do what we have so far done on our own, that is, training our flying people. And instead of going to buy some tuners and some jets, as the Air Force study does, and repair the existing things that can be repaired - I'm not saying they'll repair them all - we're doing this assignment to a private company. Please answer me. It is not at this moment that the debate is taking place, but I would like to say to the Chief of HNDGS and to the Chief of Aviation that I really hope that the eighteen fighters, the eighteen new defence tools, will be well placed, and that we all wish that we do not have to make use of their potential, but that our international relations and our relations with Turkey be governed by the logic, international law. But you will tell me - and you will be right - that for this to happen, it takes at least two. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, too, Mr. Vitsa. The President of the Greek Parliament will now be given the floor by Mr Konstantinos Tsoulas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u49	"Honourable Prime Minister, I am extremely concerned by the information I learned from Ambassador Hare that the Turkish government plans to invade the military and take over part of Cyprus. My impression is that you believe, Prime Minister, that such an invasion by Turkey is permitted under the 1960 Guarantee Agreement. I must stress that the solution, which is literally excluded from this Guarantee Agreement, is the solution you are preparing to resort to. I must also consider, Prime Minister, your obligations vis-à-vis NATO. As Minister of Foreign Affairs Rask said at the recent meeting of NATO Council of Ministers in The Hague, a war between Greece and Turkey must be regarded as literally inconceivable. Finally, Prime Minister, I draw your attention to the bilateral agreement between the United States and Turkey in the field of military aid. According to Article 4 of the Agreement with Turkey of July 1947, your Government is obliged to request the consent of the United States to use military aid for purposes other than those that your assistance has been granted and the invasion of Cyprus is something different from what your US aid has been granted for. Therefore, don’t think about doing this.” I mentioned to you, ladies and gentlemen, excerpts from a historic letter of 5 June 1964 from President Johnson of the United States to the Prime Minister of Turkey, Innon, who saw the light of the publication published after two years by the White House. The Cold War era and the United States' perception that they have a dynamic international role and not an international role through Facebook, Twitter and various other ridiculousness that we have seen in recent years, this concept gave decisive solutions and perpetrated crises before they were born. Of course, later things were different. But at that time, in spring and summer of 1964 the Cyprus issue had reached a boiling point, the events were storming, we reached the point that the Turkish air force bombed in the summer of '64 Cypriot villages and had been sent peacekeeping power for the first time by the UN in March '64. This decisive and unheard of the ears of today's sweet world-leading behavior, sometimes international leaders, shows that the security provided by this harsh attitude - and unrepeatable so far - has not existed for decades. And there is no security for our country of leadership, such as the United States, because obviously things have changed and our country has decided since, having accepted the consequences of Cyprus' tragedy ten years after this incident I mentioned, to defend its own borders on its own against the Turkish threat. The first major move, ladies and gentlemen, which took place in order for our country after the dramatic events of its '74 summer to defend its borders and its sovereignty and to gain a strategic lead over Turkey, was by supplying the first two degrees of Mirage from France in 1975. Those forty warplanes have completely changed the correlation of powers, they have given a strategic lead in our country for so many years. And here I would like to refer to the concept of strategic rehearsal and to point out that this word'strategic', which has today been abused and used even in cooking, in this case, was essential, because every word has its gravity because of and the rareness with which we use it. And because, unfortunately, we abuse this word to emphasise everything we say, even nonsense, there was a risk that when I said "strategic lead" I meant something completely insignificant. No, I mean it by the literal meaning of the word. Since then, ladies and gentlemen, much has happened. What did not happen and remained unchanged is the threat from the East. Secondly, I would like to point out that there is a verb of the law that our country has over Turkey. Obviously, our country is right with regard to Turkish claims and obviously the best way to claim this law - and we see that something is going to happen - is the application of international law, in the end even by the Court of Justice in The Hague. But we must not be misled about the validity of the law. International law or the law that a country has, in relation to international legislation, is of size, still has no power. There is a size of law, there is no legal power in international matters. The ideal development would be the power of law to embrace and support and identify with the size of the law. This has not been done in international matters, and we often confuse these two concepts and ask ourselves, and we are indignant and sad, because the size of the law is not transformed into law. Diplomacy is obviously a key factor in this approach to these two forms of law, these two versions of law, platonic and literal law. But the Armed Forces are also an important factor that can decisively contribute to matching these two versions of the law. Our country in recent years has had the misfortune of the Armed Forces to be involved in two adventures, two gangrens, the Scandal Gangreen and the Scandal Gangreen. These are different things. There are the real scandals in our country, and there are the slanders, which are exacerbating the image of the scandals, swelling it and making it look bigger. The area of national defence suffered both catastrophes and both curses and was flooded by frustration, but horrifying scandals also occurred. So the scale of the problem became inconceivable, it became unbelievable. Because of this situation, it followed a period of dramatic responsibility around the supplies of the Armed Forces, which is successively responsible. Finally, that was what it was all about. This responsibility wronged the Armed Forces, wronged the country's defensive capacity, because it involved the whole range of scandals and scandals a terrible bureaucracy in the name of preventing the scandals, an incredible process of procurement, which is inevitably called by those who know better that it is a non-procurement process after all. This whole grid of misunderstandings and reality, I repeat, has led to a successive weakness of the Armed Forces and the country to acquire what it had to obtain and not only this, but also to acquire the ENACTORY. It was therefore necessary to combat the opacity, scandalology and complaint, which has paralysed every decision that was important for the upgrading of the Armed Forces. At the same time, we had loaded the Armed Forces and with many other tasks, having increased their social role. We did so, I would say, because for every difficulty - from earthquakes and oppression to refugee crisis - the Armed Forces were actually punished for their ability to respond directly to the ravage state that existed in Greece and which we are trying to correct. The Armed Forces, that is, had a greater role to play than they had in the name of their proper social mission, but at the end of every matter that had to be dealt with quickly and with determination was assigned to the Armed Forces, and this fact also created a distraction from their main work. In any case, this is one - in my opinion - a description of a successive maliciousness and exaggeration, which, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, by voting on 15 December and sponsorship for the first time after too many years of EUR 5.5 billion in the Armed Forces budget seems to be ending. It also proves that it was finally decided that the Armed Forces should be dealt with not by praise, not by visits, not by photographs, not by symbolic moves, but by being resolutely treated and helpful. "And in the war, the more than the more cost." So the King of Sparta Architem warned his compatriots in the autumn of 432 B.C.E. for the upcoming military race with the Athenian Empire then. War is not as much a matter of armament as expenditure. So from the moment, Minister, that the state has decided to comply with the enthusiasm, the Armed Forces are entitled to feel much more quiet and much more justified. Expenditure on the Armed Forces is a cost to society, because a country that preserves its sovereignty can deal with its prerogative, can deal with its health, can deal with its education, can deal with its pensions, can deal with all those peaceful works in which every society dreams of making progress. And as a first practical event in this decision to make a decisive contribution to the sacrifice and contribution of the Greek people for the Armed Forces, the decision is to provide these eighteen aircraft, which in a few months' time will again have an unprecedented strategic advantage over the Turkish air force. Because the capabilities of this aircraft, and above all its armaments, are such that it cannot be perceived by the means, knowledge and training of the air carriers in the neighbouring country. And it is also a sign of this real shift towards care for the Armed Forces, of essential and not of symbolic or verbal, that such a large contract is accompanied - and as much as it appears to be self-evident, ladies and gentlemen, in the past - by ensuring maintenance after the market, but also by ensuring equipment, which is important, which can produce significant results mainly deterrent, because that is the main purpose, and indeed other results, if necessary. We therefore have at a time when things are lonely in defending our sovereignty comply with the demands of the times. Minister, it is to the honour of the Ministry of National Defence at this time as well as of the political and military leadership - and you see how this move is finally adopted by the overwhelming majority of the political parties - that this decisive step, which breaks a timeless one - I dare say - ambiguity about the fundamentals, about the deep ones, about the critical problems of the Armed Forces is beginning. And I am sure that this great beginning will be accompanied by similar moves, for the rest of the Armed Forces, but also for the small ones. And, obviously, to remember the previous one as a member of the Armed Forces Committee, there will also be a simplification of procedures for the supply of the Armed Forces, because apart from the Rafahs, we also need the last screw, we need the last bullet, we need the last replacement, because even for these small and insignificant ones, we need to facilitate their acquisition and not only with financial resources that the state gives, but also with the procedures that they must no longer be unthinkably time-consuming. It is an act - an act that strengthens our national sovereignty. It shows the Armed Forces that the state, Parliament in its overwhelming majority, perceives affection and care for them. I think that not only technically or materially, but also from the point of view of the moment there is a justified upgrading in the area of the Armed Forces, which should continue and be extended. We live, in my opinion, only moments. I dare say that we are experiencing historic moments in strengthening the country's defence, so in strengthening the peace and peace potential of the country. And this is done thanks to the rapid and transparent procedures that you have followed and thanks to the vast majority with which the Greek Parliament embraces this initiative. Hot congratulations to everyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much to the President of the Greek Parliament, Mr Tasoula. We continue with our colleague Mr Dionysio Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, I am ahead of you. I have been asking for the floor for two hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u52	Look. You came here to explain - and not just myself - that a Member of Parliament, Mr Hatzidakis, would speak immediately after the President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u53	Two MPs. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u54	Yes, two MPs, Mr. Hatzidakis and Mr. Loverdos, who were notified. I told you that he has asked for the floor then after these two Members, Mr Brutsi, and you immediately thereafter. If you would like, Mr. Brutsis accepts that you will follow Mr. Brutsis's lead. So it's normalized and there's no problem at all. Here, Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after Mr Tasoula's genuine and unequivocal speech, which I call 'historical', because he took us off, I will also try to talk only about the military issue of the agreement, to tell you that there are some moments of happiness in every human life. That is how I feel today, happy to speak to Parliament and vote for this ratification agreement on the purchase of the eighteen aircraft Rafah, extradition - look out! - F3-R. The schedule for the acquisition of aircraft shall be six slightly used in the second half of this year, starting in July, six new ones in the second half in 2022 and six slightly used in the first half of 2023. At the same time, however, the state-of-the-art air-air missiles, i.e. aircraft, Meteor and MICA, will be acquired and the existing SCALP missiles, which are air-to-ground, the Exocet, which are against ships and the MICA-air missiles, will be upgraded. These missiles that I mentioned brought you the Miraz 2000 aircraft so that these missiles can also be used by the Rafahs. To acquire and maintain the aircraft Raphali and their armaments, there are three separate contracts. There is the contract for the purchase of aircraft, the second convention for the four-year support of aircraft - the so-called 'follow on support' - and the Convention for the arms that they will bear and their support for four and a half years. It must be stressed and understood, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, that this is the first time that such an integrated market in war materials of this kind is being implemented, which affects not only military balances in our region but also in the Eastern Mediterranean, because it includes at the same time the purchase of aircraft, their logistic support and modern equipment. By acquiring these weapons, i.e. strategic missiles, the aircraft can now intercept and crush aircraft from a very long distance and insult surface and sea targets also from a long distance rather than a 'visual'. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Secondly, it makes no sense, ladies and gentlemen, to buy aircraft for the last generation or to upgrade aircraft, without at the same time making sure you get the modern weapons that are needed. Weapons are the ones that make aircraft fully effective - ready to fight, I would say - and these are the ones that make the difference in the field of combat and not the aircraft itself, whether it is timed, or a new generation, if it does not have the necessary weapons. The third point is that we will also buy the last type of Rafah, namely F3-R, the version that was completed at the end of 2019-2018, ladies and gentlemen. And it includes this plane, among other things, self-protection systems for our aircraft and for our pilots from threats to enemy aircraft. Therefore, we do not need to install such systems, as was the case in previous aircraft markets, such as F-16, so that a new tender is required for the acquisition of a self-protected system and thus the cost is greater than if it had been included in their original market. Fourthly, the lightly used aircraft will be upgraded according to the specifications that our Air Force will determine by the manufacturer of DASSAULT. Also, this company will buy - and be careful, because it has not so far been said - the old aircraft to be withdrawn from Miraz - 2000, eighteenth of the number. The price will be fixed by the Committee set up by the Air Force and will be agreed with the French. This price will be deducted from the cost of the Rump F3-R market. Fifthly, the acquisition of this strategicly important integrated weapon system will result in the Aegean air superiority, which has stimulated the morality of military personnel and especially of the Air Force, where the enthusiasm is very great. Finally, Mr President, we can say with certainty that our role as a member of the strategic axis of Greece, Cyprus, Egypt and Israel is being upgraded and the military power of the Armed Forces is being increased to support our interests in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean. I would like to congratulate, by ending, the political and military leadership of the Ministry of National Defence because it has managed to proceed within a very short period of time with an agreement that really makes me proud and characterize the government deeply effective and our Prime Minister Mrs Mitsotakis as 'the fifth step'. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that all of us must now come to mind the saying of Pericles 'the times of refreshment' and the meaning of it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Hatzidakis. Good evening, both of you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Loverdos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, my speech today will stand on an issue which I think we all have in mind, which I would like to make a few comments on. It is the issue of the country's defensive shielding as a key element of our foreign policy. I note here, in order not to develop many thoughts later, that we as a PASOK, as a Change Movement, have repeatedly proposed to the previous government and to the present National Foreign Policy Council that it be completed in its composition by the permanent presence of the Minister of Defence. And if this did not happen at the time of tension with the violations of our sovereign rights by Turkey, because it would be an indication, perhaps, of weakness or panic, which in no way existed in our country, now that we are also going to carry out exploratory orders. Because when you discuss foreign policy, you must know exactly where you are from the point of view of the country's defensive armour. There are too many studies, there are very many of them expressly about the issue of 'defence as a prerequisite for an independent foreign policy', which would be a real surplus of mention. I would like to convey a classic phrase, however, that if you want peace, you are preparing for war,'si vis pacem para bellum'. I would also like to mention a very specific and characteristic book, recently from ELIAMEP under the diligence of Thanos Dokos, the White Paper on Greek foreign policy, defence and security, and from there to transfer a village to the National Representation, that "strengthening of dissuasive power is imperative in order to enjoy and respond to the great challenges of our foreign policy in a dynamic way". Look, it is twice as necessary for the country now, as what we have seen in the 1990s, Madam President, and honourable Members, as a major thinker and deterrent equipment for the European Union, has shown that this is not the case. And it proved that this is not the case, as we lived in 2020, and not as in Greece, but as the Germans themselves understand, who are critical, the German press - the serious German press - in Chancellor Merkel, because it failed as President of the European Council to behave worthy of the needs and circumstances when it was against Turkey's provoking, aggressive and invasive behaviour. I never speak to the House when it does not have its CV that I belong to the important moments for which I urge the Government to respect them, follow them, continue them. I am proud that I am a party that has equipped the country. And it was a top moment for the party with what we have lived in recent years, when with our intervention - through me this time - the present Minister, Mr Panagiotopoulos, really showed a attitude of sincerity when he accepted that our equipment with the submarines, the submarines that were raised, the submarines for which we were swept away, the submarines for which these proposals for pre-request committees and petitions of Ministers, all that we threw into the sea - the evolution flew them into the sea - were here today to admit - in his honor! - that the Turks were looking for us in the Aegean and they didn't find us. It is his phrase. So, because we have this past, we also have the right to say what we have to say to the House, especially after the information that this House had in the previous period of the House from the then Minister of Defence, Mr Kammenos, to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, that the situation of the country in defence was not appropriate. And I say it very elegant, very kindly. Whoever was in that meeting, whose content we have taken care of all the Members present and all the Members present, the situation was somewhat more negative than the way I am expressing myself today. So, as PASOK, as a Change Movement, yes, in a concrete way, in a defensive shield movement of the country with the addition - and I conclude with that, Mr President - a statement and support of an amendment which has two legs. From what I have been informed by Mr Kegeroglu, the Minister has accepted one of these so far. So it's got two legs. Firstly, the company has a duty to inform the National Representation at regular intervals of six months, and secondly, that the company has an obligation, since it has been informed in a very concrete and clear manner about the possibilities of the Hellenic Defence Industry, to inform the Greek Defence Industry in order to seek cooperation. We hope that this very sensible and serious amendment will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Yiannis Ragussis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard from our rapporteur, Mr George Tsipras, our position and our arguments on this bill and this decision on the acquisition of the Rafah fighter aircraft. So I won't repeat everything you've already heard. Because, in the meantime, the speech of the Minister of National Defence, Mr Panagiotopoulos, but also of the President of the Greek Parliament, I would like to put to the attention of this House some basic points, because it is good - I will not say to restore the truth, I will say something milder - to put things on the right foot. This is important. It is, first of all, important to say that 2020 was not a good year for the rearming of the Armed Forces. 2020 was a bad year, with the "ORUÄ REIS" in six miles from our islands, with Turkish warships at six miles from our islands. Mr Panagiotopoulos, 2020 for our sovereign rights and the Armed Forces was not a good year. Secondly, we must put on the right basis even today's debate, which is the final debate on this important decision. You are not the one who lure us, as you have said features, to this race and we who are sympathetic to it. Here we are, Mr Panagiotopoulos, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, because you have been completely surprised to face - and together with you, unfortunately, all of us and the Greek people and home - the developments from the aggression and provocativeness of Turkey that broke out in the summer, despite our warnings of the previous period. And the greatest proof of how right we are when we accuse you of not following a strategy is precisely this surprise that you have claimed. And the speed you are talking about is an emergency and de facto velocity, because of the peak of Turkish provocativeness. It is certain that if not all of these provocative acts of questioning our country's sovereign rights from our neighbour had not been implemented today, we would not be discussing the acquisition of the Rafahs. You had not announced this in the previous period, since the takeover of the government, in the programming declarations or in general in the declarations. You were forced to do it, and obviously we are forced in this context to say 'yes' to the acquisition of the Rafahs, which is actually a 'yes' to national defence, it is a 'yes' to the integrity of our country, it is a 'yes' to the historical and patriotic responsibility that we obviously have and we must take part in it. Thirdly, an important issue for which I think we should say things the way they are, that is to put this on the right basis, because the President of Parliament approached it in this way, is this: there has been amnesia in the previous years for the Armed Forces? Was there indifference in the strengthening of the Armed Forces? Suddenly now there is a government which alone has the political will to resolve all these important problems that had accumulated in the Armed Forces, around this large and critical armaments sector, from the smallest screw, as has been said, to the war aircraft? No, that's not the truth. The truth is that for ten years Greece has been literally found impossible and unable to meet the basic needs required by the conditions and the problems of maintenance of the Armed Forces. Why, though, was it in this situation, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? For the simple reason that you and your party in 2009 have created an unthinkable deficit in this country. Greece's primary deficit in 2009 was EUR 24 billion. That was what led to the forced assembly of the memorials then, despite the views that everyone can have about what and how it should or should not have done. The fact is one and it is undeniable: the country could not meet these defensive obligations for ten years, Parliament and the governments could not fulfil their obligations towards strengthening and maintaining our weapons systems, towards the Armed Forces, because we were bankrupt. And we were bankrupt, because you in particular - you, as a government, then, as a party and some of you and as natural persons - participated in this inconceivable deficit of 24 billion. Mr Panayotopoulos, if you have the possibility - and this is evidence of restoring the truth - to proceed with all these policies needed to supply the Armed Forces and also to carry out this programme, it is, in the final analysis, why you have received a country with EUR 37 billion primary surplus, which gives Greece this possibility today. In other words, if you had received Greece in 2019 as you delivered it in 2009, not Raphall would not buy Greece today, no screws could not buy, but as in 2012 would not even have fuel to fly its war aircraft. Because, in 2012 - those who have served the Armed Forces know this very well - as in 2011 and 2013 and 2014, there was fuel to fly our war aircraft for two months ahead, for three months, and then they did not exist. Why? Because the country didn't have any money. And why didn't the country have any money? Because the country was bankrupt by the 2009 deficit. So that is what we must also say, in order to restore the truth. That it really can take this step today - not the government, but Greece - is due to the fact that yes, the fiscal order in the country has been restored and has created thanks to the sacrifices of the Greek people, the bloody economic sacrifices of the Greek people, this primary surplus, the great pillow, thanks to which we are going to all areas of policy, including those we are discussing today. I will go to the fourth point, which we must also say exactly how the data are. Today Mr Tsipras told you something you might not expect, as I did - and I think it was obvious to all of us - a weakness on your part that you could predict what we are going to do. And I'll tell you later. He told you that, because we are not a New Democracy, we say 'yes' to the acquisition of the Rafahs. Let me tell you a little bit more, if you'll excuse me, what Mr. Tsipras meant about. If we had the logic - which, not always, has your own party - of Scandalology, today we would not say 'yes' to the Rafahs. Why? Because we could have been caught by a large number of reasons and, in fact, by existing events that have taken place throughout this period, behind which we could have held, in order to come here today either to vote for or to vote against this agreement, scandaling. For example, there was the urgent procedure which you had announced before Christmas, which did indeed take the cause of this public confrontation between two Members of the New Democracy - the Presidents of the two committees, because, as he had to, this convention did not go to the Committee on Military Affairs. There was the fact - here is Mr Tsipras, he asked me to convey it - that the contracts were actually given to the Members on Tuesday morning, not weeks earlier or months earlier, but on Tuesday morning, yesterday. Also, the fact that the guarantee of 10% provided by law goes down to 5% in other circumstances or, as the President of Parliament said, at other times, would not be at this moment a flag of Scandalology, about which people could conspire here and say what is happening and what is not done? The lack of any reference to strengthening the defence industry? There would be a lot of reasons if anyone wanted to scandal, do it. But if anyone really is aware of the historical moments that all of us are leading us, but also of the patriotic responsibility to take over from home, the nation, the people and the Armed Forces, it is clear today that he can only say 'yes' to the acquisition of the Raphalis, with the emphasis - and this, Mr Panagiotopoulos, please, keep it - that we will continue to do so on the issues of the Armed Forces. Not only will we monitor the implementation, but do not take this 'yes' for the Raphael we are giving today as a 'yes' and for the next choices that will either come to the House or come from the information that has already been made public regarding your intentions and your design. This is not the time to speak in concrete terms. A partial issue - in today's debate, but it is not an individual one - is, since we are here today, Mr Panayotopoulos, that I would like to emphasise you very much, because you are going to go ahead with the recruitment of soldiers in the next period and because you are a member of a government - which, as has been seen and yesterday, has been the debate on the ASEAN bill by the Ministry of Interior - that the hammering of all anti-population I think was very clear and was based on a lot of incidents that we have and we have documented and denounced throughout this period, perforated by merit and objectivity in the entire public sector. If it goes through your mind that the New Democracy parties will be opened up, from which the young people and young people of our country will have to pass to the Armed Forces and indeed, if it goes through your mind that this will be done without suffering a heavy political cost from the complaints we are going to make, I tell you from now on that you are mistaken. We are here - to underline this - obviously to help and work together to have a worthwhile and objective process for these recruitments, but if we take a hambari that you are going again to get the well-known rumphetologicals you have done for the special guards, for the border guards, for the veterinarians and a number of other specialities, with which you have filled the Greek public, we are telling you now that we will actually have a very strong political upheaval on these issues, because for us it is crucial, because they are about the Greek youth, hundreds of thousands of Greeks, who have the right to democracy, have the right to objectivity, they have the right to a fair society. If they deserve to hire, hire, not if they deserve, not hire, because your 'children' once again will be what you prefer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And lastly - and this is what I am closing down, Mr President - it is this. We have told you on several occasions - and the Chief of Officerial Response has told you, Mr Alexis Tsipras, has been permanently obsolete - that our great objection to the way in which you are going from foreign policy to defence issues is a lack of strategy. So we urge you, once again, to leave the majestics, to draw up a strategy. It is no exaggeration to recall that in the first ten months - twelve months, where Mr Mitsotakis went, the Greeks learned one thing that we were buying F -35, the other that we were buying freshmen and suddenly learned that we were buying Rafah. Create strategy, then, let the easy process of creating superficial impressions and especially expectations to the Greek people. Nor are the Rafah vaccines or the solution for all problems. If there's a vaccine in the Armed Forces, that's the Armed Forces' spiritual potential, it's the men and women of the Armed Forces. Yes, these are the Armed Forces vaccine and for the territorial integrity of our country the most powerful weapon we have. Draw up a strategy, why? Because the difficulties ahead of us are both for the Ministry of Defence and for the Armed Forces, they are not the hard ones behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u60	Thank you too, Mr Ragosi. Mrs Marietta Giannakou from New Democracy has the floor. Good evening, you guys can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, the current geopolitical conditions, the challenges and threats to the security of our country and the wider region require Greece to have strong and well-trained Armed Forces, with deterrent power. During 2020, our country has been - and is still - on operational and diplomatic standby, always with the security of the country. And the Raphael market - among other things actions - strengthens the defence, therefore also the deterrent capacity of the Armed Forces. Greece has no room to ignore this reality. To the naive question why so rushing, the quick answer concerns the fact that the receipt of the first aircraft takes six months from the signing of the contract. The most complex answer concerns the need to join the existing fleet of aircraft from our Air Force of modern fighters, which will enhance operational capabilities. That is why this type of aircraft has been selected. With regard to the issue raised by colleagues in the Opposition that there should not be waste of defence in the midst of a financial problem, the simple answer concerns the air superiority that can be guaranteed by Greece against Turkey and the fact that this type of aircraft is the country's defence to be at the best operational level possible. I should like to add, in order to avoid misinterpretation, that there will also be pre-contractual review by the Court of Auditors. There could be something else, in this case. For many years now - and the oldest colleagues will remember - it is an analyst that it would be a wish to do something in the context of reducing the budgets available to the weapons systems for European cooperation, in which our country is also involved. This is because defence budgets are often used ineffectively because of the fragmentation of the European market in defence, costly overlapping, military capabilities, inadequate industrial cooperation and lack of interoperability. The Member States of the European Union must certainly work together to develop and acquire defence equipment and technology. I was and I am convinced that developing synergies at European level can reduce expenditure, improve efficiency. This, with the participation of the national defence industries, always, depending on their potential, but also the proper and without obstacles to the functioning of the internal market in the field of armaments, research and defence technologies. 2020 was, among other things, a year of increased geopolitical uncertainty. Next year it seems to be also unpredictable, with today's data wanting Turkey to remain an unstable factor, despite the start of the exploratory talks between the two countries. The fact that Turkey has taken military action in various countries, such as Syria, Libya, Somalia, and the conclusion of the illegal Turkish- Libyan memorandum leave no room for reassurance. For this reason, our country must be well equipped to strengthen the mentality of the Armed Forces and national unity. Mr President, the National Representation is now being called upon to approve the draft conventions as provided for in the draft law under discussion, with the certainty that an important step is being taken in favour of the deterrent effect of our country, which is, moreover, the necessary and appropriate treaty for its security and defence. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakou. Mr Ioannis Burnus has the floor from SYRIZA and Lesvos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u63	Every debate and decision of the National Representation on national defence and its strengthening must be conducted in the appropriate seriousness and with a sense of responsibility, not only because our country's sovereign rights are in constant dispute with its neighbour, but also because of the past that we have in this country, the past of huge defence equipment scandals, which have even led to a long-standing debt crisis. What we are voting on has consequences for defence, deterrent power, but also for the national economy and the country's prestige. Against all of this, we have here an unacceptable, irresponsible supply process, not to buy spare parts or ammunition, other new fighter aircraft at a cost of 2.5 billion, to buy the "get of the spear" of our national defense for the next few years. You cannot, in other words, delay unexplained other programmes entirely necessary, such as the support and spare parts for the Miraz 2000-5, which have been delayed for months after the legislature, but make you feel urgent especially with the Ruffalo and do not have a week to study the contracts. For such an important supply, which will determine the power balance in the Aegean Sea for decades, the normal legislative procedure could even be followed. We do not even talk about the laws and procedures that you had established for the supply of arms systems being respected. You are bringing us a contract for formal approval, monographed by the other party, without any possibility of improvement. In fact, the Rafahs are extremely airplanes. But is this how we supply war aircraft? Did he give me anything and I took it? They told me it was very good and I rushed in four months to buy it? Every weapon purchased and paid by the Greek people must comply with two conditions. Firstly, it must meet our needs and standards, as the Armed Forces are calling upon to use them. Secondly, to achieve it at the least cost. Do these criteria apply in this case? You will answer 'yes'. But how do you know? Did you do everything you need to make sure that these fighters are the most appropriate and are given us on the best possible terms? You are not aware of this because you have never followed the intended procedures, including a recommendation from the Staff on the basis of the needs and priorities of armaments for all branches, study and market research for competitive aircraft types, on the basis of specific specifications. When you want to bypass long-term processes and buy fast and with the money in your hand, everyone will run to serve you. The European states have been planning and negotiating the procurement of fighters for years. You could have gotten prices for other aircraft in a month or two for the specifications you would have put them in and compared. At least, even if it was a predetermined choice, you would get an idea and close your mouths of criticism. But let's not make fun of ourselves. The decision came from "over" rather than from the Air Force. He came directly from Mr. Mitsotakis for reasons of his own and completely opaque. Basically, you made a direct assignment at a cost of 2.5 billion. You made a choice safe from the point of view of aircraft quality, but blurred and destructive to the conditions accompanying it. The final state of Mr Mitsotakis leads to the complete ignorance of the most competent, specialist and technocrat states, which, otherwise, constantly invoke. Your final state decides in the 'foot', at the will of Maximus, and that is how serious matters arise. The convention is far too precarious for the French side. Are there any guarantees of good operation for used Raphael, which are identical or comparable to those for new ones? Because they don't seem to exist. You have then received twenty-five years' support. That's right. But have you calculated the cost of the Ruffalo's life? How much will it cost us to keep them for the next twenty-five years? Because companies from these are gaining, from ambiguity in the cost of supporting over decades. Are there any tariffs and adjustment clauses for such services in the contract? Is the infrastructure of the Miraz 2000-5 compatible with the infrastructure required for the Rafalis, or will it require new costs? You also have the confidence that we will agree after "DASSAULT" on the sale to the old Mirages. And you were sure, Mr. Panayotopoulos, that he would give us a good price. How do you know? How is the Greek State guaranteed? We're a state. We cannot rely on the good mood of a company. Perhaps the main one: Why has Greek manufacturers not been given work? Why didn't you demand that the Greek industry be involved and co-operate with DASSAULT? You did not give a convincing answer. In fact, you told us that this was what DASSAULT wanted. I would like to inform you, however, that even in the supply of the Miraz 2000-5 of the same company to the government of Simitis, a significant task was given to Greek companies, and indeed, this project concerned the construction of the Rafalis. The problem with this contract is you're acting like they're doing us a favor. This spirit is evident in your word. After all, you are praised for their good will. Besides, it suits how your Chief deals with the mighty. You don't understand that we do them a favor. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] DASSAULT AVIATION had 7.3 billion turnover in 2019 along with civil aircraft and expected a turnover drop for 2020. And one good morning the Greek Government goes and gives them a 2.5 billion-dollar bonus, which is almost 40% of their turnover, out of nowhere and through negotiation of four months and not four years, as usual.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u64	Please complete, Mr. Burnus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u65	I shall conclude, Mr President. It found money at the DASSAULT, and indeed, with the incentive to integrate the main fighter of France into a European first-line air force. All this translates into very great negotiating power. We should have been the strong part in the negotiation, but this is not the case at all. I'm done with this. I hope your options do not prove fatal in future. The "gain of the spear" of our Air Force deserved more respect for procedures and legislation. We warn you, however, not to dare to do the same with the supply of wells.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much. The Parliamentary Representative from New Democracy, Mr Yiannis Vroutzis, is called at Step. Mr. Brutsi, iron! Happy New Year!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 2021 is a special year. It's a year - milestone. It is a year that we owe our national Parliament and all Greek citizens to see it differently. It's been two hundred years since the National Palagheesia. We must, first of all, show the political system first and foremost elements of maturity which must be brought back to our country's future by drawing examples from our country's historical past, from these two hundred years, through which the lessons of history itself must make us redefined in terms of our political behaviour and our political function. So I say that 2021 as a landmark goes in a different way. We welcome here in the House two flagrant, historical, important bills, two bills which will leave their stamp indelible through their contents. The first bill concerns what has already been discussed in committee and will come to plenary, and it is about the extension of the kayalitis zone to the west, to the Ionian Sea, by twelve nautical miles. It's a historic bill that extends our country's radius, our geographical radius. This bill did not come in an arbitrary way or in a unilateral way. It is a bill resulting from tough negotiation procedures by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Government itself, the Prime Minister, but at the same time it is based on the foundations of international law and the conventions of the Law of the Sea. That's the reality. And, of course, we have the inalienable right to extend to twelve nautical miles when we want to take other geographical directions of our country and when we have to exercise our right. The second bill is what we are discussing today in plenary. It is also an important bill, because the result it produces itself will change the fate of the future, as at least some people thought it was predetermined for our country. Greece is moving on to the market of eighteen fighter aircraft, the world's most advanced. Twelve Rafah-type fighter planes, with which, for the first time in many years, for historical reasons - they have also been said by this Step forward - we are coming as a country to buy an integrated equipped system. We are buying an armament system, for the first time after many years, through which we will change the balance between our neighbour Turkey and our country at air level. With this armament system it is certain that we will improve our country's operational capabilities, strengthen the Armed Forces and change the balances across the Armed Forces towards the neighbouring country. So, in order to buy this fate of Rafale, this bill comes under specific procedures, with a specific timetable, with market quantifiable, of 2.3 billion, also voted by the state budget that we voted on in December, to delineate the framework through which the purchase of these fighter aircraft is to take place. In particular, six of these fighter aircraft will come after July 2021, in 2021 they will land in our homeland, six will come in 2022 and the last six of the eighteen will come in 2023. The six new Ruffalo type fighter aircraft are the most modern ones in the world. These are the F3R-type Raphaels, which are one of the world's most recognised operational capabilities. So you understand that the purchase of these aircraft is changing a lot in our relations and our Armed Forces with neighbour Turkey. The most important thing, however, is that for the first time we are buying this armament programme along with its weapons. The Meteor missiles will enable us to change all the balance and the philosophy we have had so far. The Meteor missiles give us the possibility of absolute superpower in the Aegean. And as an Egyptian, knowing the need and anguish of our islanders, I feel proud that we are going to this market today, such as the entire Greek people. Before I go any further, however, in some of the other procedures in the bill, let me tell you that what the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has said about, in principle, the EUR 37 billion primary surplus - which has been said twice - which has already been deposited to our Government, is regarded as a joke and a good thing to redefinite this information either by asking Mr Tsakalotos or Mrs Ahtsioglou. For this is not the case, Mr Ragosi. However, what I cannot leave unanswered is what was said, that 2020 was a negative year for our country, implying negative thoughts about the Armed Forces. On the contrary, 2020 was a year when we can proudly stand and say that the Armed Forces and the Entrepreneurship of the Armed Forces stood up to the circumstances. They gave them an answer to Turkey and did so in the best possible way. That is why, instead of criticising, gentlemen of SYRIZA, they deserve congratulations to the Armed Forces who were called under adverse conditions and who gave the answer they had to in Turkey in the way they had to. So, no criticism of the Armed Forces, gentlemen of SYRIZA. With regard to the decision of a number of parties, namely two, to say 'no' to this bill, they will be judged by history. Because the logic under which 'no' and 'for world imperialism' entered, can only be heard as a funny argument. Here, gentlemen of the Communist Party, we are involved in history. Let's finally stop this ideologically outdated frame of reference you say "no" even in some things very important to our national identity, our national protection, our national sovereignty. I don't understand. You have also urged Mr Koutsouba to come to such a bill today to discuss the issues of education in order to defend a 'no' which does not convince anyone. You are judged by history and by the Greek people. The same, of course, for the Mera25. The "yes" with many asterisks that SYRIZA put in and the reservations he made are welcome. It is important that 'yes', gentlemen of SYRIZA, which is welcome. However, for the reservations which you have expressed and which have their merits, I think that on behalf of the Minister and the Deputy Minister the Committee on Foreign and Defence Affairs was given the opportunity yesterday to hold an extensive debate behind closed doors and all the issues you raise today have been answered as a reservation, and for the urgency of the drafting of the bill - I think that cannot be called into question - but also for the three conventions that we are now having to vote on as a Greek Parliament. I think that the reservations you have kept are included in a context of reasonable criticism, but in fact they have responded to the need for equipment for our country and the Armed Forces, but also to all the issues concerning grey areas of the equipment systems that Greece is going to buy through this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this historic bill will put its seal on and change our country's future on national issues and the future of the balances between Greece and Turkey. We all realize that. This large, important market that takes place here in our home country through this bill I think changes a lot about our country's history and future. I believe and wish - and I think this is the most important of all - that in 2021 will be a year that, as the Minister of National Defence Nikos Panayotopoulos said, we will see in the state budget that there will be costs recorded for the purchase of the four wells, with which the balance will fully change and our country will have operational power and advantage over its neighbour Turkey. I must conclude by congratulating the Armed Forces of our country, which under adverse conditions - as I said before - with self-determination and above all with love for the country, with a sense of patriotic duty, give all these years, in an environment difficult, as was described by the President of the Parliament, Mr Tasula, a battle and an effort to preserve the national sovereignty of our country. And they have done so in the best possible way, as they have done now, with this bill, within a very short period of time, the Directorate-General for Equipment. And they deserve congratulations, as are many congratulations to both the Minister and the State Secretary who led this effort and to the Prime Minister who made the decision to all of the Armed Forces for what they have done for their homeland and for the Greeks all these years. We, as a political system, have to be with them, support them, not to be criticised, but always to be close to them, as charitable in their efforts, which is an effort for our country, for the future generations, for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u69	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u70	Here, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I just want to say that it was indeed the well-known spread of the language, the lapsus. I was referring to 'cushion' and not to a primary surplus, to which I referred for 2009, the EUR 24 billion. ‘Maxilari’, therefore, and not a primary surplus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u72	It's necessary, I think, clarification. There is a reason for the Jewish Mr Anastasios Prussakis from the New Democracy. Have a good year, Mr. Prison. You can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is an attempt to increase the fight power and deterrent capacity of the Armed Forces. The Eastern Mediterranean region is characterised by complex security challenges which can affect our country. History has served us with a neighbor who in recent years has been engaged in provoking, revising and violating behavior. Acts like the patron and draws arbitrary maps. The flights of Turkish fighter aircraft over the Greek islands in 2019 were a hundred and twenty-four. Last year the figure was unprecedented and notice this, please, ladies and gentlemen. There were three hundred seventy-five! Nine of them were above Evros, with the known restraining sizes that this county has. This has happened since 1993, that is, twenty-seven years. Faced with these challenges, the government acts with coolness and morality. He remains faithful to the orders of international law and good neighbourly principles. At the same time, we are strengthening our regional alliances and taking important diplomatic victories. The country is no longer a clear vine and is not unarmed, as has been made by the perpetrators. And, indeed, they move your hand too! The government strengthens our national power, maintains the integrity of the Armed Forces and increases their deterrent ability. This is also the purpose of the draft law. In a record time, the government brings forth a complex and large armament programme to be approved and directly strengthens the capabilities of the Air Force. It is about the acquisition of eighteen aircraft Raphall with all its accessories and intended weapons. At the same time, the existing missiles are supported and upgraded. At the same time, the start of the training phase is under way. The first flying officers were selected to go to France for the first stage of training. Ladies and gentlemen, the first post-war victory towards the neighbour was noted in the nationally sensitive Evros. Greece sent a strong message in every direction, that it does not bow and is not blackmailed. The peculiar siege of Turkey has highlighted the usefulness of the implementation of the single security and defence doctrine, as well as this - please note - the deterrence by the force that is taking place - by the government. The regular Army, along with the Reserve and the National Guard, are the Greek army. In fact, well-organised, equipped and trained headquarters and ethnic guards can, in particular, play an important role in border regions. They proved it to be awkward last March. There are many fields beyond what the Greek state has legally entrusted to them, the guarding of objectives of military interest. It is therefore necessary to ensure the sustainability and expansion of the institutions of the Reserve and the National Guard. The use of their personnel, by strict rules, in the preservation of land borders, will be useful. They've proved it recently. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are achieving the qualitative and quantitative upgrading of the Armed Forces. They are called upon to play a crucial and demanding role in safeguarding our sovereign rights and territorial integrity, thus highlighting the strong imprint of their deterrent power. 'We heal' the wounds that the previous government inherited us. We're turning the country into an impregnable fortress. I am sure - and we feel it there in Evros - that we will continue to do the right thing, further shielding our borders and equipping the Armed Forces perfectly. To conclude, I appreciate - and, of course, I wish - that we are taking the historic steps of our predecessors, with the historic decisions of 1903 and 1933. Keep the dates. Then, basically, our Armed Forces were reorganized and they achieved victorious wars that grew up and solidated Greece in Europe and the international community. This country must defend itself. Unfortunately, we've been late for at least ten years. Now it's the golden, the key. Now we must run because today's challenges, threats and other correlations call on us not to forget and, indeed, to remember every day the doctrine of preventing power. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u74	Thank you too, Mr Prussakis. Lefkaditis Mr Athanasios Kavadas from New Democracy has the floor. Happy New Year, Mr. Kavada.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you, too, a good year to all and everyone with health. Parliament in these days is the focus of major events. Two top bills for national interests come for discussion and ratification: One for the expansion of our territorial waters to the twelve nautical miles to the Ionian Sea and the current one for the acquisition of the eighteen aircraft Raphala and their weapons systems. Both demonstrate the efficiency of the Greek Government in the field of international political and diplomacy, which shields our country at political and military level towards those who are in charge of national integrity. The three agreements we are discussing today relate to the supply of six new and twelve used aircraft Rafah, their continued support from the construction companies 'DASSAULT', 'THALES', and 'SAFRAN' and the supply of their weapons. These agreements are another important step in the government's effort to increase the fighting power and deterrent capacity of the Armed Forces, because only with powerful Armed Forces can the country be strong in the diplomatic field. At this point I must congratulate the political and military leadership both on their choice and on the successful and rapid conclusion of the negotiation for this very important agreement. The three conventions we are discussing today have preceded the upgrading of the eighty-four F-16 aircraft in Viper, the support of the Miraz 2000/5 and the C-130 transport fleet and the C-27, the completion of the construction of two fireflies, and the increase in the budget for armaments expenditure to EUR five and a half billion. And there are many more steps to be taken to the total of five projects that will be implemented within the next five to seven years and which are part of the country's costed medium-term armaments programme. Raphael contracts are the largest armament programme in recent years, worth one billion nine hundred and twenty million euros for the eighteen aircraft and four hundred million euros for the weapons. The first six aircraft will be delivered in 2021, the next six within 2022 and the remaining six by 2023. This is a great success of the Greek Government, as it usually takes at least four years to deliver such a great commission. The contract provides for support for fighter aircraft with spare parts, equipment with modern air-air missiles Meteor and maintenance and modification of MICA, SCALP and EXOCET weapons systems. Indeed, these systems can be used by both the Miraz 2000/5 of the Air Force and the new Rhafas. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece acquires fighter aircraft between the fourth and fifth generations, with technology and equipment that change balances and data, as they can identify and target enemy aircraft from a greater distance. The Meteor missiles have a very long radius of action up to fifty kilometers, and they have three or four times the speed of the missiles of the respective weapon systems currently in the Aegean Sea. Aircraft have the top electronic warfare system, while they can transmit or exchange information in real time with other aircraft, warships, artillery and anti-aircraft systems. They have the potential to impose a strategic and operational advantage not only in the field of air-air but also in the field of air-ground. They use secure digital connection systems with other aircraft, to exchange data in real conditions, which is a qualitative advantage. Ladies and gentlemen, strengthening the country's deterrent power is a national matter. The country's Armed Forces are over parties, political plans and purposes. They guarantee our national sovereignty and entity. They belong to the whole nation. Since the relocation to date, the sovereign political forces, government and opposition, national governments have voted in favour of defence expenditure by sending a clear and substantial message of national unity. It was a sad exception that the Police Officer was chosen to vote for the first time against defensive expenditure in the State budget of 2021. At a time when our country is experiencing an extreme aggression and questioning its national sovereign rights to vote in favour of the Rafah Convention is an act of national responsibility and awareness of reality. It is an act of strengthening and trusting against the country's Armed Forces. Because peaceful coexistence and the implementation of international law have as a prerequisite and guarantee the existence of a strong deterrent capacity. I shall close, Mr President, as soon as possible. As a former air force officer, having linked my life to the weapon, I particularly feel the national weight of today's historic decision. Our Air Force is going through a different era today. That is why I call on all the parties, all the representatives of the Greek people in Parliament to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Kavada. Parliamentary spokesman from Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis is called at Step. Then Mr. Hetas will take the floor from the Greek Solution and will be followed by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Stefanis. You have the floor, Mr Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good year to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Ministers. I had written two texts today for this occasion and I had a great dilemma with which to begin. I was solved by the Prime Minister and the government of Mr Chrysochidis who decided to hit Greek students completely unnecessarily again. I do not know if you know, ladies and gentlemen, that today the student movement, the students of Greece - and not the "bugs" - is nothing illegal, nothing strange - our students, our children, our young people, have decided to protest democratically in the upcoming bill of Ms. Kerameos. Their gathering was entitled "Police outside our schools" - they are their schools and not EL. Of course - and a number of other requests, such as immediately withdrawing all these absurds that Mrs Keramea's bill on how to introduce, as we hear, can be a student. They've been tested before, I remind you, and they've failed before. These aren't the interesting things. The real interest is this, how the government reacted to a peaceful course for the fair demands of Greek students. The students told her before. It was not forbidden, it was never forbidden by the police. It was announced at 12 o'clock this afternoon in the Propylaea. What did ELSA do? And Mr. Chrysochoidis? He sent ten degrees of MATs at 8.00 a.m. in the morning to take over the space so they can't go for legal - I repeat - and not forbidden gathering our students. He had arranged beforehand not to stop the subway in the attitude that would help people to go to this gathering and took the place of concentration as "bugs" our police, as they have been used to be lately, unfortunately. The students nonetheless surprised them. A couple of five hundred and a half were gathered and they arrived in the area, even though they were seized, they were betrayed, terrified, so they wouldn't get there. When the chief of police saw the students get to the scene, what did he do? He took them to the hunt without any challenge. There is no video showing even a bottle of water, not a molotov or a stone, but a bottle of water or even launching a fascination, a prodigy. Nothing. So he took them to the hunt, locked them in the Korai Square. Until then all the health protocols were observed with piety. By the time they were shut down, naturally hunted by men of MATs, by many degrees of MATs, these five hundred people were compacted in a sense and automatically compromised their physical integrity and health. And as if not all of this were enough, when they formulated their intention to walk on Queen Sofia Avenue, they accepted an entirely inexplicable, unfounded, unfounded, barbaric attack once again by the Greek Police, the men of the MATs in particular, with chemicals. They brought "Aida" to show us, they didn't use it, but they brought it to see, to fear. You'll tell me: it's not strange. And I am not surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not strange for you to have noticed with me that this government has managed to do Christmas Eve and New Year's University Eve. And you know what I mean. I mean, it took us to have New Year's Eve and Christmas Eve six thousand police associates not to have New Year's Eve and Christmas Eve, as they were assigned to keep the Greek people out of their home on New Year's Eve and Christmas. And you know what? I am in favour of health measures - we have said so from the outset, we are absolutely - but this shows the power of the dishonour of your persuasion. It's zero. When you ask for responsibility and cooperation from citizens, you should treat them as if they were not animals, as if they were citizens. When you have Christmas Eve, at the celebration of Christianity the central one along with Easter, six thousand policemen on the street as if it were a Polytechnic or as if it were the anniversary of the terrible murder of Alexander Gregoriopoulou, then you have the responsibility for what was said. So it doesn't seem like you're hitting the students. This is where you hit Christmas, you hit New Year's Day. Let's get to the point. We, Mera25, Minister, in boldness, with leaps and honor, declares without any rotation, without any chewing his words, that he will certainly vote "no" in this bill. And do you know why he will vote 'no', why do we vote 'no' and do we not talk about it? Because for this very useful bill, as the New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman has just told us, Mr Brutsis, the regenerativeness of our country's ability to defend, so this wonderful bill, which, according to all previous Members from the government, will solve the problem, will change the balance in the Aegean, so this crucial and important bill has been given us half an hour to the people who represent the Greek people, to study six and a half thousand pages on special difficult technical terms. Do you know what that means? So we don't finally fool in here anymore. It means that the Mitsotakis Government did not want the representatives of the National Representation and the Greek people to be aware of what this convention means. And for a contract, for which we see your heat, we see your appetite not to know its details, and the House understands that'some pit has a pit'. The 'fat' of course will allow me to say that it has tens of dozens of years ago, not to say thousands of pits. For example, a rhetorical question: How did Greece find us a powerless country? Why did this country give Mr Erdogan the opportunity last month to bring his seismic ship six nautical miles from our Kastelorizo? Why is Mr. Erdogan so provocative? Because, as you have all said - and you, the representatives of the New Democracy - the country from 2005 to 2015, has done nothing about its equipment. You ruled, not even ruled PASOK, the longest of it, and of course SYRIZA did not govern until 2015. I'll see you later on about SYRIZA's positions. So I ask you this: did it fall, as we used to say from Mera25, from heaven that we suddenly did not have any firepower, that we suddenly became a powerless country? Oh, no. We were forced by another war. The war with Turkey is a possible war, which we all abstain from happening, and our deterrent power will help not to have such a war. But the war which has already been fought, so as not to be fooled, I repeat here, and we have already lost it on your behalf, is war with the unacceptable dictatorial institutions of the European Union, these illegal institutions, which are not provided for by any statutes. It is the war that you lost at the beginning ten years ago, after eight years and, finally, five and a half years ago. It is a war that we are continuing to lose and when we lose it one of its side-effects is that it is forbidden and equipped, as we are forbidden and forbidden to have financial instruments. I'm sorry, Mr. Stakoura, I'm sorry. And I don't say that scorpically, I'm not a rude man. I sympathize with every Minister of Economy anywhere on earth that doesn't have economic tools, which the budget is not in his hands, because if you don't have economic tools, you have no way to be responsible for what you do in your country's economy. This war you all lost him here intergrouply. "Who have been islanded" for this reason, you are not talking about this thing and the result is that we are a helpless country. So we are a completely helpless country and you are now coming to save us. How? With the splendid Ruffalo! Are the Rhapsal good aircraft? I can assure you, I have no doubt, Minister, that these are the best possible aircraft we could take. I have full confidence in the Chiefs of the Armed Forces, especially the Chief of HNDGS, of course, and the Chief of Air Force, who is responsible for it. I'm not an expert and I'd never question them. I happen to have high-ranking officers in our Air Force who have informed me personally that the Rafahs are a wonderful choice. I ask you directly, Minister: have you signed any conventions that he will not sell a hundred six Raphalls next month to Turkey, 'DASSAULT'? Because if you haven't signed it, those Ruffalos are as secure as the jacket I'm wearing! The Turks, who are fighting in three fronts and five countries, and have become accustomed to accepting dozens, hundreds or thousands of coffins, that is, they are ready to fight, which are much richer than us, who have a fascist government seeking war than it seems, to be sure that, if we overturn them, in a week, two weeks or three at the most, they will have managed to bring that balance back in their favour, precisely because no capitalist company like the huge 'DASAULT' is bound to sell the same and better or the same, and more than sixteen of ours, which I remind you of, ladies and gentlemen, the twelve used to Turks. So in short, a hole in the water! So you must make it to this House at all costs to believe that we will be saved from sixteen Rafah, of which twelve are secondhand, while at the same time Turkey has announced, for example, that it is building an airplane for the Aegean Sea. You don't know where they're driving all those things? They drive mathematically in what Merra25 has been denounced for so long: on an armament race. In the armament race, it is not the strongest, which Turkey is. Everyone loses, people loses, because armament races lead mathematically - historically we know it - in hot episodes and from the hot episodes all the countries lose. Do you know who wins? Big protectors win - in introductory or non-important - the ones you used to say "the great powers". Now they're big mobsters. You, the government, put a steward in the crisis with the Turks, forcing us to need the Rafahs so that we don't lose eggs and passovers with Mrs Merkel. Didn't you know that Mrs. Merkel had dozens, hundreds of factories in Turkey? Didn't you know that Mr. McCron had multiple interests from us in Turkey? Didn't you know in a few minutes that they'll never support us? You know what they wanted? To sell us Raphas and freshmen. And they did great! Before I close, you will allow me to tell you - and perhaps I will have to come back - that, ladies and gentlemen, the war as businessmen: Basil Sakharov. The first warship of modern history was Greek and even the most parasitic oligarch. Lucky? I don't think so. It is of great interest, therefore, on the occasion of the "market of the century" as you say it is about Mr.Mitsotakis, to look at this historic person, in the example of the Kingdom of Sakharov, who raised the warship in art and the oiling of politicians in perfect science. Does Mr. Vassilis Sakharov or Mr. Sakhari - do you remember anything? Yes, he is an entrepreneur - who lived from 1849 to 1936, he was a Greek big businessman - you would represent him today -, a arms dealer, but of course even to this day - and even though it is a counterfeiting of history - supposedly a great benefactor of Greece the beginnings of the twentieth century who played a significant back-up role in European policy at the time, to such an extent that the "mysterious man of Europe" or the "mysterious Greek". That's how he stayed acquaintance. The timing was ideal for arms sales after the Treaty of Berlin in 1878. Following the merger of the companies ‘NORDENFELT’ and ‘MAXIM’, Sakharov was now working at sales rates. These companies were building weapon systems such as ‘DASSAULT’. The Greek-Turkish War of 1897 was, like the Chinese-Japan War and the European wars at that time in Africa, the opportunity sought by the senator Mr. Sakharov and exploited it to the full and certainly brought him enormous gains and acquaintances in diplomatic and military circles. The sales tactic - I would mention it because I would like you to tell me honestly if it reminds you of something - that was following it was extremely smart. Note: He sold Greece a submarine "NORDENFELT", immediately afterwards went to Turkey and presented this market to the Turkish Government as a threat to Turkey. So she sold her two submarines, just the same submarines "NORDENFELT", creating the impression of submarine superpowering south of the Black Sea went to the Russians and said to them "they down there are arming, allied and torn you." And he sold them another submarine. Sakharov already owned a newspaper, EXCELSIOR, a bank, Union Parisienne, Paris, of course, and a press agency in Greece. Does that remind you of anything? Any parasitic oligarchs we all know who has a press agency in Greece? It was therefore through it that made the most of Greece's exit from neutrality and its entry into the war on the side of the allies. Well, you're gonna tell me all the way here. During the war, as earlier in the Balkans, he supported Greece with loans, with free war material, etc. and the amount reached as calculated by the allies, to understand Mr Sakharov's contribution, to £50 million, was unsatisfactory for the time. However, neither the allies nor the enemies have managed to calculate how much Mr Sakharov stole, how much the national benefactor has earned. Following the publication in 2005 of the classified documents of the Foreig Office of 1873 to 1939, evidence emerged that he worked as an agent of Britain against his homeland, as an ethnic traitor, i.e. to lead Greece to World War I on the side of Adad, France, Britain, Russia, etc. The title of ‘Sir’ has been given to those services. In a letter to his contact with the British Prime Minister, he says that for the bribes of the MPs in Greece he will need £1.5 million - in 1890 these - and with this money he would seek to buy forty-five specific Greek MPs. The British Prime Minister accepted these proposals, as stated in a letter of 11 December 1915 he gave Sakharov the money through the Barclay's Bank. With this money Greece entered the war. I won't give you any more time. So this is the national benefactor. He's really funny, his life and his state. And the most funny thing, if it wasn't tragic, is that we still bathe that son of a bitch as a so-called national benefactor, this double agent and the ethnic traitor. That's the way. That means warship. And you know why I'm saying that? I do not claim that we have proof - and I have immediately finished, Mr President - that one of you, one of you, will make something, as Mr Chohatzopoulou once said, by thousands, remember. We claim, however, that your warming does not mean that the Greek delegation does not know the details of this contract. And because there have been many Mr Zachari and Mr Sakharov who have been in this country and are still being bathed as national benefactors, we warn you that this is why we do not vote for your contract and that we do not need any others, we are full of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u80	The Minister has the floor. Minister, I told you a good year ago, but you didn't notice me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u81	The honourable Parliamentary spokesman for Mera25 seems to have not previously heard the speech of the President of Parliament, Mr Tasoula, and has already begun to serve as a scandal with the well-known denouncing style of those who are luxurious never come to the position of those who have to make difficult decisions in order to imply what is going on? That he's got a pit on his face? That all this is suspicious? That we tried to hide these days things? I would remind you that the first briefing of this House through the Committee on Equipment at a five-hour meeting - you say a lot in five hours, you provide a lot of explanations - took place on 17-12 and concerned precisely the committee's information not on an opinion on the programme, but on why our aim was, from the outset, to inform the Members of Parliament about the Raphala. That's where we described the road map. The conventions came from the Ministry of Defence to the Greek Parliament on January 5th, if I am not mistaken, so that the representatives of the parties can be informed on the initiative of the Greek Parliament. As you can see, contracts could not be distributed, not the final bill. But the final bill of law in three of his four articles actually has to do with these conventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u82	No contract, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u83	Don't interrupt, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u84	Articles 1, 2 and 3 are contracts in substance, DASSAULT and subsequent support, NBA for arms. The two-day debate that has taken place in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence was very intensive. Around twelve to thirteen hours I think we have consumed in order to answer all the technical issues and the issues relating to the legal architecture of this piece of legislation and the issues of good performance of contracts, receipts, payment issues, partial receipt of aircraft, etc. I think that adequate answers have also been given on the confidentiality of part of these contracts that were, as you can see, confidential, particularly sensitive to national security and industrial confidentiality of information manufacturers. I believe that if someone were to obscure or hide something, we would not go to more than sixteen hours to discuss explanations, querying questions, etc. I also think that this development eventually, this extensive in time and intensified information that has finally taken place has been appreciated by some parties in the Greek Parliament, which, by voting in favour of them, have, if you like, come in the field of the adoption of this legislation as a whole while maintaining, and very well, making any reservations. You will have many opportunities, Mr Colleague, both you and your party and the representatives of all the parties from here to watch and supervise the good performance of these conventions. You will do so because, among other things, I have accepted, and I would be pleased if you would like, the amendment proposed by the KINAL to the second subparagraph of this paragraph, the second paragraph, so that there is a periodic assessment every six months by the Committee on Equipment of Parliament, by the Members of all the groups, namely the good execution of these conventions. You'll have a lot of opportunities. One chance, however, you have just lost, Mr MERA25 Parliamentary Representative, the opportunity to join this cross-party consensus, as I said, in trying to strengthen the armed forces by voting in favour of the Rafah bill. And to answer the question you raised as to whether we were negotiating and achieving Turkey's exclusion clauses from any Rafah market or any other arms system from the 'DASSAULT', I would like to say that they are not in the real world. There is no way in which a State is compatible with a private company. So that's not happening. But what has happened and is beyond doubt proven to be that Turkey has bought nothing from DASSAULT since 1974 and then when Greece acquired the Miraz. As many possibilities as it may have been for Turkey to buy Rafalis from DASSAULT with the consent of the French side as well as from now on, Turkey had the other chance of buying from DASSAULT since 1974 and the Miraz that are available to the Air Force. Otherwise, I do not want to follow this style of early Scandalism before even voting in favour of this bill. I am really sorry for this kind of approach to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u86	Wait a minute, Mr. Gregoriadis. I'll give you the floor. Mr Minister, I beg your pardon, you have referred to the second part of the amendment to KINAL. Have you answered whether you're accepting it or not and I don't understand it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u87	I said that from the Step to my main location. I am recognizing the second part: ‘The Minister of National Defence shall inform the Parliament's Committee on Equipment for the implementation of the contracts referred to in Article 1, 2 and 3 of the Bill at specific meetings held for this purpose every six months from their entry into force’. That's what I'm accepting. It will obviously be incorporated into the body of the bill and these opportunities will be given to monitor, because we all want to monitor and, above all, to ensure the smooth implementation of these conventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. I asked mainly for it because Mr Katrinis would follow, knowing what to say. Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I won't need a minute. Thank you for answering me, Minister, you know that I respect you personally, as I respect all my colleagues here. It's obvious I'm not a fool. I know very well that private companies can't make such conditions. My question was why you pretend you don't know that. My question is very clear. You come here, Minister, and you triumphantly tell us that we have defeated them, that balance has now been overturned. And I ask you a straight question: can Turkey take thirty times this tomorrow? Of course I know that it is a private company 'DASSAULT'. It's my argument. Because it's just a private company, I'm telling you, Minister, that it can take twenty-six brand-news tomorrow. That's what I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr Gregoryde. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution. We have a change in the team. After Mr. Hetas, Mr. Katrinis, Parliamentary Representative of KINAL, then the Deputy Minister, Mr. Stefanis, will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Man, Clalona Gregoriadis, it's a nice world you're describing. It's a world of flowers, no war, no hunger, no border. You can't do that. You know, fairy tales, we'll tell the kids to sleep. Here we have a reality. Greece has neighbours of concern, vigilant, claiming and must take its measures. What can we do now? What you describe is a world without oil, without hydrocarbons, without mining, without them with green? What can we do? Are we going to talk in real time, or are we going to dream of other things? Let's go down. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we are pleased today. We feel a double satisfaction, because we believe that the only area in which one cannot politically confront is national defence. It's the only field. All parties have so many opportunities and opportunities to be seated for all the rest, but when it comes to national defence, I believe that the purpose is one and the same. So satisfaction, Mr Ministers, is twofold, firstly because our country is being strengthened, our Armed Forces are being strengthened, and this is an undeniable fact. And we're satisfied with that. The second satisfaction, having put the country above all, is that this market of the Rafalis is a proposal - or even suggestion, if you like - of the Greek Solution and the President of Kyriakos Velopoulos. On August 6, Minister, he made the proposal directly to Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Kyriakos Velopoulos, to leave F-35 and to take the Rafas immediately, because Greece needed it. On 6 August it was Kyriakos Velopoulos' proposal to the Prime Minister of the country. So this is the double satisfaction we have. On the one hand, our homeland is being strengthened, and on the other hand the Greek Solution has an important role to play in development, in defence, in logic and in the proposal, because I repeat that national defence is not an area of confrontation. It is space to point you two - three things, to say two - three ideas and if you agree, to implement them. For all the rest, let's take our eyes off. But here on national defence issues, no! Get away from me! Mr Brutsis, I am not saying that you said this about us, but we would like to make something clear. At no point is the Greek Solution - at least we are talking about us - we have not criticised or criticized for the integrity of the Armed Forces. Don't get confused! Never! Never! I'm not saying you said that about us. I'm saying that to make it clear. We have never criticised the integrity of the Armed Forces, for whom we are both quiet and proud! Another degree of readiness for the Armed Forces and another degree of readiness, i.e. the level of armaments that we are entangled in. That's all. The criticism and we will be exercising and will be very strong, will be in the parties that have been ruling, in the political leadership every time - not you, Mr Stefani, who are now a politician, but you are from the family of the Armed Forces - and you are never in the Armed Forces. He will always be in the political leadership that has really done very great harm. And we've come to the point today to get these Raphalis. I'm really not going to say a lot of things. There are two features simply of the Rafahs that make them, in fact, the first option for any Air Force. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] It is the Meteor missile - I do not have time - and it is the new radar, AESA, which you have analysed very well, as is the Chief of YEA Mr Blumis. There is also a third, which Mr Velopoulos has told you again as a proposal, Mr Ministers, to take this into account. That's the nuclear warheads. We must focus, by wanting or not, on the fact that both Turkey and Bulgaria will soon be nuclear powers. So we, with the Rafahs, can be ready. You have been told by Mr. Velopoulos about the upgrade that the Rafalis may have. You have to. You will allow them to transfer nuclear warheads. I think, Minister, that the next step must be that. This will also be Greece's response to Turkey's nuclear development. What else do we have to do, Minister, for not doing so yet? It has not been planned - the President told you a little while ago - the defence aid clause with France. Now, the omission is that option. It's one of two. At some point you need to answer us and we want you to go ahead with this, as Karamanlis did - Mr Velopoulos said earlier - which he had agreed with the French for the Mirages. We're talking about defence cooperation. We have to do this. What else do we have to do, Ministers, to take steps forward? We need to make an upgrade. I know that you and the Ministry are hurting for this, but you have to have when you have this portfolio, have your signature underneath that LEVO and ELVO have been upgraded and operated again, because if we had an upgraded LEV right now, we could also have compensatory benefits. Right now we can't, because we're naked. What can we make? We don't even make fibers. Are we going to fix the Ruffalo? You can't do that. So your mind needs to be on upgrade, because there will also be jobs and everything well. Let's go down. I close by referring to Greek citizens too, because much is said about the money that is being wasted. In particular, the most left parties often mention it. Greek citizens should not be saddened that we are currently spending money on a bankrupt country for our country's defence. Oh, no! We must be proud, because this must happen, because, unfortunately, we have the wish and the curse to be at a geopolitical, geographical point, which we have many restless neighbours. But what can we do? Now - and I close with this - it leaves your hands, Mr Ministers, and we go to the Government of New Democracy, Mr Brutsi, which you are presently representing here as a parliamentary representative. We have money that we can put together and give to the hungry world in the world that has no business to keep its shops closed. There's a lot of money with three, four simple moves. See you and we keep yelling. So go ahead and rethink as a Greek Parliament the matter with the independent authorities. You say, "But, what's this inconvenience?" It's not a mess. It's money. It is EUR 600 million a year for independent authorities that can be given to farmers, fishermen, private individuals. It's the Greek people's money. Why should we pay EUR 600 million a year there? Regarding the payments of NOVARTIS, we are proud that on that day we left the Chamber, because we told you that the court and justice must say who is responsible or not. We want the money back, the 3 billion euros, the money of the Greek people. The EUR 3 billion for NOVARTIS is the Rafah, Minister. Where's the money? And now you're saying you're going to come after them! I wish! Six months ago, we said that. What else? Here's Mr. Villard. His tongue has been haired for the 'diselgate' scandal. She wakes up with "diselgate", sleeps with "diselgate". Why is Greece the only country that does not claim this money? VOLKSWAGEN has paid EUR 30 billion to beneficiaries all over the world. Approximately EUR 100 million is to take the state. It's the Greek people's money. Why not claim them, give them to the unemployed, to the pensioners, to the fishermen, to the traders, to the private? It's our money. That is what we must do at the same time as strengthening our Armed Forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Heta. The Parliamentary Representative from the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, is called at Step. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Allow me, before I begin my position, to express my dismay at yesterday's unprecedented incident unfolded at a metro station, where an official, because he simply did his job and the recommendation to apply public health rules, accepted a cruiser attack and beating. I hope the man is well in his health. Unfortunately, the reflexes of the attendees were not as increased as they should have been to support and rescue him. I want to believe that we will not see such incidents in a year characterised by many challenges and too many fronts. First, obviously, it is the health front, with the pandemic cost thousands of human lives and continue to change our everyday lives now, and certainly in the future. The pandemic has highlighted the unique and irreplaceable role of the public health system, which has been the only refuge for all citizens living in our country. This well-documented finding, in addition to moral rewards and public reports, must finally be accompanied by the practical support for people who serve the National Health System, as well as the support of the National Health System itself. We, gentlemen of the government, have made numerous proposals. We want to believe that the government will at some point adopt them, not because we say so, but because I think there is no one in and out of this Ethiopia that disagrees with that. The reassurance of the government, insufficient preparation and incomplete staffing of the ESS and, in particular, intensive treatment units ahead of the second wave have come to the forefront of the triumphant announcements on the vaccination coverage of a large part of the country's population in quite a short time. And despite the fact that the slow flow of vaccinations is not only a Greek symptom, but an unpleasant reality for almost all the countries of the European Union, within the country we heard from the most official governmental lips for objectives that were clearly impotent, but obviously served the communication strategy of complacentness and the response of the situation. This strategy, ladies and gentlemen of the Partnership, must be stopped. Citizens demand that the government ensure mass vaccinations within a short period of time so that public health and human life itself can be effectively shielded. And, obviously, he cannot tolerate hearing about eight thousand vaccinations a day or a million seven hundred doses of vaccines to be administered by the end of March - that is, twenty thousand vaccinations a day - when four thousand vaccinations were carried out on Sunday, for example, and on Monday, which was working, five thousand three hundred fifty. You do not incorporate primary health care in vaccination centres, as Mrs Gennamas has repeatedly suggested, and today she has made a public appeal to you to extend the vaccination network so that we can achieve a genuine national objective. Ladies and gentlemen, as important as the health front is the front of the economy, with rapid consequences that make it the first half of 2021, perhaps the most difficult from 2010 until today. I wish I could be disobeyed, but I'm afraid we haven't seen anything yet. Here too, the government continues its repeated announcements, insufficient liquidity tools, incomplete relief measures from the burdens of the past, but also the absence of any strategy to support small and medium-sized entrepreneurship which is demonstrated by the great patient of the financial consequences of the coronary. The government itself who said a month ago that we have enough ammunition to support the affected economy, because of the ongoing lockdown, is the same government that yesterday recommended - suggesting that the infectious people open up the market, otherwise there is no return to the Greek economy? Why did he find that the payback in January and special-purpose allowances in January and February absorb 90% of the 3 billion cushion, which the government has planned for all 2021 and is only consumed in the first two months? Is this the credibility of a government that spoke a month ago about growth of 4.8%, when Mr Stournaras himself said at the end of December that it is a difficult target to achieve 4.2% in 2021 and we will have a recession in the first quarter? At the same time as all of this is done, the government appears unable to secure the required liquidity in the economy and Greek businesses, since the banks placed just EUR 5.5 billion on the market from the EUR 57.5 billion extra liquidity they had in 2020. In fact, 5.5 billion euros were guaranteed by the Greek State. Thirty thousand companies from the eight hundred and thirty thousand active business VDU have a credit rating, according to the strict criteria adopted by the banks and of course the government has accepted, while the loan rate for an average Greek company in November is 6% much higher than the average European interest rate. Private debt exceeds EUR 240 billion. Of course, SYRIZA has made a decisive contribution to the increase with the over-taxation of four years of governance, at the same time as the new bankrupt has received a small extension, but it threatens thousands of businesses and residents of professionals and debtors who must not forget that they come from a ten-year crisis. The state shows a lack of revenues of 14 billion euros and the proposal of the Change Movement for a hundred and twenty-dollar long-term arrangement for all debts and a 30% cut in the total debt for those who are consistent today seem a one-way path so that together with a generous returnee of at least 5.5 billion euros and in 2021, perhaps, the last chance, to traders and professionals, will stand up to the coming market opening. And they deserve it and they deserve it! Health and economics are the two most important pillars for maintaining social cohesion, which is tested and tested more strongly in the next time all aspects of the crisis will evolve. The third important front is that of national issues. After a decade of methodological blows by Mr Erdogan, with a visible review strategy by the neighbouring country and Turkish aggression to escalate over the last one and a half years, with a Turkish-libian memorandum, with the "ORUC REIS" on the national territorial waters limits. And since you are here and you, Minister and you, Mr Stefani, please very much inform Mr Gerapetiti that in July 2020 the entire Hellenic Navy defended the territorial integrity of the country far beyond the twelve nautical miles and not the six nautical miles that the Minister of State has unfortunately and publicly defined as a red line of the country. Please inform him very much so that he doesn't expose your country first and foremost. So, having seen all this, it was imperative that our country's defensive armour should be defended, overcoming the inconvenience of the political system for the need for new armaments. On this, obviously, the discomfortful attitude of the European Union, which refuses to take a clear position, when it is called upon to defend the rights of its members, despite repeated declarations of solidarity and safeguarding European borders, such as the borders of both Greece and Cyprus. Ladies and gentlemen, this year we celebrate the two hundred years since the revolution of 1821, always bearing in mind that Greece is a strength of stability and security in the wider region. It is a country that respects international law, prefers the language of diplomacy and acts as a force of deterrent power, whenever it is provoked. The ambiguity of the government's attitude to sanctions in Turkey feeds up the corresponding attitude of the European partners. A characteristic example is the removal from the decisions of the last Summit of October's positive wording to limit the research agenda only to delimiting maritime zones, without, of course, implying that this would be accepted by Turkey. But even this did not remain in the text of the decisions and it is neither accidental nor inconsistent with what I have just said, the fact that a few days before the start of dialogue Turkey is again trying to strengthen the climate by raising the agenda for discussions. We are therefore leading to a process which is more like an attempt to comply with European suggestions than an effort to strongly defend our sovereign rights against Turkey's unscrupulous claims. A dialog, however, with a violation of sovereign rights is not meant, as Andrew Lovertos rightly noted three days ago. In any case, dialogue and international law were and remain our country's priority in an area of troubled, intensified and destabilised often. However, any dialogue must take precedence over our deterrent power, through long-term planning and not under time and not just pressure. It is a position that we consistently supported and supported as a Movement of Change, with a sense of national and patriotic responsibility, both a year ago, when in the 2020 budget debate we disagreed with the reduction of defence expenditure and a move of the highest political symbolism we voted against the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, but this year when we voted to increase the budget of armaments by transparent and rapid procedures, asking for aid for the defence industry and now, as Vassilis Kegeroglou clearly stated, which we are voting for, by expressing - and copying the so-called words of the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group - a strong 'yes' to the need to supply aircraft, a national interest in strengthening our defence. And this, despite our objections on the one hand bypassing the institutional process of L.3879/2011 - which I am passing away, I had the honour of introducing, just ten years ago, as a PASOK MEP, Prime Minister George Papandreou and Minister of Defence Evangelos Venizelos - and our objections concerning the absence of synergy with the national defence industry in both production and maintenance, but also the lack of forecasts for industrial returns, an overall process that would stimulate defence industry and contribute decisively to its resolution. I can only congratulate the Prime Minister - and we are talking about the resolution of the defence industry - on the step taken by the PPC that there will be a reliable investor for the Scaramaga shipyards, where, unfortunately, the process has been brought to an unprecedented fiasco and the government has lost any trace of credibility in relation to the promises and actions made. At this critical national juncture it would be reasonable and a similar attitude from the other parties, because the micro-party game of inconsistency in the country's critical diplomatic and defence choices must end, as should the logic of the temporary benefit of counterpopulation from possible government failures on national issues. Because both are harmful to the country, to the nation and to the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement as a patriotic movement, and above all, having a sense of its historical responsibility, supports the efforts of the Armed Forces and the multiplier of defence power that is no other than his or her spiritual potential, men and women, that is, the Armed Forces that ensure our national sovereignty and territorial integrity. We will not choose this area, to show the increased opposition reflexes that the government's ineffective policy in the critical areas of health and economics, a policy that bolsters social cohesion and undermines the future of the new generation. And the Change Movement will soon become a protagonist of developments, of course - progressive speech with proposals - of course - realistic, solutions that respond to the suffocating problems of citizens, especially those who feel marginalised. We do not have the role of either sympathetic or complementary, but a role that defines and does not follow developments, as progress always opens new paths for society. This role is appropriate in the history of PASOK. That is what we have to serve for our homeland, for our citizens, for the new generation and for the prospect of this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, too. The reason is the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Alkiviadis Stefanis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, Minister for National Defence, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by saying good year, many years, with health, creativity and optimism for our country. Day of joy, celebration and optimism for the Armed Forces today. The supply of the eighteen Rafah aircraft is a key point in a broad, coordinated, interoperable strategic effort of Armed Forces equipment. Since the first time the Government took up its duties in July 2019, the leadership of the Ministry of National Defence has diagnosed and prioritised, following a thorough analysis of the operational requirements, the coverage of which was a necessary condition to maintain and increase the integrity of the Armed Forces. Directly, 10 days later, on 17 July 2019, the Prime Minister was informed, under the approval of which the possible ways of energy were investigated and were undertaken following an assessment of targeted best practices for the holistic response of the needs of all three branches for the first time in decades. The proposals that emerged were a product not of a fragmented approach to the issue, but of a coordinated strategic effort fully integrated into the philosophy and predictions of the new 2021-2035 force structure, the approval of which is the subject of the CSCE approval. I would like here to say that three actions have been taken in this context: the first action concerns the acquisition of weapon systems, the second one at the entry of personnel to the Armed Forces and the third at the reforms we have implemented at the Ministry of National Defence. Concerted strategic actions have been taken so that the three branches are developed balancedly and at the same time to find the relevant staff at five different levels, officials from the military schools of officers and officers, soldiers, either professionals or short-sighted professionals, an examination of the balance of office in the Drought Army in relation to the Naval and Air Force, the turnout of civilian personnel, and of course the regulation of all the issues of the subordinates that are currently large either internally or externally. The project was undoubtedly demanding and the increased provocative Turkish activity in Evros and the Aegean Sea, the current unfavourable economic situation and the finite financial resources made its implementation more complex. We all know that the reorganisation of an organisation facing marginal challenges is difficult. Nevertheless, the Ministry of National Defence managed to respond successfully to the invitation and challenge. The vote today of the draft law on the supply of aircraft constitutes only one action of a number of multi-dimensional actions, as I said before, which will lead the Armed Forces to a new era and will ensure that they can be uninterrupted with the mission assigned to them by the country by further developing both the moral and the pride of the personnel and by strengthening the confidence of the Greek people towards them. At the same time, however, by upgrading its military power Greece is emphaticly establishing its status as a country - a pillar of peace and security in the region. Day of joy, celebration and satisfaction today, because we are taking a step of optimism, strength, efficiency and a high symbolism of action, one of the many things that are done and done. We are particularly pleased to note the political consensus of almost all of the political world. Acknowledging all proudly the offer of the Armed Forces We lead them in the future for a secure, strong, effective, optimistic and full of light Greece. I would also like to address with great respect the Communist Party of Greece and the Mera25, whose representatives for their own reasons, as they have developed, voted against the draft law. I would like to say the following: 2020 was a year that showed in the most emphatic way that the operation of the Armed Forces in support of the Greek area has only implemented national plans. It is something both parties have developed in particular. The development, redeployment, promotion, design were clean to serve national plans and our Armed Forces worked in a way amazing and the Greek people were proud of the Armed Forces and the political world had a pool of congratulating the Armed Forces and within the political world both parties were yours. This is a contradiction here too. On the one hand, congratulate the Armed Forces for their excellent work and on the other, refuse to be equipped to lead them to the future. It is a contradiction, it is a matter that concerns us, because we would like at this difficult time to be with us, because it is a start of a year of emphaticity, a year that will actually lead us to the future of a year that we all assemble together to make the leap towards tomorrow. And we would like - I say again - to understand that, of course, the Armed Forces are also implementing national plans, of course, the Armed Forces are supporting the Greek people in all its actions, and especially in 2020, we have all seen the specific functions of the Armed Forces whether they are called a health crisis, whether they are called aerospaces or any other action of everyday life - there your support, so that the Armed Forces are properly equipped to lead to the future. Today's meeting was awaited by the Armed Forces' staff with great pleasure, because it creates the conditions for us to go to the future. It is awaited and awaited by the Greek people who evaluates us and certainly awaits our geopolitical environment, which they see, analyses and all understand that the Government is responsible and effective to lead Greece in the future, leading Greece to progress and prosperity with the Armed Forces as a strong basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u96	Mr Minister, thank you very much and especially for keeping time. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Stefani, we don't have them with the Armed Forces, otherwise. And in advance, I'm telling you ours are in front of the line. We are dealing with the policies of the governments. And many executives, too much, beyond and outside political beliefs, listen very well to us. And I will answer with arguments why we say 'no'. The 'no' is not about defending the sovereignty of our country's borders. And we've proved it, Mr. Brutsi, and I'll tell you later. So what do you think? The government, SYRIZA, KINAL say that with the purchase of twelve used and six new Rhafa aircraft the connection between Greece and Turkey is changing. What is it, Mr Lazarides? It is the threat, as you said, from the east. We call on the people and particularly the members of the Armed Forces not to be lured from the great patriotic 'currants' - in introductory or out-of-importation, if you like - but to judge objectively, calmly, on the basis of the experience they have in so many years. And I say again even more to the members of the Armed Forces, who have specific experience of them, to judge with them and with the very reality. We're going to ask the first question. Greece belongs to NATO. You're supposed to belong - so you say - to an alliance. What for? So you say that it guarantees the safety of our country. Isn't that what you're saying? We say this is a myth. Greece belongs to NATO, not because it defends the interests of the Greek and other peoples, but because NATO is the iron heel, the guarantor of those who possess wealth. These interests are defending throughout the world. He's a protector of those who own what all the rest of mankind own, and they're not more than 10% of them. This is NATO politically. It defends, in other words, the capitalist system and those of the peoples who have tried to raise or raise their heads or, anyway, to diversify themselves from their plans. Blood of all humanity. The map is full of blood. A characteristic example is our own region. One hundred and twenty more interventions have been made by NATO in its history. And speaking of our region: Listen here, you cannot mock the world, Assad is a dictator, while Saudi blackness is an ally. Yes or no? Isn't that right, Mr. Panayotopoulos? So tell us, is the darkening state in the Arab countries an ally and democracy, while Syria is not? Isn't that right? That's right. Gaddafi, you had him a god, and he just changed their oil contracts, made NATO a mess with murders, bombings, all of this. Is that the truth or not? That truth we call for the Greek people and the Armed Forces to think. Secondly, you say: 'But we must belong somewhere.' That's a syndrome. Every people must belong to their country and every country must belong to their people. No need for prostates. And you say we have to belong because we have to be guaranteed security. I ask you: Who is threatening the security of Greece? Russia? Not that Russia is good. China? Who? Iran? Who's threatening her? Turkey. What is Turkey? He's an ally in NATO. And we are simply asking you and we are addressing the Greek people: what the hell an ally is that the ally threatens the ally and presents claims, revisions and all that is correct and I do not repeat them? What kind of alliance is that? Here's a partnership, if you're stolen or threatened by the partner, you're kicking him out or leaving the cooperative. Isn't that right? I am simply saying this - and not simply - to show the hypocrisy that exists and the contradiction of your own policy. We agree that the Turkish bourgeoisie is threatening, has claims and has all this. However, you may explain to a people that along with Turkey you are taking part in naval high school, along with Turkey tomorrow in wars and at the same time you say that it is our opponent. That's not standing. And that's what people need to think about. Third question: NATO and security. I ask you directly, Mr Panayotopoulos and gentlemen, all of you who are here and who are supporting NATO, why, really, NATO is not taking a clear stand against illegality - according to International Law, and so are - Turkey's claims? Why does Soltenberg and all these people's butchers never come out to say that Turkey has requirements outside international law and must be united? Why don't they make a move to prevent everything that happens every day in the Aegean Sea, where our pilots live with terror all the time? Why doesn't he do that? What kind of alliance is it that doesn't protect you according to International Law? He doesn't know where the NATO is? He doesn't know about international agreements? He doesn't know the Law of the Sea? He knows. But he writes it in the older shoes, not to say a heavy, popular conversation. Why doesn't he write it? Because he doesn't care. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I think we were the ones who spoke less. Another question: We are talking about equipment, because it relates to the bill, we are not just having a theoretical debate. So tell us now: What the hell alliance is it that powerful allies sell guns, the great ones in particular, to one and the other? What kind of armor are you telling us about? If tomorrow the Americans give the F-35s and find them with Turkey? Then let's go get us F-35. Isn't that right? What an alliance it is that our great allies - Italy, Spain, etc. - they prepare an airplane for Turkey, the 'ANADOLU', which is supposed to be contrary to Turkey's claims, but they never take any clear position on all of this. So let us go to the myth, in our opinion, of the Greek superpower with the Rafahs, for all of you, and especially for the Greek people and the members of the Armed Forces. 'ORUC REIS': We humiliated them, we say folk. I mean, we had submarines that were invisible, etc. etc. We agree. It's done. What happened next day? Six submarines, which Germany will give, and say what you want, whoever fights and do because Germany's financial interests and investment dominates in Turkey, are infinite. So they don't have alliance principles, they have economic interests as the other countries do. It'll probably take two F-14 and better than ours, more modern because the years have passed and for all that technology is running. So what hell allies are they, and what superpower will they ensure? The same will happen with the planes, I said before. Now let's learn a little from history. And we especially call on the officers of the Armed Forces who know more in detail. In 1974, with the invasion of Cyprus, we had a superpower, yes or no? We had Fantom and Turkey had T-30 which were ancient. The Fantomos were at the airports of Crete ready to take off and the landing would not take place. Why didn't they take off? Because the Americans didn't let go. It's clean. And that was confessed to people who are still alive and who were at that time. Another example, the Imias. I'm going to invoke something, but the years have passed. Were you in the business room, Nikos Papastasis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u98	No, I was...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u99	Were you watching? The Greek Navy was overarming and could at any time prevent anything in the Imia. What happened? The Americans said stop. In fact, Mr Simitis, Mr Katrin and Mr Kegeroglu, said: 'Thank you to the United States government', which has never taken a stand on the Immigration Claims.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u100	Do you remember who...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u101	Then, then. We are not in favour of war, otherwise. So I say that your arguments from life itself are rejected and not because they are said by the Communist Party of Greece. Another issue about equipment, because we don't talk in the air. Is there a one-way or not? Can Greece, apart from the exception of S -300 - which I do not want to say these, you know - take other weapon systems based on its own needs that do not "swipe" with NATO? It can't be. All the equipment goes through the bench, and the bench is called NATO. Why is it going through the bench? Because they must respond to the interests of the alliance, like the Rafahs and the upgrade of the F-16. Dimitris Koutsoubas said it too, and we've been through it many times. What does the Pentagon report say? Upgrade F-16 at VIPER level because they respond to the interests of the alliance in the Eastern Mediterranean. That was the recommendation to the Pentagon.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u102	Please, Mr. Paphie, complete why you're in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u103	Let me go, Mr. President. It's okay. Leave a different voice. We need to be haunted because we disagree rather than hear a number of koruna and things like that, as Mr Brutsis said earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u104	All the voices we hear, but in view of the fact that the Chief has spoken less time than planned, please in the twelve minutes to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u105	So I'm saying one more thing: Tell us, are we really the ones who say, to be clean? The Greek Army must have a mission, perfect. Defend the country's sovereign rights and entrances. And that's not a step back and not a step forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u106	With what guns, though?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u107	Wait, I'll see you about the guns. What weapons when you send to Norway two F-16? Have you asked the Greek people how much he pays? The flight is 10,000 an hour, plus the wages, plus the damage of the aircraft. What did the freshmen in Ormuz want? National interests defend? What did the fryer want - the PASOK or the New Democracy were then, I do not remember exactly - outside Libya? What national interests was he defending there? What interests does he defend in Mali? What interests does it defend in Afghanistan? And what interests does it defend in Iraq that military forces are being sent there? What for? When they're even valuable in this crisis? Why did you send the Patriot array to Saudi Arabia that the Greek people paid for while we were in a crisis? I don't want to say heavy talk because we don't use such things. But what are you doing? Do you reduce the Greek arsenal and send forces to Saudi Arabia for what, ladies and gentlemen of NATO, are you shouting? Who are the Patriots pointing at? Iran. Do we have a problem with Iran as a country? Is he threatening us? Oh, no. Why? Because you are integrated into the general planning, because those who possess the wealth of Greece want to get in and so they do and push and sometimes push and sometimes push in the turbulent actions just to take a piece of prey. Tell us how much the naval exercises cost. I'm asking you to come out and tell me what the script of naval exercises is. Who is the opponent of the common naval exercises? In Norway, who is it? Russia. Who's in the Black Sea? Russia. With Israel and the Americans who is it? The simulation of SYRIZA in Grevena, Mr. Tsipras, concerned areas in Iran that match our own. Is that a defence of national sovereignty and our country? That's why they're giving you such weapons that they're earned out. Because they count what Greece and the others have.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u108	Please, please, Mr. Palphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u109	I shall finish, Mr President. We are not going to agree and take political responsibility. We are, however, saying - something that you know very well from one another, from the government and from the other - that we do not haggle national independence either back and forth. Secondly, we do not accept that the blood of the Greek Armed Forces for Natali should be spilled, because this can happen. We do not accept all this and say, therefore, that this policy does not serve the interests of the Greek people or other peoples. We were told this morning, Mr. Brutsis and Mr. Varvitsiotis, that we will be judged by history. Listen, Mr. Brutsi: When you talk about history, beyond mistakes and weaknesses, you will not talk about us, because when the triple occupation in Greece came, your prolongation and the urban order of Greece left Egypt, apart from Greece, and we did the supervision of the National Resistance. When Greek interests were always judged, I mean the interests of the country, we were first and foremost in the front line, as we are today and always today. However, we will never accept the Greek people being sacrificed to serve the interests of the bourgeoisie. And with regard to the argument of the plutocrats, who have historically demonstrated that they have no home - and if you say it again, I will say names and addresses, I will say specific names that have been published - and they tell us that this is the world, I must tell you that they have always been in the history of humanity two - they were neither three, nor four - trends: those who have defended the barbarity of systems and those who know what the reality is, are struggling to overthrow it and change it. And you know, I'll repeat that storms and storms are propelled by sunshine. Where you're sure and where you think everything is going well and where you've abandoned even the ideas of changing society - because you're smiling - you know that it'll take off sooner or later. And when people come out to the fore, then that reality will be crushed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u110	There was a greater tolerance in time for Mr Pafile, in view of the fact that the Communist Party of Greece had not said a speaker from the second circle. So I ask you to understand. Mr Stefani has been asked for the floor for clarification. Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Pafile, I would like to follow your reasoning on pluralism and NATO and ask the following question: You have started your report by saying that you recognise that Greece has a threat and described it by name. So you in your balance, which on the one hand is the identified threat to Greece and on the other, your ideological philosophy in relation to NATO, put your view on NATO prevail. That worries me very much. Loveing, like you in the country - something that is given - and serving the Armed Forces for so many years, I am concerned about this. At a time when we agree on who is toward us, we should all take the rest into account for some important reason, especially this year. So I would ask you, with great respect, to rethink what you are going to do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u113	Mr Pafile, as you have seen, the Minister has said a few things with modesty and has not touched you. Just give an explanation, please. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u114	Mr Stefani, listen: I think you're smart as well, but you also understood what we said. If you want to talk about equipment, we're ready. I told you about a single. I have told you another time that you may be sent by the F-16 and instead of bombing Izmir - I say a random example and not to be taken otherwise - to go and bomb the White Mountains and Crete, because they hold the keys. I told you about the naval monomer that costs a great deal of money. We say, of course, the equipment is needed. No one can say that they don't need it, since we don't live in the society that we would like. But they could also be multi-dimensional, which you like the expression, so that you can in some cases - and they have done so, they did not send the planes, you know it in the CCT - that you also have reserves and you do not depend on him if he cuts off your spare parts and ammunition tomorrow because he has his own interests. And what we are saying is not unrealistic. They've accepted in history how things got back. Take the example of the Asia Minor Destruction how things got back. As soon as the English have secured their oil, we've been kicked.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u115	All right, Mr. Paphie, you were clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u116	So don't tell us that. We are making just such a policy that is of benefit to the Greek people. That is why we are opposed. Did you forget where he ended up so many years 7 to 10? We run after each other, and Turkey and Greece, for equipment, and the result of the road is that the war industries in the big naval countries will take the cup.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Pafile.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u119	Minister, I will give you the floor. However, I imagine you saw that the level was also decent and high. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u120	I have to make a comment on what you have said on one side, Mr Palhei. The country does not, if I may say so, have autonomy in defence of the industry. It is a wishful task to acquire autonomy and balance. However, in the context of this monopoly, it has American aircraft, Italian transport aircraft, French ships...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u121	I mean, natoons!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u122	..................................................................................................................................................................... 'EM', British ships...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u123	I mean, natoons!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u124	...modern rockets, German tanks...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u125	I mean, natoons!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u126	...German submarines, Israeli unmanned vehicles, possibly other weapon systems from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u127	I mean, natoons!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u128	It's not about having weapons alone, but just as long as we don't have Russians. But in this respect, I would remind you that it also has some Russian weapons systems, missiles, such as TOR - M1, OSA, S -300 in the state they are. Only for one's own sake can one blame the Greek defence programme. Perhaps for a few years, yes, during the oligopoly - a monopoly, but certainly not for one-sidedness. There's quite a variety. And can I tell you something else? There is also the theory of defence equipment that says that the more variety there is, the worse it is for the efficiency and functionality of these systems for reasons of lack of uniformity. But I think it is too much to talk about monotony, as far as Greece's equipment is concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u131	Please, Mr. Pafile. You've spoken enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u132	Listen to me! It's a loneliness! It's all natotal except for a short break. The question is this: when NATO decides at some stage - and now I will say cynically - to keep Turkey, why does it also have a geostrategic position, with all the instruments, what will happen in one case of conflict? With what spare parts, with what weapons and anything else, when they say no more, back up, or I give you nothing? That's what we're talking And with regard to the Defence Industry, Minister, with all due respect, the hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. Our language has been softened to talk for many years about the development of the country's Defence Industry. We don't say we're going to make Raphah or Sukhoi or F-35. But we say we can meet basic needs. Why can't that be? Firstly, it is a policy of the governments and especially the European Union, which, by means of a directive that we have voted on, wants to be subcontracted. We don't even make bullets! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u133	All right, Mr. Paphie, that's enough. Fortunately with the calm moves made by the Greek Government there is no risk of crashing. We are therefore entering the second circle of speakers. In order to organise the debate, two Members will now speak, Mr Stefanos Gikas of New Democracy and Mr Katrugalos - if he does not come, we will go to the next - and then Mr Villardos. Mr Manolakos will then speak from New Democracy and Mr Frangidis from the Change Movement and the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, if he wants to do so at that time or shortly afterwards. Mr Gikas Stefanos has the floor from New Democracy for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I wish all my fellow Members a good year with good health and strength. Coming now to the bill of the Ministry of National Defence, which we are discussing today, I stress that it is of particular importance for many reasons. Initially, Turkey's provocative and dangerous attitude last year makes it imperative to increase the operational capacity and deterrent power of our Armed Forces. At the same time, this is the first time that our country has been making such a great, but at the same time complete supply, as the eighteen fighter aircraft of a fate are provided for, and for the supply of advanced aircraft weapons, the headed missiles, that is to say, the subsequent support of aircraft and weapons for a number of years, four more. It is worth noting that the Raphas belong to the category of the most modern aircraft and are among the aircraft of the after-fourth generation, as it is said. They are multi-player aircraft, have state-of-the-art and advanced systems and weapons, as well as the ultimate self-protecting systems. They are therefore ideal to deal with sophisticated defence and technological opponents, giving a tactical and strategic advantage. I would like to say that these conventions will remain in history, because it is the result of tough negotiations that have only been held four months ago. There was a criticism from the Opposition. (...It didn't sound because of a problem in connection.) However, the contract could not take another form, since the delivery of aircraft is also inconsistent. Already until July this year, the first batch of aircraft will fly to the Greek skies, with all that that implies. It should be mentioned - and it is worth stressing this - that the latest major supply for the Air Force took place in 2005, again by a government of the New Democracy, on the part of the Cave of Spiliotopoulos. Then our country proceeded with the fully documented procurement of US F-16 Block 52+ aircraft, which still constituted and constitute the head of our Air Force. Fifteen years later, the New Democracy Government again comes to strengthen our Air Force fleet, starting last year with the upgrading of F-16 aircraft to Viper and continuing today with the purchase of eighteen Raphalis and their weapons. The government, ladies and gentlemen, does not act fragmentary or roughly. Action on the basis of an integrated plan for the field of national defence and the implementation of armaments programmes. The fact was also reflected in the new forces structure of the Armed Forces 2020 to 2034, which was recently adopted by the competent committee of Parliament. There is an integrated and prioritized plan with over 50 equipment projects, which will be implemented over the next few years, while several projects are being launched this year. Let me point out that this policy of the Government is, among other things, a personal right for all of us, which we have stressed for many years on the public ground the need to increase the budget of the Armed Forces and especially armaments expenditure. This corrects a mistake in the political system, which for ten years has not gone as the Armed Forces Armed Forces armaments programme should. We are therefore delighted and optimistic that this government, Mr Mitsotakis, is fully aware of this need and is taking important steps, such as the quadrupling of armaments expenditure in this year's budget and in the coming years and, of course, the implementation and planning of serious armaments programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, by investing in defence, by strengthening and increasing the deterrent capacity of the Greek Armed Forces, the country's negotiating power is being strengthened, while at the same time ensuring peace and stability, necessary elements, components and conditions for the recovery, development and prosperity of the country. For all these reasons, I call on all parties today to support this bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much for keeping time, Mr. Gika. Mr. Katrugalos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wish first to you, to all colleagues, to all Greeks a good year, better than last year. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an unbroken unity of strategic and tactical choices in national defence and foreign policy, and the government's lack of strategy already has consequences in both areas. The failure of Mr Mitsotakis to ensure strong sanctions against Turkey complements his weakness - attention! his own personal weakness and inability, not our Armed Forces - to prevent the unprecedented violation of the sovereign rights on our continent. This lack of strategy is unfortunately also the case for defence planning. It seemed in the most fascinating way, in the unprecedented parliamentary procedure, which was condemned in committee, not only by the chairman of the Committee on Military Programmes, but also by Mrs Bakoyannis, in terms of the cumulation of two critical bills that we were called upon to vote on in five days. This gap runs counter to the planning of our own government, the SYRIZA government, which mainly had the following characteristics. Firstly, priority in the maintenance and modernisation of existing weapons systems. For the first time in the memoranda, we have made a significant investment in strengthening the Armed Forces' Integrity, by upgrading the F-16 to the Viper type, the most advanced F-16 across Europe and in cooperation with the ODA. I note the great importance of developing a national defence industry, confronting our own delays with the example of Turkey, which already covers two thirds of its military supplies. Secondly, the main feature of the strengthening of the Armed Forces' dignity is that this has been done in the context of a specific 15-year planning, as foreseen in the existing institutional legislation, with emphasis and priority on strengthening the Hellenic Navy, with modern wells, with large-scale air defence capabilities in open seas. Because that is where Turkey's recent threat to the Eastern Mediterranean is said. For this reason, following the suggestions of the physical leadership of the Armed Forces, we had reached the French "BELHARRA", the most modern digital ships, currently available on the market, with the most advanced hulls, with high-voltage antiaircraft. BELHARRA covers an air space, the so-called bubble, as many as four American freshmen MMSC of the 'LOCKHEED', which I hear is currently being discussed by the government. Such ships we need to face the next two challenges on the side of our eastern neighbour. On the contrary, your policy is characterised by reversed priorityisation, contradictions in the planning, weakening and diplomatic relations between the country and unjustified relics in the case of the supply of French wells. Undoubtedly, even your announcements, you are undoubtedly announcing great expenditure, such as the scandalous agreement of 1.2 billion on the training programme for pilots in Kalamata, which we are negotiating with half the money. That is why you have forced us to vote'representations' on the relevant budget expenditure. However, despite the gaps and contradictions, despite the great problems of the Convention, which the rapporteur and our other speakers have raised, the divergences from the fixed legislation, which many of you have voted for and which you now cover with special, derogating regulations, we, as a patriotic responsibility force, will vote in favour of this bill, taking into account all the parameters, first the necessary strengthening of the integrity of the armed forces, obviously taking into account the other needs of the country, after the grief of the memoranda and pandemics. We also take into account the need not to launch a new, unscrupulous armaments race and to acquire parties and mediators. However, the Rafahs are useful for Greek defence, they contribute to the necessary modernisation of our air fleet, after almost two decades of empty supplies. To answer, now, a criticism I hear, in good faith, from Mera 25, is not superficialism in a armaments race with Turkey. It's not a fifth generation aircraft. Between the fourth and the fifth generation are the Rafahs. Much more economical than F35. I would remind you that Turkey has shown interest in a hundred similar aircraft, participated in their production programme and if the US sanctions had not taken place, it would already have received the first of eight of them. Therefore, we do not want the superpower, the balance of power, we are constantly pursuing this provision. That is why we are voting in favour. But, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mr Minister, do not take our responsibility as a white cheque. We will continue to denounce omissions and responsibilities that exist for the double empty strategy, defence and foreign policy. We will continue to invite you to fill this gap and finally to form a national strategy and a national front, starting with the convening of the Political Heads of State. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u137	Thank you too, Mr. Catrugale, for keeping time. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliou Villardos has the floor. And to you time, Mr. Villardo, it will be six minutes, but because the Chief has spoken there will be tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much for the timely tolerance, Mr President. After all, so much has been said. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the establishment of the Greek Solution and its entry into the Parliament was and is to offer the country, in other words to act constructively, without the usual void opposition, which is heard by most parties and which serves only their own self-interests. In this context and in view of today's agreement, we want to stress that we are really very concerned about Greece, about the extremely unfavourable developments in the last period, including the economy and the national economy. In this regard, whether we like it or not, nationals, as well as many others, are directly dependent on the economy, as in the example of today's armament programme. Our economy, however, runs from bad to worse, reminding the huge 2020 deficit, which is about 20 billion euros, a deficit that, combined with the unprecedented fall in our GDP by 11%, at 162 billion euros, has put off the general government debt to 208% and central to the terrifying real 227% of GDP. As far as 2021 is concerned, there does not seem to be any significant improvement, let alone when Covid continues to develop with its mutations, the results of the vaccines are controversial and we do not know them and even trade remains locked. Our economy is impossible to rely again on the 24 billion granted in 2020, without however avoiding a recession of -11%. This is a huge recession, there has never been such a deep recession in Greece, not even in 2011, in the worst memorial period. Greece will therefore continue to need new borrowings, as the government does not manage the economy, for which Germany actually decides, because if it did not allow our bonds to be purchased from the European Central Bank and the support of our banks, we would not be able to borrow a single euro. Germany, however, is, on the one hand, an ally of Turkey - it has always been and I do not need to remind anyone of history - on the other hand, it never gives anything in return. I would remind you: firstly, the PSI, launched in respect of the mortgage of our public property and, secondly, the suspension of the payment of 95 billion, which expired, for after 2032, in exchange for the delivery of the name of Macedonia. It will therefore ask, if it has not already done so, for new exchanges, where we very much fear that it will be national sovereignty on the basis of the opening of negotiations with Turkey. It may now allow us - in fact it has allowed us - to give France the 2.5 billion, but simply because she has more objectives, but understanding that France must also take something. The Prime Minister now claims that he will not compromise with anything that would be contrary to Greece's interests and on the basis of international law the true concept of which the President of Parliament explained very well. So on the basis of international law, as the President of Parliament explained. Unfortunately, we do not believe him, among other things, because he starts negotiations at the worst possible time for Greece. To say this very simply, if Germany threatens him by stopping the lending of Greece and supporting its banks, what will it do? Who will lend us, with our economy in Nadir, with our huge twin deficits, with our brutal public debt and the even scary red private debt, with the thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, who managed to save themselves from the pillow of memoranda on the brink of bankruptcy, because of the policy of the one-sided locks in our economy, without any plan? That is why we have criticised the government' s economic policy, which should be much more prudent, and we consider that one of the greatest mistakes of all the Memorandum governments is that they have accepted the reduction of our military expenditure. We are reminded here that when the IMF imposed a memorandum on Turkey in 2001, all military expenditure had been excluded, and we literally zeroed the costs for our military equipment, so today we are unable to protect our territorial integrity properly. In order to substantiate this, we will present in the minutes a table with the defensive expenditure of Greece from 1990 to 2019, as well as another comparison of Greek expenditure with Turkish. As you can see, while it was about equal in 1990, Turkey's spending is more than four times as high. Moreover, these defensive costs include wages, pensions, operating expenses and equipment. The equipment, however, in the case of Greece - only armaments - amounted to 12.3% of total expenditure recently in 2019, while in Turkey 38.6%. This is a huge, really, difference. All this does not mean, of course, that there are no solutions, since Greece continues to be a rich country with an important geopolitical position and with too many possibilities. It is enough, of course, for a competent government at some point to be able to manage the economy properly and be able to demand what belongs to us. I am briefly referring to the military corrections, at least the mortgage loan, the allowances from NoVARTIS, Dieselgate and so many others. However, planning, proper planning and rational decision-making are needed, not like today's urgent procedure once again. Once again, then, the government decided with the pistol on the head to launch a large market in armament, while of course the cost of supply is proportional to the pressure of time. Unfortunately, not only this government but also all the previous ones made the decisions under pressure at the last minute, in any case without strategic planning and without taking into account all the operational parameters in at least decades, without taking into account all the operational data and defence equipment of the neighbouring country. So we hope at some point that our country's political leaderships will understand the seriousness of defence armaments with a view to the national interest and the strengthening of the Greek defence industry. This industry, which should also have an export orientation, is absolutely essential, since the least possible dependence on Greece from foreign countries can be achieved in this way, and it will also help to develop our economy. We must note here that, even today, our state defence industries are employing about three and a half thousand workers, and they can easily increase by two and a half thousand with a relatively small re-activity. In conclusion, we will be voting in favour of the draft convention because it ensures the national interest, of course, with the reservations we have expressed on the details of the convention, since the need to supply new fourth generation fighter aircraft is at this juncture a major issue and gives us a substantial aviation leadership in the Aegean Sea towards Turkey. However, the question of France's defence aid remains open to us, as well as the requirement, which we should at least have expressed, of compensatory benefits for strengthening the domestic industry. Finally, we must understand that we can achieve a great deal, since we have all the preconditions. As long as we work seriously and properly. Our aim must be to regain our national sovereignty, internal and external security, as well as to raise the standard of living of all Greeks, who certainly deserve - we deserve it! - Something much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. Mr Nikolaos Manolakos from New Democracy has the floor, and then Mr. George Frangidis from the Change Movement will be prepared. Mr. Manolak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after many years a bill on strengthening the Armed Forces of our country has been coming and debated in plenary. The years passed were marked by an unprecedented economic crisis, which has been an excuse for all governments since 2009, in order not to respond to the agonizing demands of the military leadership aimed at maintaining the existing capacity of the Armed Forces, even though the threat was present and visible to everyone. If, at the juncture of the crisis, SYRIZA's ideas are added, on the one hand, and the problematic procurement law that causes and appalling issues, on the other, we understand why the Armed Forces were squeezing and their staff were forced to make the need for esteem to maintain their operational readiness. However, the proof that the economic crisis was an excuse is the three conventions that we are debating today, which are in the best way, I would say, the problem of the renewal of the Air Force fleet. I wonder what the New Democracy Government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis broke into and decided to strengthen the Armed Forces? Has anything dramatically changed in our economy beyond stability and the prospect that our government has added? Oh, no. On the contrary, I would say, the state is financially pushed in its efforts to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. The answer is that our government realised the scale of the threat and prioritised its priorities. The integrity of our country and our sovereign rights is threatened. What do some people don't understand? We're delivering half the Aegean to the Turks? Are we going to let our islands be wiped out? Do we have the right to allow our country to be mutilated? And in what other way can the deterrence be achieved? With blessings and exorcisms? No, of course not. With the aid of the Armed Forces alone, which - I stress this - help with the effectiveness of diplomacy. Ladies and gentlemen, there are some who claim that our government has delayed us and I wonder how they came to this conclusion. To reach today's debate, beyond the political will, consultations, contacts, coordination and negotiations were needed. And everyone who knows the procedures understands what I mean. So populism and opposition must be left. These contracts with the selection of the top today and tested warplane with missiles, but also with the maintenance provision, will give us a regular advantage over any opponent, Very important this: supply of a weapon system and maintenance of it. It is an example of how our objectives are achieved, through good cooperation, the boldness and determination of the military and political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence, to whom they deserve great congratulations. But, Minister, let me say that the programming of aid to all three branches of the Armed Forces, as reflected in our planning, enables us, from now on, to pursue similar gains leading to the development of the domestic defence industry, which, under the responsibility of many in the past, has been totally devalued. And here I think we all agree. For today's contracts, which we are talking about, there is unfortunately no time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said so many times: there must be unity and unity in national affairs. Sadly, though, some have raised ideological strangles in political art, not to mention the impressions and messages emitted. They forget that everything is being examined, monitored and interpreted by opponents, friends and allies, and we must be particularly careful. In conclusion, Mr President, I welcome the determination and speed of the government and the officials of the Ministry of National Defence. We must bear in mind that it is very important that our defence industry moves backwards and that in this direction there is a splendid field of glory. Minister, we are now waiting for the Navy to take turns with the same determination and boldness. It's time to refresh! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u141	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. George Francis from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u142	First of all, I wish everyone a good year and a good year. The new year must be much better than the one he's been through. Ladies and gentlemen, defending our national interests is the core of our national survival and is based on our defence strength. The need to improve our fighting and defence capacity and security is not an end in itself but a national order, given the geographical and geopolitical position of our country and Turkey's growing provocativeness. Turkey insists on its consistently revised expansion policy, aiming at a debate on the whole matter with Greece. Europe, because of its economic interests and its members' ties with Turkey, has not managed to give a firm response to the provocativeness of Greece towards Greece. Within this framework, the need for armament support from the country becomes necessary. Last year, this need had not been understood to the government, which was put forward to the House and voted along with SYRIZA’s Census to reduce the budget for defence expenditure. The Change Movement did not vote for it then and was targeted. But very quickly, the government had to revise. In this year's budget, expenditure on armaments increased by 2 billion, which is why we voted. Today's bill is about the reinforcement of our country. Unfortunately, the New Democracy Government has brought it back to the House at the last minute. It contains three contracts relating to the supply of eighteen fighter-type Rafah, six new and twelve second-hand aircraft, the subsequent support of aircraft, the supply of aircraft weapons and their subsequent support and related services. Raphael supplies are of course important. It strengthens the deterrent and suppressive force of the Armed Forces and contributes to the country's defence armour. The Rafalis can change the balances in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean, since they will give an important advantage to the Air Force in the field of operations. Because of the extraordinary developments in our region in the last few years, the supply of new fighter aircraft is a good choice. Through the three conventions we will obtain a complete package of weapons, weapons and support. In other words, this is a single package from the outset. However, contracts have their weaknesses. There is nowhere to be said of industrial returns, production or maintenance, which would enable our defence industry, state and private, to be supported and restructured. The defence industry could also be involved in maintaining a third-degree, factory level, as is the case with all Air Force and EAA aircraft. It could also have been a longer period of support, such as, for example, more than four years, perhaps seven years. The main thing, however, is that any supply of weapon systems must result from a long-term plan, dictated by a national strategy, and not from an emergency like this. Prevention, ladies and gentlemen, is always better than treatment, and we doctors are used to saying it. The firm proposal of the Change Movement for the convening of the Council of Political Heads and drawing up a national strategy, unfortunately, was rejected by the SYRIZA Government before and rejected by the current Government of New Democracy. Thus, we now have to have legislation that circumvents the institutionalised procedures of L.3978/2011 for armaments programmes. It is precisely this bypass that requires maximum transparency and security of the public interest. We as a Movement of Change, conscious of the responsibility and the criticalness of our national conflict issues, will clearly vote on the bill. However, in view of the need to ensure transparency and the public interest, and in view of the social and development benefit of the country, we propose by means of an amendment of two things: firstly, the involvement of domestic defence industries in the implementation of contracts on security of supply of the Armed Forces and, secondly, the provision of information on a six-monthly basis of the Parliament's Committee on Equipment of the House by the Minister of National Defence on the progress of the implementation of contracts in specific meetings for this purpose. I have heard the Minister that he will in part accept the amendment on the second part. I think it would be a good thing if the amendment were accepted in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Francis. Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Theodoros Dritsas from SYRIZA. Mr. Nicolakopoulou, you can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I consider it an excellent honour for a Member, a member of the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs, to participate in two important decisions by the Greek Parliament, one of whom is the adoption of the draft conventions on Raphala. It is no coincidence that this decision comes almost at the same time as the peaceful expansion of our maritime zones into the twelve nautical miles, from Ionian to Cape Tinaro, which extends the limits of Greek sovereignty. And it is also important that these two decisions come in a contagious years, two hundred years after the establishment of the Greek state. The symbolism and the message is that our country always seeks peace and stability, the resolution of disputes through dialogue and always under international law and the Law of the Sea. This has also shown the great diplomatic effort that has been made over this period and the diplomatic successes achieved, such as the agreement with Italy and Egypt on demarcation of maritime zones, with Albania to refer our differences to the International Court of Justice and strategic cooperation with countries such as the United States, Israel and the United Arab Emirates. In response to the challenges and unilateral actions of Turkey, we respond with strong alliances and with a dialogue to resolve disputes based on international law. At the same time, however, we are moving towards strengthening our Armed Forces. As the Prime Minister said, it is the price we have to pay for our position on the map. Because it is our country's aim to be not only a pillar of strengthening and stability in the region, but also a strong force, a country with confidence and determination, with a strong deterrent to protect its sovereignty and its sovereign rights. And we proved this to Evros, where we protected our borders against a hybrid threat, and we see that today Turkey, after a series of challenges in the Southeast Mediterranean, has come to exploratory contacts with a predetermined agenda, while the ORUC REIS has departed from the Greek continent. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has so far made important decisions to strengthen our Armed Forces, such as the F-16 upgrading, but also the Miraz support contract. This strategy includes the provision of the eighteen modern French fighter aircraft that significantly strengthens the already powerful deterrent force and operational capacity of our Air Force. I want to dwell on the most important advantages of these conventions. The Rafah aircraft is an aircraft of multiple roles, multiple simultaneous missions and is the most modern and reliable European defence industry has the potential to carry out the special weapons already in place in the Greek arsenal without the need for new investments in infrastructure and techniques. The second is that we are dealing with an integrated full agreement, since it involves not only the acquisition of aircraft, but it includes the necessary arms and equipment and the necessary support. The third, particularly important element, is that this agreement is being implemented in a record time, taking into account how large and complex a piece of equipment it is and taking into account that other corresponding orders of weapon systems, even from the same manufacturer, have been executed several years later. In this way, our Air Force immediately acquires a dozen eighteen Ruffalo aircraft, replacing the old Miraz, along with the necessary weapons, equipment and support services. In fact, the first six aircraft will be delivered to our country as of July 2021 at a rate of one per month. And here we should congratulate the leadership of the Ministry of Defence and the Minister, as well as the leadership of the Armed Forces for the immediate implementation of the Prime Minister's announcement at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. Ladies and gentlemen, the invitation of the eighteen Rafah along with their advanced weapons is a complete armament program that directly changes the operational data for the Hellenic Air Force. Another important step is taking towards strengthening our deterrent ability to change and the association of forces in the region. Above all, however, it is another step towards the security of the country, but also towards peace and stability in the region, because Greece is and remains a force of peace and stability and in this environment the Government of the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis will shape conditions of growth and prosperity for our country and all Greeks. I am proud to invite you to vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u145	Thank you too, Mr Nikolakopoulou, for keeping time. Mr. Theodore Dritsas has the floor. There's a problem with Mr. Dragon's mic. Until it is restored, we move on to Mr. Liuta from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Liuta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. Happy birthday to everyone. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2021 we welcome parliamentarians with two very important draft laws of the utmost importance at foreign and defence policy level. Initially in the House, the historic expansion of the kayalitis zone in the Ionian Sea was tabled and discussed in the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs in the 12 nautical miles, a bill which comes directly to plenary. At the same time, today, we are talking before the National Representation about the agreement to supply the war aircraft Rafah. As a member of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, I felt twice as proud at the recent meeting of our committee, when, in a sense, almost political forces were in favour of extending the yacht of our zone to the Ionian region by twelve nautical miles, a decision that strengthens the national sovereignty of our country, which is increasing our country. It is also of great importance that the Rafahs supply contract we are discussing today is also of great importance. We supply eighteen last generation Raphall fighter aircraft along with their weapons, equipment and support services. For the historical expansion of the kayalitis zone in the Ionian Sea and for the provision of the Rafalis, warm congratulations to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Nikos Dendia, to the Minister of National Defence Nikos Panayotopoulos, to the leadership of our Armed Forces and above all to our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. In particular, on the Rafah provision agreement, the Minister of National Defence and the leadership of our Armed Forces and Air Forces have demonstrated efficiency, readiness and speed and led negotiations with courage and honesty. They stood to their great responsibility towards our country and the Greeks and worked hard to bring this agreement to our place. It is worth a great deal of congratulations to all those who worked on this effort. Our Air Force is being strengthened by a large and very important armament programme. It strengthens and increases its deterrent power, greatly strengthening our country's strategic advantage and geopolitically. The airspace of our country, the sky of Greece is shielded to the greatest. Ladies and gentlemen, last year, along with the horn pandemic, our homeland also had to face a geopolitical crisis in Evros and the eastern Aegean. The geopolitical challenges and tensions called on the Armed Forces as a whole and our country to face up to many and threatening, challenges and threats to which we have always been in favour of our sovereign rights. The geopolitical crisis was a fact that showed constant escalation and against which the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies operationally showed courage, strength and preparedness. At the same time, we moved with determination, designing and implementing a high standard equipment design, capable of ensuring at the highest level the integrity of our Armed Forces. Furthermore, our political leadership has moved with strength and responsibility towards history, the environment, the present and the future of our country, noting only victories. We have created important and strategic alliances, making Greek issues European and shielding our national positions against all absurd challenges and threats. The operational strengthening of the Armed Forces is a crucial pillar in a country's foreign policy and defence. The operational power, along with the political credibility and the ability of the government and above all our Prime Minister, as well as our great diplomatic power, make pillars that shield our country with the aim of always defending our national achievements, security and peace. Ladies and gentlemen, our homeland looks forward, through dialogue and respect for international law and the Law of the Sea, to the formation of conditions of good neighbourly and multilateral development, always defending its national sovereign rights. But at critical times and at geopolitical neighbourhoods where threats and challenges exist, operational empowerment becomes a crucial objective. I therefore welcome with all my powers the agreements reached. These are victories, which I am sure will continue in the future. After all, this is a belief expressed by the entire Greek society. The Greek society has seen and recognized the strength and capacity of our government and Prime Minister. He saw and recognizes the safety and the national benefit that the results of our own policy are. We continue with power and responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Is Mr. Dritsas ready to talk? As long as we're done, if you're in the House and you can't talk, come on. We're a few. Someone could come and talk. We're done. The world isn't lost. He can come if he's having a problem with his microphone. We'll move on to the list, and we'll wait for Mr. Dritsa. Mr Vassiliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to wish everyone a good and creative year, with health and prosperity. The wish "health" gained a new meaning and increased gravity. Let us hope in 2021 that this is the year of treatment so that we can all work together for the welfare of the country and its citizens. In addition to the pandemic crisis, Greece had to face the year that passed us and the new increased Turkish aggression. In any case, a complex geopolitical environment in which our country dominated Turkish reform, as expressed in practice by the Evros crisis and the work on the immigration issue, but also in the south-eastern Mediterranean through diplomatic initiatives and military actions. Greece was the first to become more experienced, which diagnosed that Turkish provocation unfortunately makes the neighbouring country a factor of destabilisation in the Mediterranean and Middle East. With admittedly slow but always progressively growing pace, our allies in the European Union and NATO are now aware of this new situation. As far as our country is concerned, the professionalism of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps has given the best response to both of these fronts, Evros and the Southeast Mediterranean. We are therefore called today on the Greek people to give the executives these tools which will enable them to respond effectively to the constant threats and we are called upon to do so transparently, serving the national interest and respecting the sacrifices that ensure the resources for this important expenditure. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion is in the right direction, with regard to the country's armaments needs, and it includes three draft conventions that are fair trading products and serve the national interest. The supply of French fighter aircraft of the Rafah type serves three purposes. Firstly, it covers the immediate needs of our air force for new modern fighter aircraft. This opens the way for at least forty new warships, as envisaged in the new power structure. Secondly, it is a pragmatic and resounding response to Turkish aggression of summer. After showing by all diplomatic means the illegal activities of Turkey, Greece is even more shielding its defence and increasing its deterrence towards the neighbour, whose government will have another reason to avoid a further escalation of tension in the future. Thirdly, it strengthens the traditional strong ties between Greece and the friend and ally France. Recent events have shown sympathy for interests. France, the largest military force in the European Union, quickly diagnosed the threat to the European interests posed by the new Turkish aggression and found itself on the side of Greece and Cyprus in practice. This provision will bring the two countries closer together, and will allow for greater interoperability between the Hellenic Air Force and the Navy and the Air Force of France, increasing the incentives for more frequent common exercises. With regard to the content of the three contracts for the supply of aircraft, their support and the supply of the required weapons systems, as I have already said, it is a result of extensive negotiations with the respective companies, with the French side accepting all the Greek positions. The details of these negotiations were fully and adequately explained by the political and military leadership of the Ministry of National Defence and presented to the work of the committee, but also here today by our rapporteur. In closing, Mr President, with today's draft law and the supply of Raphael aircraft, Greece is increasing its strength and allied ties. The new national strategy proposed by the government allows our country to claim the application of international law, starting with the expansion of our territorial waters in the Ionian Sea. I welcome the political forces supporting today's draft law in the context of national consensus, and I call on all colleagues to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u149	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. If Mr. Drits is ready to tell us otherwise, we can continue with Mrs. Tyloridou from SYRIZA. It's not Mr. Dritsa's answer, so Mrs. Olympia Telloridou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we must all have a firm attitude and commitment to an active and multidimensional foreign policy defending our sovereign rights without deductions to International Law. At the same time, we must help upgrade our country's defence shield. However, since some colleagues from this morning in this debate are preaching and teaching unity to SYRIZA officials, I would like to remind them that we have proved that SYRIZA has been backing the national effort, contrary to what New Democracy officials have done when they were in opposition, who even came to say that they trust Erdogan more than the then Greek Prime Minister, or that the challenge in the Aegean is not being made by Turkey, but is causing it by Greece. Let us make it clear that we are a responsible political force. We therefore support the strengthening of the Armed Forces with new weapons systems. And those who attempted last days to create the image that Civic Opposition does not support the constant struggle of Air Force officials offering a very bad service at the place. We must all be united in the face of Turkish reform policy and not leave blurred messages that open the appetite of Mr Erdogan. That is why I am going to strengthen what our Parliamentary representative, Mr Ragus, said, was a bad year for national issues in 2020. And to tell Mr. Brutsi that SYRIZA is proud of the strength and worthy of the Armed Forces. For this government, it is not proud of the government that, for the entire four months, the "ORUC REIS" allowed the Greek helmets to take a breath from Kastelorizo and to justify this political choice - because it was the choice of the government and not the military leadership, which we respect - it made and allogeous statements, that there is noise and they cannot do any research, that they are carried out by the wind and others. Here, then, we must make it clear that we as a responsible opposition must control and ask questions to the government about the national strategy that our country must oppose against the current threat. That is why we have to ask these questions about the convention we are discussing today. We have another reason to do that. The reason for this is that, with the effort of our government and the sacrifices of the Greek people, the New Democracy Government can now move on to this market because it has found a secure economic environment with 37 billion 'cushion' and not the empty funds that we have received. At the same time, however, it is crucial to proceed with steady steps that are integrated into a coherent strategic planning. We support the Rafahs market because they are indeed strengthening the country's defence capacity. But even this very critical option gives the impression that it has emerged in a cloudy landscape of political decisions and this is reflected in the fact that in recent months the New Democracy opened the debate on the F-35 market, because, as it was saying, it was the most ready and modern of the market, and we learned that it was moving on to debates in Paris to buy freshmen from France, and the other was saying that freshmen would buy from the United States and we ended up in the Rafalis. In fact, there is a convention in plenary that has not been involved in the extent to which the committee responsible for armaments should have, which was also criticised by New Democracy officials. We therefore believe that the government should pursue an integrated plan for equipment in cooperation with the military leadership, identify priorities and meet the real needs of strengthening national defence. That is what everyone who has the institutional responsibility needs, as well as taking advantage of their knowledge and experience. It is also necessary not to repeat problems of the past where we were paying millions from the sweat of the Greek people for the purchase of equipment which in short periods were inactive because, for example, there were no maintenance contracts, no networking or spare parts. We are therefore voting to strengthen our Air Force and we want in total the strengthening of the Armed Forces with proper planning. There are some issues in this contract which show that it is a heterogeneous contract, mainly for the French companies and not for the Greek State. For example, cooperation with the Greek Defence Industry is not guaranteed. I believe that Greek control, for example, should be sought in the maintenance of aircraft. There should be a strategic choice to upgrade the Greek Defence Industry. Unfortunately, the New Democracy is obviously annoyed by everything in public. Perhaps if he had been able to privatise ODA, he would have made sure that such a provision existed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u151	Mrs. Tyloridou, please complete. You've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u152	I shall conclude, Mr President. I will not go on with the problem of the contract because my previous colleagues have mentioned it. So what I would like to say is that, in the hope that this convention will not reach the point of serving illegal interests, as has been done in the past, and with the promise that we, for our part, will control the course of the Raphael Convention and the Raphael Market, we are voting in favour of this market, but we are not giving a white cheque. We call on the government to lift the country's needs for national unity, which is not based on impressions, but on real understanding, transparency and respect for the democratic process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, too. Is Mr. Dritsas connected? Oh, no. We'll wait a little longer. I will give the floor now to Mr. Booba from the Greek Solution. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. The saying in the Air Force, the ultimate saying, is that no one has left us up there. You can see what that says. What our airmen say is that the smooth landing is done by great luck. The second smooth landing is done by absolute luck. The third landing, ladies and gentlemen, is a lie. It can't be smooth. We say this to highlight the morality and the Armed Forces and especially our Air Forces. From the first moment as a Greek Solution we have told you that we must arm ourselves, "stop", become a country that can support the air, the sea and the land. But we must also strengthen the spirit of the Armed Forces. What do I mean? The best plane in the world to bring, with the most advanced systems, if men and women of the Armed Forces are not satisfied, nothing happens. It's all about human resources. That is what we need to use. We cannot today have pilots with EUR 1,100 a month's salary and wait to be flying so that they can get more than that. Only 24 hours to live on an aircraft fate, you'll see what their families are experiencing, because their homes are in the airports and they don't know if they'll be back. You know, take-off - they say to Air Force - is optional, but landing is compulsory. Mr. Undersecretary, Mr. Stefani, because you're black-haired, you'll have to see green-haired ones as well. I told you. It's Air Force and Paratroopers. The half-month maintenance allowance cannot be integrated into the salary. When I served in paratroopers, do you know how we expected this allowance? As a manna from heaven. They're losing money. Look at it. You're sensitive to military issues. Now I could refer to a lot of issues, but here, gentlemen, Mr. Velopoulos told you, you were told by Antonis Mylonakis, Vassilis Villiardos, Costas Hetas, my likeness. Transnational agreement, not just an agreement with French companies and whey and alas if we leave the planes naked. The French guy said they'd give us eight Rafahs and not six. Perhaps it was because I am reading some military analysts and even - it is not even a 20-plus of aircraft. The solution is therefore temporary and policing, in introductory form, in the air will be in a limited space. So we will need other aircraft and that is the truth, perhaps because it is a time-consuming saying by the great Thucydides: "The war on arms now is a good thing. This saying, gentlemen, is timeless. The war is not done with weapons, it is done with expenditure. Our neighbor's not the Italians. Switzerland, as the Greek Solution and Mr. Velopoulos have told you, is armed to weapons even though it has no problem and has strengthened the National Guard, but unfortunately we are neither Liechtenstein nor Switzerland. We have Turkey's imperialist trend. I call on you today, gentlemen, to develop other relations with France. "Greece - France alliance," says the people. Since the time of Roman times we have had unscathed relationships with the Galatians. Let me remind you that Adamantios Korais, King Velestinlis, Antony Kyriazis were breast-feeding with the French spirit. Since the French Revolution of 1789 we have been affected for independence, of which we celebrate for 200 years. The Morale movement has been attended by the French. The only point was when Eleftherios Venizelos lost the election in November 1920. History shows us the way. I must also say that the Cypriots have already contracted to have De Gaulle on the island of Aphrodite and will be called "Evangelos Florakis". The Minister of Cyprus signed this with Florence Parli of France a few months ago, because the French want to provide help. Let me also remind you that the greatest French generals were the ones who trained the Greek army. So we have to show the philhellenes through France, such as Charles Favieros. I mean, history is the lesson that leads politicians not to make mistakes in the future or to try to do some things that were right in the past few years. You know, if we do a reasoned management policy - which Velopoulos says - with the independent authorities, we will save money to shield ourselves. So to shield our air force and embrace pilots who fight on a day-to-day basis there, and we are obliged to bring them down safely. I say this because only the word Rafah in French is a female. What does it mean? Abrupt blow of air. This steep blow of air to blow another air into the Armed Forces we need it. So they will also return our children, and this will proudly be the same, because we must be a powerful country, which will prevent any danger. In conclusion, I will remind you once again of what we are talking about negotiating for exploratory investigations. The 1988 Mea culpa in Davos between Andreas Papandreou and Ozal why was it said? For we have wrongly gone to the debate and were banned by the Turks from doing sea research. And you know, the contact point - Velopoulos had saved us from Strongyli, Megisti and Ro, the point the Turks want - Mr. Panagiotopoulos knows in our childhood we have once been in Kavala - is in the position of "Baburas". You know that, Minister, ten nautical miles from Thassos, there is the'main dish'. And when the "Energy Aegean" wanted to do research after thirty years, because we were bound by the Davos Agreement, it did the investigations, while the Greek Petroleum itself banned it, i.e. we ourselves prohibited drilling. The biggest look, then, is ten nautical miles from the coast of Saint John of Thassos. There is mostly the eyes of the Turks. In 1991, Istanbul Mitsotakis - Demirel, the same mistake, in Davos, the issue of Skopje with this shameful agreement. Everything in Davos is 'cooked'. So, on the basis of these mistakes we have made in the past, how do we go in the future to go into an endless dialogue with Turkey's imperialist tendency to negotiate what? The property title?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u155	Finish, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u156	I shall conclude, Mr President. I've exceeded time, I know. We will be in favour of strengthening the Armed Forces, but we shall also embrace the men and women of the Armed Forces in order to have morally immorality. To embrace more and a national defensive doctrine, ladies and gentlemen, with Cyprus, because Turkey with the nuclear reactor of "Akuyios" will be a nuclear force that trespasses both the Basel Treaty and we have denounced it as a Greek solution. In closing, I will say: How will you trust a Germany? Forty-one Leopard tanks -2A4 just before the coroner with all this and just before fishing for the "ORUC REIS" in the Aegean Sea, they carried to the pseudo-state of shame. The Germans themselves are arming them and carrying equipment to the Occupied. Look at it, because we owe the next generations to raise the spirit of the Armed Forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u157	Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. I asked for the floor, firstly, to express my satisfaction at the acceptance of the second part of the amendment, which is part of Article 4, which relates to an institutional obligation of the Ministry to inform the Committee on Informatics on the progress of implementing the conventions passed by Parliament today and, of course, to its statement, which is recorded in the Minutes, that in the first part on the pursuit, we will have as much cooperation as possible. And that this will be the goal of the Ministry. Of course, I would say that accepting this amendment does not remove the remarks and everything else that could be better than contracts, but it is important to us with the addition that is being made. Finally, let us say that what we have to see as a whole is issues that have been raised by all the speakers concerning long-term planning and, of course, to see after the completion and approval of the broader planning for the Armed Forces, how we will proceed in next steps. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u159	Mr Mylonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Finally, after several hours of meetings, I think that the entire Greek people should be satisfied. The political system is finally beginning to be interested in the Armed Forces. We believe the market was good and the selection of the aircraft, Mr. Ministers, was very good. What we want to say, Mr President, is this. Let's all be an example of this work done by the Air Force General and the Ministry and put things down and talk seriously about the next day. Our Defence Industry must, Minister, begin to wake up. He's got possibilities unlimited. In the Greek Air Industry it can work a lot of people with huge potential and make the difference both in drones and the "TELEMACHOS" can go ahead and the Defence Industry can finally wake up. We are also going to propose. Because the Defence Industry is in the hands of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Development is involved and cannot be involved, as has been said, the Ministry of National Defence, let it become a General Secretariat, which will supervise the Defence Industry and will finally start working the system seriously, with the aim and programme. Only then can we give a new breath for the next day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u161	Mrs Sacorafa has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. I won't be too late. I do not want to repeat the reasons why you are obligating us to vote against a bill on defensive expenditure. To be precise, we are voting against the three specific conventions contained in this bill and that also answers to you, Mr Secretary, Mr Stefani. We have neither questioned the necessity nor the quality of the weapons. You are the ones who are also the most qualified of us and we certainly do not deny that the House will be equipped under any circumstances. This is where we look at the need, but we also check the contracts. That is our key role. We're talking about contracts here. I think that, in my position too, I said that we consider the agreements of a colonial nature to be totally unfavourable to the rights and interests of our country. And believe me, I believe that this whole scene doesn't honor any of us at all. The reality is obvious. Just because you are fully aware of the content of the contracts, so you have exhausted all possible procedures with urgency and confidentiality. You will allow me to say that we have come to hear from government lips that confidentiality has been described in this way on the basis of suppliers' requirements. What can we say now? You directly admit here that you have chosen that the interests of manufacturers prevail even in the democratic institutions of the country. In any case, it should be clear to everyone that we are not going to consent either now or never in the future to such practices. Our refusal concerns both the substance of these conventions, that is to say, their terms and the methods for their rapid legitimisation, because we believe that there was really time and we could have a more substantial debate if the bill had been tabled - on 5 January, the Minister said - if it had been given to Members a long time before we could be fully informed when we arrived at the committees. Unfortunately, however, everything shows that you will repeat this in the future, and that is an additional reason and responsibility for us. For us to close and say it in a way that everyone can understand, patriotism, Minister, the one we at least feel, is the one that forces us to vote against this bill. In any case, I think we are quite clear. You managed this - to make us vote against a bill that we wanted to vote on from the outset. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Georgios Tsipras, rapporteur of SYRIZA, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Because, according to all the speakers in the New Democracy, today is a very long time, one would expect the Prime Minister to be here. Why is the Prime Minister not here at such a great time for the Armed Forces and the country's defense to defend this choice? I would say to you, Mr Ministers of Defence, that very poorly enough anyone who gives the writings to the spokesmen of the New Democracy gave them ten to fifteen times to say how terrible a weapon Meteor is. Think about it. You're hurting the country and the defense. Poor thing. There is all the literature, for which the President of Parliament also has a small responsibility, for a strategic lead. It's the wrong placements. They're not good for us, they're harming us. But that starts with something else. We are not doing well for foreign policy, and that is what the country's defence and the Armed Forces are trying to support, and we must give a greater avata somewhere. Look, and I'll tell you very simply, if we had won more diplomatically all this time Turkey has increased its aggression, it would be worth just one and two degrees Rafah. One of us had forced Europeans and especially the Germans to take another stand, if we had succeeded, it would be worth as much as one or two degrees of Rafah. And here's a little parentheses for the JRC. You are wrong to forgive the government, because Germany is looking at economic interests, and that is why it will not stop and will not arms embargo on Turkey. Why do you put it like that? Why such a forgiveness of sin? Greece is a member of the European Union. With the Syrian Kurds, when the war was taking place in Kobani, the Germans, among others, made a temporary arms embargo in Turkey. And for us, who are a member of the European Union, nothing. And you didn't seriously try to do that. The successes of foreign policy, which depend on deterrent power and not on military lead, are far more and more worthwhile than many degrees of Rafah. Let me say one last thing, Mr. Stefani. First of all, I do not want to comment - and I do not have time - on many speakers who have said that an effort is now under way for the Armed Forces. A little shame. The effort has started for many years now. For seven - eight memorial years, you left the economy, you left the Armed Forces too. Don't get out of here, but I want to say something special. Mr Stefani said that a year and a half now the whole plan is a national plan. Unfortunately, that is not the case, Mr Stefani. There was hunters inside the Armed Forces, as there was hunters inside the police and elsewhere, and this is not a national plan. It's a very bad precedent for the future. We didn't do that. He's on the point of stupidity, so I can say it like that. We didn't do that. So let us not accept a finger for a national plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u165	Mr Brutsis from New Democracy has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, thank you very much. Now at the end, Mr. Tsipras broke up. It ruined the beautiful climate that had been created, the national climate of confession. I don't understand his irritation. However, the question of persecution in the Security Body, in the Armed Forces, is far from us. It has been proved in practice, Mr President, that this faction called the New Democracy, if anything it respects, honors and supports the Armed Forces. And that's timeless, it's not just today. We always do because this party is close to the Armed Forces. It was and is always because we support the Armed Forces, their worthy of the national sovereignty of our country. Invoice to the Prime Minister's name that she's absent is wrong. The Prime Minister tomorrow will be here and his position will be more general and will also address the issues of the very important bill concerning the expansion of the Ayyalitis Zone, as well as the current bill of the Ministry of National Defence that Nikos Panagiotopoulos brings on the issue of the Rafas market. I shall close, Mr President, as follows, because I want to restore the climate to its true dimension. Today the House closes to a climate that is positive. The vast majority of the political forces of the country vote "yes" in a bill that will affect the future of our country. And with this positive vote of the majority of the parties, what the country needs, the Greek citizens and the Greek society need, a climate of unity, a climate of unity, a climate of self-confidence, a climate that brings about the lost confidence of the Greeks, and I think that is the most important thing in the completion of this process. This is a procedure whereby the Minister and the State Secretary and the Bureau have been given the opportunity to hold an extensive, democratic and in-depth debate. A reply was given through the procedure of the closed sessions to questions which were rightly raised by the Officerial Representation and the other parties. So I close with the positive, Mr President, that a common denominator of our country is on such major and critical national issues that we unite forces and denominator not to be the micro-party purposes, but the word that is called Greece and here seems to have been achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, too. The President has the floor, which will be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u168	In the eye of a rapist, Mr. President. If you'll excuse me, I'll close the procedure with two or three things. Of course, it is not on the subject that we have discussed today the position of the honourable Member of the Staff Regulations regarding the management of staff. But I just wanted to make one comment. If we were to have a mood of vengeance or persecution against the military leadership, the simplest we would have done would have been to change it when we took up our duties, as had been done before. But we didn't. We worked together with the previous military leadership for a semester and I would say in terms of quite good cooperation. We decided that some changes had to be made and we made them last year. But for six months we have worked together and I think we have worked quite well in general. It was more than six months, from July to late January - early February last year. Therefore, away from us these implied persecution or vengeance against any military leadership. That is how we will proceed in the future. I think that such written samples were not actually given by the current political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence. From there on, according to Manolis Anagnostakis: "We have done so far, we have done micro-industrial losses and micro-profits in netting, the issue is now what you say." Today, then, I think this House has said quite a message in general that most of all, in terms of mood and predisposition, perhaps not all, in terms of the final decision and the final attitude, we have a positive attitude towards the great effort to strengthen the Armed Forces of the country. I would therefore like to thank all the actors in the debate, of course the rapporteurs, as well as the rapporteur for the parliamentary majority and my colleague in my constituency, Mrs Varlos Lazaridis, who explained very clearly and clearly, I think, the arguments in favour of voting in favour of this bill. Of course I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their contribution to the debate on arguments and with reasonable reservations that have been expressed, due to the suffocating time that we have had to bring this bill to a crisis, but having made the best possible effort to provide all possible clarification on complex and complex technical issues, but also some legal issues, of course, concerning the implementation of contracts. I would also like to thank the Parliamentary Representatives of the parties, and of course, which I could not omit, the Ministry's political and military leadership and the officials who have carried out in a very short period of time, not only for the Greek data but also beyond the Greek data, the enormous work that has to be done, so that from an initial debate we can reach out to draft conventions submitted in the bill, for the reasons I have described, before this House. Among other things, the existing, but also enhanced strategic relationship with France has been reflected, which I believe there are conditions for strengthening and widening even further, due to the good mood shown in the negotiations and by the French side at all levels. From there on, however, I was glad and willing to accept KINAL's amendment. I think that the ground is opened before us for thorough and thorough control of the good execution of these conventions which are the institutional regulatory framework of this draft law. Even if there was no institutional obligation for the opposition parties to do so, which now after the amendment has been accepted, I would urge them to do so again. And, of course, I share the concern about the state of the domestic defence industry, which I hope will soon be able - and we need to work on this - to be able to support at least in a second year the work that will result from the maintenance of these and other weapons systems. Of course, this is a purpose to which we all have to work. And to answer Mr Vitsa's question, we will certainly also work in that direction. I think that's the purpose that unites us all. In these words, I would like to thank you once again for your contribution. I think that today we have given a little bit of a clear signal which is clear and in every direction and consists of a very important step, a step, I would say, and even handled under difficult circumstances. Because while we were negotiating, at the same time we managed two crises: that of the pandemic that was global and that of tension with the neighbouring country. I think we did it at the best possible point. From now on, we must all monitor and control the performance of this convention as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of law, and the amendment to the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence, is adjourned: 'Application of draft conventions in the field of defence'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, four articles, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u170	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u171	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, appear on the screens of the Chamber, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u172	Consequently, following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Approval of draft contracts in the field of defence’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u174	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-14-S1-commons.u175	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.06 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 15 January 2021, at 10.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a special agenda, a debate, at the request of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, pursuant to Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure, on the subject of informing the House about government policy on the management of the pandemic.
