ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 3-9-2021, the PPP's minutes of Friday 3 September 2021 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Reform of expulsion procedures and return procedures for third-country citizens, attracting investors and digital nomads, issues of residence permits and procedures for granting international protection, and other urgent provisions of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum and Civil Protection’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In a written document, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informed the House of the timely questions to be debated. We begin with the tenth question under number 1010/30-8-2021 of the second cycle of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros (Alexis) Gift to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on "No progress in the implementation of the project to upgrade the good Water - Tsakon Road". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for three minutes and two minutes in your dentistry and three minutes in the Minister. We have too many questions. Most will be answered and we need to be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to keep the time. Good evening, Minister. If I had to prioritise the critical infrastructure projects my region, Messinia Prefecture, I would say that at the top of the agenda there is the old road network in the region. Some time ago we had the opportunity to discuss the great, emblematic work of the region in Kalamata - Rizzomylos - Methoni - I had pre-empted you, then, that there will also be a timely question for this project - and today we are discussing the work of Good Water - Chacona, which is the second very important axis for our region. This is a twenty-seven-kilometre road and, with the implementation of this road, Olympia will be linked to the Morea motorway, but - and, in my opinion, this is very crucial - it will also form part of the Trans-European Network of the Adriatic Road, with all the advantages resulting from this transnational link. Such a project will enhance the region as a whole, a region that has recently been in a situation of increased tourist development, and will also make Kalamata port an important transit centre for the whole of southern Greece. The other, of course, is a very serious aspect of this work, since at the moment the existing network has only one lane per direction, unguarded and incompletely marked crossings which serve the adjoining settlements, so that, Minister, unfortunately, we have been mourning on this road over the last decade more than seventy dead and more than four thousand injured. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In attempting to seek the planning of the Ministry, in relation to this project, I fell on some of the statements you made, Minister, months ago and you said that "there will be discussions and decisions for its integration" - the project, i.e. Good Water - Tsakona in the concession agreement of Patras - Tower immediately after the European Union's approval for the Patras - Tower section." I, Minister, will not disagree with you. I think it is right, it is right, to be a priority for the state at the moment, the specific and multipathic Patras - Tower motorway, for which we have discussed on several occasions and it makes no sense at this time to paradoxize as I think that the citizens have reached their conclusions, but unfortunately, we do not have any information on what is happening with the timetable, but also on the method of implementing the important project - so I would describe it - which is the axis of Good Water - Chakas. Because it was recently found in our region, in Messinia - where he visited but attended an event in Tripoli - the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, and we did not hear from his lips something younger than this project, I think today is a good opportunity with this timely question to inform the House, but above all to inform the people of the region about what is the Ministry's planning for this project.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u4	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor and you know that you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. You know I'm always trying to keep my time, so I'm gonna go quick to answer. All the projects, Mr Haritsis - I think everyone will agree in this Chamber - all the major road projects always have a development - if you like - character. I do not think there is any place in Greece that you will go and see a major infrastructure project that is not of a development nature. Everyone knows that the multiplier in the real economy of an infrastructure project is estimated at about 1.8. But here, for this project, I think you have caught it in your question, we have another aspect, we have the road safety aspect. What I think we need to say, to make a regression - it is good not to forget what has happened in the past - is that the Tower highway - Good Water - Chacona was excluded from the contract of concession on the Olympian road. The approvals of the studies and the environmental conditions were drawn up under the concession agreement. The study then provided for a two-lane motorway with a two-lane section and a central latitude separator. It provided for the standardisation of the existing national road. I repeat. This was done and was approved in the period of 2013-2014, then the project came out of the concession. Let us not overturn now how and why. Remember. We were under a very heavy memorandum and it had been renegotiated all the time. After this section has been settled, what choice do we have, Mr. Haritsis? One option would be to make it a classic public work. The other option is to make the criminal mistake made by the SYRIZA government to break it down, as happened in Patras - Tower, we won't make the same mistake. And the other option is to try to put it back where we really believe the project belongs, that is, to the concession agreement. There are, of course, specific indicators of the viability of the project, and in line with the strict criteria set by the 2015 European Regulation 207, I cannot tell you that I am very optimistic that we could do this a classic public work. Why? Because when we were going to do the so-called NGOs, namely cost-benefit studies, when we would see the traffic burdens, the picture is that it is difficult to incorporate such a project with these technical features into the NRP without, of course, meaning that such a prospect is not to be ruled out. But what have we done now? And I will close with that, Mr President, so that I can have time in my dentistry. Firstly, we solve the Gordian bond between Patras and Tower, a project that has drawn up the pandemics. And what have we done? We've just taken three steps. Firstly, we have ensured funding so that we do not have a problem of funding after 1923. Secondly, we have received approval from the relevant Directorate-General to take the work back to the concession, which I can assure you was very difficult and after painful negotiations. And I want to believe - and I believe - that according to all the information that we have that very soon we will also have the final green light from DGComp on State aid issues. And then it's true that we have to start ripe, because right now, as I told you, the work is not mature, the studies are '13-14, and we have to update the other roadmap, that axis you're talking about. And I want to assure you that after we close the first chapter called Patras - Tower very quickly, we will also open up the chapter of the second project with a preferred solution to the integration of the project into the concession agreement without excluding the classic solution of the public project. Let us not forget that it is a budget project of 160 million plus 30 million expropriations, one quite if you want an expensive, but very important project for the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I will be very brief. This project to understand and those who are following us also have the very important feature of linking the two major motorways of the Peloponnese region, the Olympian Road and the Morea. It is a project that has a strategic character, and as I said on my initiative, a project linking the region and the entire network of Adriatic and Macro-region, which, for us and for the whole of Western Greece, I think is very important. From there I see, Minister, that you recognize the importance of the project, you recognize its value. You have presented three possible prospects for this project. I will not disagree that accession to the concession agreement in Olympia would be a solution, which would probably also be more beneficial to the public in order not to bear all the costs of carrying out the project in question. You talked about the studies. I believe that, since there are studies from '13-14, an update cannot be such a difficult task, which cannot be carried out within a few months to proceed with this project. I would point out, therefore, once again that since the Ministry proceeded with the way it went and with the choices he made about Patras - Tower - I will not look into it now, it is not the subject of today's debate, the citizens have drawn their conclusions - it is now the opportunity without losing any more time to complete this part, which is very important. Am I telling you? So, Minister, the Ministry very soon has to reach the best possible solution and proceed with this project, a project which will give impetus to a region with great development potential, but which will also offer security to the citizens because they have suffered the problems from the old road network in the region. We are therefore waiting, Minister, for you to be more optimistic next time - because you said that you are not very optimistic today - that the process has gone ahead and we can soon move on to this project. I can assure you that we will support a solution which will actually go ahead, but no more delays, no more uncertainties. There are no other oligopoies in such important infrastructure projects. Especially during the time of the crisis and the pandemic, so important development projects must proceed without further delay. Evidently Kalamata - Rizzomylos - Pylos - Methoni is the great work of the region, in which we have also seen delays in recent times. However, this particular axis must proceed without further delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u8	Minister, please within the year. Don't go to five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u9	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u10	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u11	First of all, I'm not pessimistic at all. I'm very optimistic. I told you what our alternatives are. I am even more optimistic by listening to the former Minister of SYRIZA, who actually says something that other colleagues have not said and that is what I have said many times, because he expresses - I would say - the most moderate side of his party. You have not talked negatively about the integration of the project into the concession agreement, which, of course, your colleagues have not said about the Patras to Tower. For Patras - tower I remind you and remind everyone who is following us that while the project was ready to be auctioned by the Samaras - Venizelos Government as a single public project, for reasons that are not here to discuss - we have discussed them many times in this Chamber - this government has decided to split up the project. And we were in a dead end. The competent committees in the European Union have 'allergies' in the divisions. And they said quite rightly that if the project is not done by 2023, it is over and we will start the process of budgetary correction. So we went and said then that we would put the project back on the concession and we did it. I am therefore pleased that you yourself are saying that this is a solution that we need to consider. So I say that we have closed down a very important chapter called Patras - Tower. We're also closing Kalamata's chapter - Rizzomylos. And in another question you have asked me, Mr Haritsis, I have told you that we are continuing this work in the context of your own policy. In some works that we feel would never be done, we stop them and redesign them, such as Patras - Tower. But in projects - it was a PPP that you had started - which we believe is the right procedure, we continue with them. Now let's go on this one, and I'll close it, Mr President. We need to draw up a series of final studies, which are technical, plumbing, sewerage, drainage, labelling studies, electric lighting studies, the total cost of which, together with all the geotechnical studies, amount to EUR 6 million. At this point, I would like to remind you that the donation of "MOREA S.A.", carried out in 2016 to cover this cost, was revoked in 2016 for your own days. Here we are, and here I agree with you that the Ministry will immediately find the resources, at least, for there to be studying maturity for this project. After we close the Patras to Tower, our priority will be this project, because we understand the development prospects it has for the region. But, as I have said before, Mr Haritsis, it is also a matter of road safety and road safety issues are the priority of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u12	We continue with the fifteenth under the number 1004/30-8-2021 topical question of the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Let compensation be paid to those affected by the floods of October and November 2020 in Crete at last". Mr President, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the question is to be heard as to when compensation will finally be paid to the people affected by the floods in October and November 2020 in Crete on the occasion of the recent legislation in Parliament, so that there are no corresponding delays in the damage caused by the recent fires. It has been shown that this is a very bureaucratic process, regardless of intentions. The result is that even the demarcation of the affected areas took about ten months to take place and, of course, there are issues which were partly overcome by the regulation on Janos, which took place in the area of Thessaly, but then the government did not agree to introduce the disasters of Crete into the same regulation. So today, what I want you to tell me - because where the damage is going to be - is what these delays are due to so that we can possibly see institutional change in this system and not be repeated. Not only to see if there were people's responsibilities, but above all not to repeat them in the future. Of course, and what is the timetable for the compensation to be paid to those affected by the floods in October and November, which, of course, damages are a number of categories. We have the damage in the buildings in general - houses, shops - to infrastructure, which, if I have good information, is the sole responsibility of your Ministry. It is the damage to raw materials, goods and other stores, which the Ministry of Finance must be responsible for in cooperation with the region. It is also damage to the construction, which must be the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. I must say that this has moved to some extent. Houses and first aids, six hundred and six hundred have been paid. The rest of the stuff's still on the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u14	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking about informing, Mr Kegeroglu, because you are well informed of the flooding events, phenomena and events that took place in Crete in October and November. First, what did we do? Because I remember we had the opportunity to discuss this together in the House at earlier times. In a very short time and, in particular, on 23 November, the autopsies of the special workshops of the Ministry of Infrastructure were completed. How many buildings were examined? Eight hundred and seventy-four buildings were examined in the district units of Heraklion, Rethymno and Lassithi. Secondly - I answer here for any delays, to understand exactly what has happened - the envisaged procedure must be followed in a specific way. I would like to explain that, first of all, the region makes known, Mr Kegeroglu, in writing, and then, after having come into contact with the cities affected, it sends out a request for demarcation. Do you know when this happened, Mr. Kegeroglu? February 26th. We had flooding in October - November and the process by the district and municipalities was completed almost six months later, and on 18 March it pushed all the data to the Ministry. We, on our side in the meantime, don't wait, what did we do? We have drafted and immediately launched a joint ministerial decision on the demarcation of the affected areas. What have we done since? Firstly, we published in April, as I personally committed, the FYROM by FYROM 1763 on demarcation of the areas affected in October and November. Secondly, in June, we published the KHS at FEK 2465/B on the granting of the housing aid for the buildings affected in Heraklion and Chania. Thirdly, in July the ministerial decision comes from us on the time limits and the procedure for granting housing aid. Where exactly has the government been delayed when districts and municipalities made more than five months to demarcate the areas? On the contrary, I would say that we managed and completed the process, because in the meantime we renewed the contracts of staff serving in the Natural Disaster Restoration Sector in Chania and cover the whole region of Crete. Our aim now is to give the relevant repair permits immediately. Of the four hundred eighty-four buildings I mentioned, fifty-four buildings have been approved, Mr Kegeroglu. I would tell you that most of these buildings are the so-called red or yellow. They are buildings, which can be inhabited directly. This housing assistance process, therefore, has started immediately. Now we are often confusing housing assistance, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, what you said quite rightly, namely the construction, from EUR 600 to EUR 6 000, is given to the municipalities and the municipalities are given to the affected, and as far as the compensation given by the Ministry of Development is concerned for raw materials or the compensation paid by ELGA to farmers is concerned. So as far as we're concerned, we've already come up with all the autopsies. There have been the first authorisations for the fifty-four who have the right to take money and the process is under way. In my dentistry, Mr Kegeroglu, I will tell you why the example of Janus you mentioned has not been followed in this particular case.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u17	Minister, it is certain that the state, self-government and administration, for ten or eleven months, have not been able to cope with its obligation towards the affected. I will not disagree with the division of responsibilities, that the delay has been delayed, and that has to be done. Selfgovernment has a responsibility, but it also has a specific deadline. This cannot be done after four months. I am referring more generally to the fact that in other cases, unfortunately, I think that the tiles of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which were actually from the first day there - I say that, because I had visited some of the affected municipalities - could have also made the suggestion of delimiting the area, since they had done the autopsies if there was an oligarchy. This is therefore an issue that needs regulation. I cannot say for sure if it has been dealt with in subsequent arrangements but, it is not an excuse for any of us to do this. The Ministry then made several other months after the district, to make the two decisions that you referred to. So this is an issue that we need to see in the institutions and see how we deal with it. On the subject of the procedure for the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which concerns housing, you said that the procedure was initiated and that they have submitted fifty-four. We want a clearer timetable until the supporting documents are submitted, until when they are assessed, examined and we want to assess when the compensation is to be paid. I have what you said about the responsibilities of other ministries in order to address them. Because, indeed, we also have a great deal of delay for goods, raw materials and those which have been destroyed in businesses. ELGA seems to have gone faster on these procedures of the Ministry of Rural Development, but today at least to clarify the timetable and procedure of the Ministry of Infrastructure, so that the affected are informed, at least for this part, and we will see with Parliament's Control to the Ministry of Development the other business issues. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, to put the numbers right - because I, too, may have made a little mistake - were eight hundred and seventy-four self-conscious in buildings. By 23 November, the blocks of the Ministry of Infrastructure took place. Fifty-one applications for a licence have been submitted to date. What does that mean? That means eight hundred and seventy-four self-consciousnesss of fifty - fifty one who applied for themselves - and I must tell you, Mr Kegeroglu, that many of these applications are incomplete and have problems. These applications, however, are for the issue of a repair licence and housing assistance, which are already being met. The first three dossiers are directly met. In other words, the payment of money has already begun on several occasions. Unfortunately, I am not in a position to tell you when this procedure will end, because this is a housing assistance procedure, where there is a procedure with the engineer's file. The question, however, is that these fifty-one people who have asked for compensation, will be compensated and the procedure has already begun. Now let's go talk about the exceptional cases that we gave to major natural disasters, such as Evia and Karditsa, once EUR 5,000 and EUR 8 000. This, Mr Kegeroglu, is an exceptional situation and without wanting to underestimate the flooding phenomenon of Crete in October and November 2021, the evidence shows that there were no major disasters in the building. In other words, we had no buildings, which were completely destroyed, as we have in Barumbas and Evia with the fires, and that is why the government is coming and doing something that is the above. It comes in, that is to say, once and for all all all the other subscriptions and once. It is a good thing, of course, that I am keeping what you said - because we are experiencing these natural disasters very often, perhaps we should not legislate on exceptional occasions and have a specific and general framework. I will close, Mr President - I will present to Mr Kegeroglu the anti-military works in the Minutes - by telling you the next step we have taken. Because the Ministry of Infrastructure, in addition to the autopsies in the building, is also responsible for the large flooding projects. In the region of Crete, therefore, we have already registered for the municipalities - only for the municipalities - EUR 25 000 000 for the restoration of the infrastructure of the affected municipalities. This includes road and water supply projects. So the municipalities have for a long time now been at their disposal of EUR 25,000,000, and this comes to add, Mr Kegeroglu, to what the Ministry of Development has already given, which is another EUR 13,8 million in the region of Crete and has entered it in the CSCE of natural disasters. With what I say to you, I think that the government has stood up to the circumstances and we are, from the very beginning, next to those affected by the autopsy, and not only are we acting immediately, but we also see in the long term what projects must be done, and that is why I mention in the Minutes these flooding projects, which we have given the municipalities to carry out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u20	Let me point out now, on the basis of information from the Secretary-General of the Special Secretariat of the Government, that the first question under number 1005/30-8-2021 of the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP Pella - the Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jackis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Manufacture of the Almopian Dam (Kales), will not be answered because of irresponsibility. Also, Mr. Ioannis Pappas has requested a short-day leave for his absence abroad for family reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u21	Therefore, this House approved the requested permission. We move to the third topical question of the first cycle, No. 996/30-8-2021 of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "To withdraw the dismissal of the President of the Trade Union Workers' Party Medals and Quarry of Northern Greece and protect the right to work and trade union activity". Mr. Stoltides, you have two minutes for your prototype and three for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Vardakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, we have an unprecedented practice here, because it has not been possible to dry the ink of the Hatzidakis excretion law and its anti-virtual function has already begun. On the basis of this law, the Italian company "EDILMAC", which operates at the Olympiad "Greek Chrysos" in Greece, dismissed a non-manufacturer - not that it is important in relation to what is signalled - who is also President of the Trade Union Workers' and Quarry of Northern Greece and a member of the Board of Directors of the Federation of Miners of Greece. This worker, with the specialisation of technical security and as a unionist, has highlighted the health and safety problems of the workplace and has called for measures to be taken. This is the real cause of his vengeance by the contractor and not the provocational and ridiculous pretexts of the company that he has not fulfilled his obligations, a contractor, who, with the tolerance of "Greek Gold", systematically circumvents the safety measures of workers, considering the health and safety of workers as unnecessary costs. The company has targeted the collective organisation of workers and elected trade unionists. This is the second time in the last four months, which attempts to dismiss the President of a trade union, who has been on the front of the workers' health and safety issues and has been fighting, since his establishment, with considerable successes, even for their basic rights. It turns out once again that your capitalist development is based on the anti-government exploitation of terrorism and authoritarianism. It is very quickly revealed that the recently adopted contract between the Greek State and the company "Greek Chrysos", which continues the crime of handing over a critical and non-renewable mineral resource to the business groups, requires a fish silence by the workers and society for the blind acceptance of the situation. On the basis of the above, Mr Minister: what will the Ministry and the Government do, in order to immediately withdraw the avenger's retirement and trade unionist's retirement to the contractor's "EDILMAC" and to apply, without deductions, all the necessary measures for health and safety to the mines of Olympiad and to all the workplaces of "Greek Chrys". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u23	Minister, you have the floor. Please, too, be within three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll try to be in time. Mr Stoltides, industrial relations and the role of the Labour Inspectorate in complying with the relevant legislation are undoubtedly crucial issues, especially in an environment such as what Greek society has experienced in the last eighteen months. In fact, in a particular workplace, such as quarrying, where there is an increased environmental interest, safety issues and broader compliance with labour legislation are of even greater importance. I would point out the environmental dimension of the issue, because there is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which has also given us information on this issue. According to this information, on January 11, 2021 a report was submitted by the professional union of Mining Officers and Quarrying Officers of Northern Greece to the Directorate-General of Auditors of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. The document states that ‘EDILMAC LIMITED’, a branch of Greece, does not take all necessary protection measures for the health and safety of its employees’. On 15 February 2021, the Ministry of the Environment requested detailed information on the complaint. In addition, the company, namely the "Greek Chrysos", was identified as the obligation to check compliance with the safety measures at places where contractors are employed, such as the "EDILMAC". In response to the above document, on 12 March 2021 the company "Greek Chrysos" replied by means of a document setting out all the actions it has taken to monitor compliance with the safety measures and the working conditions of the contractors. However, on 8 April 2021 the Mining and Quarry Trade Union of Northern Greece submitted a complaint stating that on 26 March the company "EDILMAC" and "Greek Gold" do not allow the entry to two workers to work until they have investigated the incident, without even identifying - as the trade union denounces - the period of this procedure. Finally, on 16 April the Ministry of Environment and Energy was informed by the trade union that the company has lifted the bans for these workers since 10 April 2021 and thus normally come to work. However, as you mentioned, Mr Stoltides, in your question, on 28-7-2021 the 'EDILMAC' proceeded, for the second time in four months, to dismiss the president of the company's trade union and technical security. After that, the issue is at the stage of a work dispute. According to data sent to the Labour Inspectorate, the Halkidiki Labour Relations Inspectorate on 27-8-2021 discussed this labour dispute between the worker and the company. During the debate, the company submitted a memorandum, and the employee, who tabled a memorandum, was also placed - but this was only tabled on Friday, namely, 3-9-2021. The placement of the industrial relations inspector, who manages the case, will obviously follow after the worker's memo. But it is precisely because we are talking about a particular workplace, such as mines, that there will be prior correspondence with the Mining Inspectorate belonging to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. However, by closing my prototype, I would like to point out that the labour inspector has already asked the company to reconsider the issue of the redundancy of this worker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u25	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u26	Minister, I think your report confirms the complaints, but your law does not allow the re-entry even if the worker is justified. We believe that it is provocative and disgraceful on the part of the government to choose from the anti-Fraud Terrorism which voted to trigger the hunt for trade union activity first. They cannot, of course, wait a minute for the crows of business groups. They want to get it over with the workers' organization and their claims. And this dismissal, Minister, has been made by you, the government. It could not make it an employer and made it possible and without the possibility of re-entry. Why is that? Because as a scientist, as a qualified technical security officer, this president did his duty. He served what he studied. It did not take a step behind caring for the health and safety of workers in their work. It succeeded with the workers and built a union so that they could claim them. With their struggles, they also started winning. And you, at the employer's, who did not sign up for two whole years for the technical papers of this particular safety technician, the fired person, because he considers the life and health of the worker's cost - you gave her all the weapons to take them out. What do the workers, Minister, demand in the mines, the hardest workforce? Milk delivery for the partial restoration of the conditions dirt out of their land, support of the staircases to avoid being buried alive, emergency phone installation, not simultaneously operating many machinery to avoid drowning from the exhaust gas, observance of hours, payment by surcharge on Saturdays, take anti-COVID measures and better wages, because they cannot live with him. And this, Minister, has often been denounced by the Mines Inspectorate of Northern Greece, who never set foot! Is that possible, Minister, in 2001, really? It's understood by everyone. Is it possible for workers to claim them in 2021? We think it's disgraceful. Would you like to send a message that an enterprise can rob the unscrupulous people's wealth - the gold, in this case - of deeply destroying the environment for decades and not burning a nail for the health and life of these people, workers, workers, workers, who owe their very existence and the shareholders - owners and various other kinds of minions of their own, but also their own political staff? And all they offer is to pluck workers and whoever does not like and claim, send him to unemployment, tolerance and impoverishment, without a return. Minister, we say again, you fired the government itself, and there's no other way than getting it back. We call it clear. You're opening the Caesar's hold. This dismissal is not only a wild farm. It nullifies the value of the worker's own life, the sole producer of all wealth. Workers - we say - have passed over all the repressive walls you have occasionally set them up by all governments and will go over it too. They have no choice. And the JRC will help in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u27	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Stoltides, as I mentioned in my protology, the issues of industrial relations and ensuring compliance with labour legislation are at the top of the ministry's agenda. However, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has a specific role to play in these matters. The Ministry legislates, controls compliance with legislation - mainly through the Labour Inspectorate - but its interventions have limits which cannot and must not be exceeded. After these limits, the Greek judiciary is responsible for administering the respective disputes. But, Mr Stoltides, because you are also referring to trade union freedom issues and to the provisions of the recently adopted working draft law, I would like to make a few points to restore the truth and to avoid the creation of mistaken impressions. The trade union freedom in Greece and trade union activity are guaranteed in the Constitution and are protected by international labour conventions. I would remind you that under Article 28 of the Constitution, the international conventions signed by the country take precedence over any other provision of law. At the same time, complaints in employment relations are expressly banned for lawful trade union activity. This explicit prohibition is also included in Law No 4808/21, the Law of Hatzidakis, which was recently passed, in particular Article 88. However, the existence of a causal link between the trade union activity and the termination of the employment relationship is something that is judged to be judicially and that is exactly where the employment ministry's limit of intervention lies. But it would be good to know what really happens about what you say in your question about the recent working law. Trade unions with the new law still have very strong protection against dismissal. Article 88 of Law 4808 which I mentioned earlier amended Article 14 of Law 1264 and now provided for in paragraph 10 of the amended article that the protection of trade unions against dismissal is to be treated as the protection of pregnant women, that is to say, only for a great reason. The same paragraph provides that a trade unionist who has been made redundant may question the validity of his dismissal by means of the accelerated procedure in force for strikes. The redundant trade union will therefore be able to put forward his claims before the competent court very soon and if he is justified, he will obviously return to his post quickly. In conclusion, the new labour law is neither persecuted nor restricted to trade union activity nor reduced the protection granted to trade unionists against dismissal. That's to restore the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much. We continue with the first under number 1006/30-8-2020 in the second cycle of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis (Panou) kourikos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "What is the matter with Tatoi after all?". Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes, and please be in your time too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question is what is going on with Tatoi? According to a press release issued by the Ministry of Culture, in which you are Minister, on August 5th, a fire took place in the area of Varymbobi and due to the proximity of the area with the Tatoi estate, the competent services of the Ministry of Culture and Sport in consultation with Minister Lina Mendonis removed for prophylactic reasons items of particular historical and artistic value from their guarding sites within the historical core of the property. The operation for preventive reasons also took place during the night of the Minister. The systematic way of recording, documentation and storage of objects, as organized in their storage areas by the Department of Conservation of Ancient and New Monuments of the Ministry, allows them to be transported immediately and safely. The objects will return to Tatoi as soon as the conditions allow. At the same time, sensitive instruments and equipment were removed from the Ministry's services. As the Ministry claims, the subordination of the estate's cables, the systematic deforestation throughout its entire area and the creation of fire-fighting zones, work carried out between May and July 2021, was decisive factors in the protection of the estate. What finally happened to what the ministry announced with great importance? Absolutely nothing, as the paper "Kathimerini" described the next day and in the report, but also as the Ministry admitted with a recent press release. Tatoi was burned, the natural environment was destroyed, while two containers were completely destroyed and two containers found in the yard, according to the newspaper's report, which conceals the Ministry of Culture. Questions also arise regarding the abolition of the Committee of Experts and Officials of the Ministry of Culture on the protection, maintenance and promotion of the cultural assets of the Tatoi estate established by SYRIZA to deal with issues that have been pending for years by previous governments and while Ms. Mendoni was the Secretary-General of the Ministry. Most of them were transferred on a recommendation from the committee and were stored in a safe building in Athens and specifically at the premises of the Museum of Greek Folk Art. At the same time, it seems that there are responsibilities of the Minister of Culture for the possible destruction of relics and other objects, in addition to the two containers destroyed by the fire. So, on the basis of the above, I would like to ask the Minister - and I conclude, Mr President - what the fire safety measures which the Ministry of Culture had taken in cooperation with the Ministry of Civilisation and, secondly, what the special scientific committee set up in the Ministry of Culture has been abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u31	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u32	I ask my questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u33	You've already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u34	I'm done, Mr. President. It's four lines, I'd have told it. Thirdly, why were objects of great value transferred to the Tatoi estate again, while the space was not designed to accommodate them? What objects of the estate were transferred on 5 August? Were they all transferred or someone left behind and eventually destroyed in the containers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u35	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, I should like to reply specifically to your questions and to dentistry, if necessary, say a few more things. In the context of the restoration work of the estate and in collaboration with the Forest of Parnitha, already in July 2019, cleansing of fallen trees, decomposition of branches broken, closed paths. This cleansing in previous years did not happen. Cleaning had been preceded by the storm "Medea", but it also caused new major disasters. It was therefore decided that in addition to the work of forestry cleaning and anti-nuclear protection, systematic cleaning of the historical core was necessary. At the beginning of July 2021 the extensive cleanings were completed in the historical core with dry grass cleansing and branches and cuttings and trimmings of dangerous trees near the buildings and storage areas following the approval of the Parnitha Forestry. At the same time, the General Secretariat for Civil Protection proceeded before the beginning of the anti-nuclear period of cleansing, opening paths and creating anti-nuclear zones in both the historical core and the entire estate. I note that in the last forty years no clean-up of the forest and the creation of fire protection had taken place. The fire at Tatoi started at noon at 3-8-2021 and completely erased at 4-8-2021, to have a second cycle on Thursday afternoon on 5-8-2021 and Friday on 6-8-2021. It is obvious that the subjugation of the networks of the TEN, which we did within the property, the systematic deforestation, cleaning and the creation of fire-fighting zones have been factors which have contributed to the reduction of damage. As far as the abolition of the special scientific committee is concerned, I would like to inform you that it has been basically the responsibility of the Ministry's officials, who are today responsible for restoring the estate. They are the same people who are doing the whole Tatoi project today. They merely do not constitute a committee because the setting-up of a committee consisting of the relevant service actors, which are in fact involved, does not constitute a committee. An out-of-season member is now also a valuable partner as an expert of the Ministry and even contrary to the past where he has once participated in the committee, today attending continuous meetings. Regarding the transfer of the items mentioned in your question, it was decided in December 2016, while the committee - yours - started its work in January 2017. The transfer was therefore decided by the political leadership at the time. They were transferred - what was carried - objects to the Museum of Modern Greek Culture for temporary preservation, despite the recommendations of the relevant services of the Ministry that were completely opposite. Let me note that the number of six thousand doesn't save the over 100 thousand objects. The transfer of a limited number of objects created huge problems, both scientific and methodological, which had since been highlighted by the Ministry's services. I note that the objects transferred to the NPT were not maintained, as you said in the question. The choice was also made randomly and without criteria. So there was not even a representation of the collection. The available storage space of the building does not meet the requirements in infrastructure in order to carry out the operations planned for opening the boxes, recording, photographing and carrying out maintenance and packaging of objects. Even the way in which the space was stored was problematic and burdensome for the objects themselves. On the contrary, at the estate and especially in 2020 and 2021 modern storage facilities were created. Following a recommendation from the competent authorities and in order to respect the ethics of maintenance and recording, all objects returned to the premises concerned. That's what ethics requires, that's what science demands. From the first moment of the fire event, and before it expands within the central historical core, where the buildings, the relevant services of the Ministry are located, and I personally were on the estate in order to help with the firefighting to manage it. In this context, it was decided to remove for preventive reasons of particular historical and artistic value which were very easy to steal. We know that in such cases theft is common. In addition, sensitive instruments and equipment were removed from the Ministry's services, and obviously what I am coming back to, and I note that the systematic way of recording, documentation and storage of the objects from 2020 has allowed for the very easy removal of these small and sensitive objects. With regard to the problem with the house, which you yourself refer to in your question, I would say that a home in which there was building and cooking utensils, various devices, such as sewing machine and glass protectors, the second choice of the liquor, bottles of beer and refreshment license, paper material already damaged and woven material, sheets, towels, pillows, cases, underwear of fair value. This house was very close to the palace building. It had nothing to do with the large storage areas, and as we have repeatedly pointed out, it did not host any relics or historical evidence. There were stored media which had absolutely no historical value and for all of them there were complete catalogues and recommendations from the services. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u37	You're welcome. Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u38	In your reply, Madam President, I find it awkward that we could give her the title 'we did everything we could'. It seems you could have been very little, unfortunately. You know, Tatoi is in eastern Attica and I am politically active in this area and I am watching this region very closely. I was visiting when we had the destructive "Medea" in winter and I pointed out that these woods and trees that fell would be dangerous for a possible summer fire. "We'll pack it up" they told us. Summer's beginnings had nothing happened. I asked the relevant ministries a question, and I did not get any answers. We heard there were exercises. In the exercises you get 'excellent'. When the fire came, half Greece was destroyed, a million two thousand acres. You know, you did not answer why you carried the wealth of the newest Greek culture from the safe place in the Hellenic Museum of Folk Art, back in Tatoi, in the heart of the forest, while you were not prepared. You're talking about a hundred thousand items. It wasn't all recorded. At the Museum of Folk Art, the recorded ones were transferred to the Museum of Folk Art. You took them while they hadn't cleared the other buildings from the archives. What objects were contained in the containers you told us? You told us about the house where you found your underwear. You have not provided detailed explanations of what these two containers contained. If you don't know, then why did you repeal the committee? Two years now, you haven't finished the record. What did you do? Tatoi is high in your interest. That is how you and the Prime Minister have repeatedly said. You and the rest of Attica weren't prepared for a possible fire like the one we lived in Eastern Attica. Your anxiety is investment. Where before you announced it, there was a fire: in Corfu, in the republic of Ceremitis, where investments were announced, Tatoi, for which you had again announced that this was also burned. Your agony is for investors. And at the difficult moment major fire brigade forces were employed for things you could have predicted and missed from the rest of the forest, from the rest of the eastern Attica, from Evia, from all over Greece. Unfortunately, you said the same about the Mycenas. Do you remember when you told us they were burned down? The conclusion of the fire extinguisher is clear. The Mycenes were burned by a naked cable that was at the offices of ELTA and I imagine that this space that is the offices of ELTA is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Northern Greece, but the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. Your inability has unfortunately already been recorded in black letters in the political history of modern Greece, Minister. Enforce literally, implement the policy of a government aimed at abolishing the public character of the Tatoi property and overcoming private interests. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u39	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u40	Mr Colleagues, you have considered an awkward response which is real, is based on scientific evidence and scientific ethics of the division of collections. I don't have the requirement to understand scientific ethics, you belong to another professional area. Now let's go to what you said in your dentistry. You pointed out that the "Medea" has created disasters in the Tatoi area. So just after the "Medea" and for two and a half months not only the historical core but throughout the former royal estate, systematic work was carried out with special logging workshops under the responsibility and daily protection of civil protection. This is obviously not what you want to recognise, politically we are doing. You said that they were transferred to the safe space of the Museum of Modern Greek Culture the about six thousand mobile phones from the Tatoi area. Are you very sure that this place was safe? Because the storage conditions when we carried them any other way than that state. There are reports from the services, which are speaking in particular - and are not on our day - about poor storage conditions and from there on about the possibility of opening the boxes in this area because the conditions were so unfavourable that would create a problem for all objects.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u41	For the Folk Art Museum. You're talking about another museum.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u42	Mr. MEP, you referred to the Museum of Modern Greek Culture. It is the old MELT, the Museum of Greek People's Culture. You have changed the name to the Presidential Decree of 2018. It's just the same museum. They're just the same spaces. Your information is quite simply outdated. It is the information you have had since 2017, when you considered that while the transfer of the manager's head office and material has not been made - because that is what they say you're using -, this transfer took place in 2017 on your own days. You're saying the records aren't completed. Of course, these days were not completed because it was all material that was unsavoury in the buildings, which since July 1919 have been empty, all of them are being studied. The first contractors, the first contractors to repair the buildings, have already been installed. Mr Metten, it is at least hypocritical that the Qualifying Opposition speaks of this government's indifference to the Tatoi estate, not to say that it is absolutely hypocritical. You have done nothing for five years but carried the specific objects from Tatoi to the Museum of Modern Greek Culture or MELT, as you would like to say. At the moment, Tatoi is in full progress, and despite the destruction of the natural environment, the cultural reserve was maintained unchanged. For the first time, all the resources which are about 100 million from either the Public Investment Programme, either from the current NSRF, from the Recovery Fund, or from the next programming period have been guaranteed. Studies have been carried out, studies have been carried out, studies have been approved. You did not manage a project from Tatoi to join the NSRF of your period, 2014-2021. Has a sustainability study been carried out which shows that one has to move to Tatoi and has been guided by history, culture, respect for society and the viability of the estate and tells us that nothing has happened over the past two years in Tatoi and that we want investors in Tatoi? Where are all the things you're saying coming from?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u43	You say so. The government says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u44	Apparently, they come from the same data you're saying the Mycenes were burned. You've never been to the Mycenas. You continued from this Step of the House to say that the Lions Gate suddenly became gray. The gray, therefore, of the Lions Gate is from the time of the fire of Agamemnon, Mr. Pleasant. As for the finding of the firehouse, it surprises me how you know, because it's absolutely confidential. It hasn't been made public yet. It hasn't reached the authorities it had to reach. You know that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u45	Thank you. We welcome the Minister. We continue with the debate of the twelfth under number 1001/30-8-2021 on the second time question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Support measures and initiatives to promote Greek raisins". Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, support measures for the Greek raisin. You know, of course, that the two main varieties are sultanina, mainly produced in Crete and the black one, which is mainly produced in the regions of the Peloponnese and not only, but also in Zakynthos and in other regions. However, we have an issue that arises from last year's production in Crete. I'm talking about the sultan. Approximately seven hundred and fifty tonnes are found in the plant of processors and producers. Producers, processors and their representatives have not been absorbed, and a request has been made to deal with this problem, in order to absorb this quantity, to place on the market, to introduce the SAR on raisins. It is an issue that they propose in order to allow support for these producers. The questions are two. The first is whether you intend and with what specific timetable to take support measures for the Greek raisin and what action you will take in order to integrate the sector into the affected. The second question concerns initiatives to promote Greek grapes, which have to do with this year's production, so that we can see this product again - at least for sultanine which has had a significant decline in recent years - that production and the promotion of the product can be revived. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u47	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Kegeroglu, as you said, the Corinthian raisin, of course, sultanina is a product of our country - of course also of Heraklion - with high nutritional value and historical value for all of us. We have recently discussed several times and I thank you for your interest and for the information you have given me, especially the part of the sultanine that concerns your prefecture, in your area. Support for producers producing it, but also for producers as a whole, at this difficult time in which we, through multiple uses, are aware of the fact that it is unnecessarily and given that it is always possible. In your placement you referred to about seven hundred tonnes that have remained in warehouses. It is not entirely clear at the moment what kind of warehouses are being found, in the processors, in commercial enterprises or in producers. It is good to be able to clarify where these stocks are, because, as I have pointed out before in Parliament in relation to the Corinthian raisin last time, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food - and I am sure you are aware of this - cannot go ahead with the aid of commercial enterprises, because regardless of their composition, they are companies that pursue business policy, of course always taking the risk. The framework for financial support for companies affected by the coronary as a whole, as it is known to all and we have lived in the past few months, is formed by the relevant ministries, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Development. You said a moment ago that sultanine has no CAR and has not been strengthened during the previous months that have been affected by the coronary. It's not exactly like that. Sultanese producers throughout Greece, at the Government's initiative, have been covered. In particular, your county has been given on the basis of producers' declarations of specific money to all those who submitted the relevant papers, as well as to the rest of the territory. The amounts are data and are available to you. In addition to this, in my field of competence, in our ministry, what we have done for sultanine, but also for Corinthian raisin, is that we have contacted all public bodies. I will submit to the minutes and the letters to see them. We have also called for where production that has been left to be absorbed, so that we can indirectly and substantially strengthen our producers. If there is anything other than what you said, because thankfully we have already done what you have referred to, I am at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u50	Minister, the quantities I mentioned are, in fact, three processing companies, but also producers which did not carry out the first phase in which you referred to a COVID request, because of the potential to absorb the quantity they have from the processing companies. There's a warning difference. The C.S.O.S. Collaborative organization, for example, but also private ones, have received the raisins, but they have not paid the raisins to the producers. They have been received on their behalf, because obviously the producers did not have the proper storage facilities to keep the raisins in their homes and these quantities are, in fact, unpaid to the producers. What about this one? You're right. Everything that's been in the commercial process falls under the jurisdiction of another ministry. I would say to you what quantities of those currently in storage are, in fact, unpaid because they have not been invoiced and they are, in fact, only for storage, that is to say, they have been done on behalf of the producers and we have to talk about them, to promote a procedure to support the producers, obviously similar to the one you have already mentioned, which has already been done. That is what I would say that it is a solution from there, and for the quantities owned by commercial undertakings, to see with the other co-legislative ministries if there is any possibility of support. The big question is what will happen with the new years and in the new year, too, we need to see how we promote this product. He's in trouble. Until last year the Corinthian had no serious problems. This year he had problems too, and you rightly referred to the need for support this year. This year, in the year we are in, I think we need to see a comprehensive programme to promote the product. We have to say the same thing about sultanine. I don't know if it's the Corinthian. If there are no incentives to land then in one way or another, and they are not leading to the unification of thousands of tonnes of grapes. This poses a problem of reflection in wine varieties. In other words, we have an initial problem creating other problems. I think we should first of all find the solution and catch the problem from its root. So the sultanine should be supported, humiliated. To promote this process in order to avoid the problem with wine grape varieties and the negative effect it has on winemaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u51	You're welcome. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u52	I have no objection to discussing with the institutions of your prefecture and the producers what kind of programmes we can run to support this important historical and nutritional product, as I have said before. I'm at your disposal for that. On the trade side, we agreed that it was evading our own potential. As to whether there are any producers who have not entered the payback programmes, I do not know whether there will be any possibility of new such programmes. He's escaping my responsibilities again. However, in order to put a total order on the issue of raisins and on the issues that you said before, which concern me - it would be good to have a wider debate with the producers within the framework that we are now discussing and to see how we can rationalise the industry and support the producers either in the direction of winemaking or in the direction of verticalisation and trade of the grape in itself in any way that is appropriate. I think the mood exists. Producers are cooperative. So, I'm at your disposal whenever you want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u53	We will discuss the tenth third under number 1002/30-8-2021 in a timely question by the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Recording of the damage caused by the high temperatures in agricultural crops and direct support measures for producers". You have the floor, Mr. Colleague, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. As you can see with Mr Lebanese, we are saving time. But we don't get any credit. Only you take us down when you have to. The second question concerns the problem arising from the high temperatures on the island, particularly in the Prefecture of Heraklion, Mesara and other areas which hit the vineyards, grapes and other crops to a large extent. The effects on grapes were very important and disastrous because the critical period of ripening the grapes, which took sugar, as we say, high temperatures led to the reverse process and the grapes declined qualitatively, but they did not grow. As a result, large quantities of table grapes cannot be sold. All varieties generally have a deterioration that led to a sharp drop in prices. Let me tell you about a size class: The first category, let me say that, in the normal, quality form, took the prices of EUR 0,80 to EUR 1,20 and the second category from EUR 0,80 to EUR 0,80 pound, was reduced to EUR 0,15 and 0,20, since some quantities, namely, were sold, fell to these prices. We have a disaster which, today, seems to be largely in the vineyards because they do not have any demand and do not constitute a marketable product. As I said, however, the damage was also in outdoor horticulture, melons, watermelons and others, which the ELGA, with its records, thinks has gone ahead and will be able to say the damage that has been observed in these crops next time. We therefore want to know how you are going to support producers, what they are compensated for on the basis that the main cause is the heater - under the ELGA regulation, I think, this is anticipated - and whether there has been a complete catastrophe or not with the qualitative deterioration that has led to the reduction of the producers' income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u55	Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u56	Well, I will rush to give the answer and not to give more general information, but it is a given - you understand - that we have faced multiple crises in the recent period of climate change, and that makes the work of all services difficult - and I thank them for their efforts - on the other hand it strengthens us the fact that we can, with the means we have, deal with these crises and organise better for the immediate future as well. The change in the Ministry of the State Secretary also involves a change at this level. My colleague, Mr Kedicoglou, will be responsible for forming an overall approach to the natural disasters and the influence they have on agricultural production. We are also forming a proposal - waiting for the final suggestions of the groups working for it - for the remodelling of the ELGA. Now, in this case, workers in the ELGA have already been mobilised. To meet these needs, we have hired another sixteen geotechnics in Heraklion. For the period in which you referred to, five hundred reports of damage have been made and some six thousand statements have been made. Of these, the five thousand four hundred are for vines, including table sultanine, which we talked about before and then both are linked, so to some extent we have a joint debate and how we deal with it. The work of personalised assessments has already begun, before the end of the declarations to run, especially for sensitive crops such as those mentioned in the horticultural and boots and for the first heat has already been completed. For the second, in August, in the vineyards, the project is expected to be completed in the current month and as soon as possible we will be going to the next stage. We are trying with all our powers to compact the times for assessing the problem in order to carry out the compensations that, as you said, are indeed covered by the ELGA regulation and I would remind you, just for the record, that the respective procedures in ELGA and the support from the Ministry in the past took 15 to twenty months. We here are trying to do the job as quickly as we can to compensate producers, as we understand that problems are summed up in their backs and we are trying to give them the support they deserve.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, because you opened the debate on the need to reform and strengthen ELGA, I would like to say that the ELGA after the '10-11 reform has been streamlined and what is needed is human resources, personal, valuers. In fact, unfortunately, at certain times it wants a multiple number. In another period a huge number may not be needed, but the periods of damage need a very large number. It needs to have liquidity, which to a significant extent has been safeguarded and it needs finally to incorporate into its regulation and the injurious causes caused by the climate crisis. There is no longer any climate change. Climate change exists over the centuries. We have various changes in the natural environment, but we are now talking about a crisis, because we have changes that have been made violently and in very few years. So if you move in the direction of reforming the regulation to incorporate other injurious causes, aid to human resources and, of course, similar liquidity, I think that things will be much better in relation to both the timing of compensation and the time of assessment and the loss-making causes, which we have really dealt with many times. For these reasons, because the recordings and personalities have actually gone ahead, I believe that as far as possible the staffing capacity that makes assessments and procedure need to be strengthened so that the situation and time for payment of allowances can be shorter. Now I don't want to talk, because I don't know exactly the intentions in relation to the department you announced about the Ministry. I assume it will not be something special in that both the Ministry and the ELGA in the overall context of dealing with the problems arising from disasters in relation to plant or animal production have a common objective. There are just issues that are escaping from ELGA. In other words, there are damages and disasters which are done and which are not the damage caused by the ELGA regulation. Therefore, they will be able to produce better results in the cases of disasters from several other causes not covered by the ELGA, services and procedures supported by the Ministry. In any case, what needs to be done is an essential debate on this part. Let us not go through with choices and legislation, I am addressing the government as a whole, without having been a dialogue with those who have experience, who are the people of the MAGPs themselves, the ELGAs, the competent agencies, in other words, those who have been dealing with them in previous years. Their experience and opinions will be useful in the effort you have announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u59	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u60	Clearly there is no doubt at all, I am starting with the latter, that in dialogue we will reconcile these changes. We are waiting for the study we have ordered from our partners in the World Bank. We have gathered the evidence from our side and, of course, we will open the dialogue to listen to all the actors. The reason why we want to form a new section within the Ministry is obviously complementary to the directity that is taking place, and especially in our days, with quite a great success, and this has to do with the prevention and the holistic approach and the problem of the climate crisis that you have put it right, this is a crisis, but also how we understand the overall management of agricultural production, which we have the possibility and the weapons if we are making the right preparation to prevent many of these disasters from occurring as a result of this climate crisis. I therefore consider it a good choice, which must of course work alongside the government's overall choices both with the creation of the separate ministry and with the overall response to the climate crisis and the management of all natural and environmental resources. We are in the right direction and, as I said at the beginning, at these two levels, in the formulation of conditions for better prevention for the future and in the immediate treatment and strengthening of the disasters affected by the disasters so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Minister. The sixth under number 992/30-8-2021 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Boeotia, of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The Government must ensure the preservation of labour lawfulness and prevent collective redundancies in the Kavala Phosphoric Fertilizers industry", will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the MP. We continue with the fifth under the number 1008/30-8-2021 topical question of the second question by the Member of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "To implement the transport equivalent programme in full for Crete". Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with Law 4551/2018, the measure of the equivalent of transport was launched in a pilot run in July 2018. It was originally concerned with beneficiary units and beneficiaries of enterprises with residence or permanent seat of similar specific islands. Since 1 January 2019, the measure has been fully implemented for all the islands of the territory other than Crete. I would remind you that the Joint Ministerial Decision 4796/2018 decided to fully implement the measure to the beneficiary units (passengers) and to clarify the individual issues. In addition, Mr Minister, we included Crete in the transport equivalent with a study financed at the time by the region of Crete. We have also pointed out that the transport equivalent is not just an allowance, but a substantial support for the stimulation of the competitiveness of the companies in Crete with multiple and direct benefits for the national and regional economy. The current period of health crisis requires strengthening policies for our islands in order to stimulate the local economy. The inhabitants of Crete, Mr. Minister, are the most wronged, while living on an island, they are not treated as the inhabitants of other islands that have joined this project. Unfortunately - if you would like my opinion - poorly in the original studies, the passenger population of Crete and the transport of fuel had not been included. So I ask, Minister: do you intend to institutionalise the full implementation of the programme for Crete and natural persons, as well as for the transport of fuel? I will also present to the minutes, Mr Minister, excerpts from meetings of the Regional Council and the Crete WID which state and claim the equivalent of transport. In fact, I was informed that they had contact with the Secretary General of your Ministry, Mr. Koutulakis. I am waiting, Minister, for an answer and a solution to this problem which you too, as a Cretan, think you want to solve immediately. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u63	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I have always been serious and respectful to the honourable Members' questions, much more when it comes to issues relating to islands and our islands. But questions need to be supported and haunted in real facts. When the transport equivalent was introduced - in fact by the previous government -, in a imperfect way, the truth is that in the joint ministerial decisions that have explicitly advanced, it was stated that Evia, Lefkada and Crete are excluded, both in the joint ministerial decisions for both businesses and passengers. It is therefore clear that for the SYRIZA government, Crete had been consciously and systematically excluded from planning the transport equivalent. And it certainly does not give us any impression, because Crete has never been the field of any development initiative from the previous government. Without, of course, the Cretans ever listen to an apology, an apology, for this unacceptable attitude and behaviour. Instead, what did the Mitsotakis Government do? The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has therefore, since the first time, placed Crete at the heart of important development projects and interventions which are self-evidently linked to these projects and interventions by stimulating the competitiveness of the regional economy in Crete. Already I have to tell you that there are many important projects that have been in the drawers for decades, such as the northern road axis, and let me say here that this is the biggest development project in Crete with a specific timetable and with specific sources of funding and the upgrading of Crete's ferry connection to the rest of the island area. For the first time, we have also guaranteed Community funds from the NRP and also from the Recovery Fund for the ports of Crete totalling EUR 60 million, and also with the recent legislation on integrated maritime policy we have put Crete at the core of our public policies and funding and of course of our initiatives on the blue economy. In particular, however, Mr Vardakis, as far as the transport equivalent is concerned, it is our decision that the transport equivalent has been introduced for the companies in Crete, and even from 1-1-2020. After consulting all four Chambers of Crete and the Region of Crete, we ended up and made this decision. Unlike you, and don't tell me that you had a dialogue, because it was pretext for a few months before the elections. Any dialogue has not ended up anywhere at all. Why don't you do it? You could have done it from the beginning or later. You do not do so because you did not wish to treat Crete as an island in special circumstances. But we did it, and you cannot change that. Now let's go to concrete figures as to whether the companies in Crete benefited from the application of the transport equivalent of 1-1-2020. It has therefore been repaid for all enterprises that applied for funding in the first and second half of 2020 except those that entered the control sample for the second half. This check is expected to be completed by the beginning of October when they will be repaid.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u65	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u66	If you want, I'll finish. I won't have much to say in dentistry, so I'll finish. Overall, for 2020, two thousand four hundred sixty-one applications were submitted and received EUR 5,877,488, via the transport equivalent. In particular, from the applications for funding for the first phase of the year 2020, the thousand four hundred and fifty-four were from Crete with requested funding of EUR 4.670,280 while from the applications for financing for the second phase of the year 2020, the thousands of cents were from Crete with requested funding of EUR 1.217,186. Now for 2021, the request procedure will be completed by mid-September, and by the end of the year the payment of businesses other than those entering the sample check will be promoted. I am going to talk about your question as to the application of the transport equivalent to passengers. We have made it clear that it is something that we are considering in terms of its budgetary and practical dimensions. It is an asset that will be assessed. After all, it will be implemented as part of the revision of Law 4551/2008 by the end of the year. This study is entrusted to the Centre for Planning and Economic Research, which is an independent and objective body we trusted in, to have an integrated and documented view.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u67	Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u68	Minister, I do not think I asked you all about the previous, except for the last paragraph you have said. If I sit now and tell you what SYRIZA's government has done for four years in Crete, you will see the absence of the governments of all previous years. I asked you something specific today. Listen. I will read just one paragraph: "Because this is a distinct and unequal treatment against the citizens of Crete, please as you directly consider the integration of the movements of the permanent residents of our island and of the transport of fuel, as well as new SARs etc.". This is the proposal that has been sent to you by the Crete GDR. Something similar has also been done by the Region of Crete. I did not ask you to tell me what you are planning - so you will be judged in the next period - for infrastructure projects in Crete. In fact, I told you next time and well, that you exempted fishing shelters from privatization, because, when I come here, I want to speak essentially and not misleadingly or populistly. I repeat the question, Minister, and that is what I want an answer to. I told you that I tabled in the Minutes the minutes of the meetings of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and that of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. And don't put Evia and Lefkada on me now. You're a minister, you know there's a road network, a network that doesn't exist on your island. And let's wait for the study you're going to do, but don't deceive the work done by the previous government in terms of transport equivalent. For the first time he joined 2018, even pilots with a study of the Region of Crete funded. So, Minister, we must wait for any study and help to draw up this study. But do you intend, in the next period, to announce the passenger equivalent and the equivalent for the transport of fuel for Crete? Just understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u69	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u70	I repeat, 'cause I probably didn't make myself clear. First pretext. The decision to apply the transport equivalent to the company in Crete was a decision of the Mitsotakis Government. Secondly, given that this is the case. I would like to make it clear that, for the implementation of the transport equivalent for your passengers, I have said that at this point, a study is being carried out by the JRC, an independent body, and when we have the results from the JRC, then we will also decide, of course, on the basis of the budgetary and practical dimensions of the implementation of this measure. What I would like to make clear, however, is that for the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis Crete is part of a special and differentiated regional policy with significant support at the level of the development prospects of the companies in Crete. The resources of the NRP for the period 2021-2027 are 20% increased from the previous programming period, especially for the Ministry of Maritime and Island Policy Crete is at the heart of the development initiatives, since, as I said, we have ensured funding from the NRP, from the Recovery Fund and from the specific development programme 2022-2025.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the second under number 987/30-8-2021 with a timely question from the first cycle of the Member of the Elijah Movement, Michalis Katrin, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Unforgivable support measures for the firefighting Elias'. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, as you know, Elias suffered for the second time in fourteen years a very great natural fire disaster. Over a hundred and twenty-five thousand acres have been destroyed, half of which are plant capital, and we are talking about olive crops, vineyard crops and, of course, apiculture. The economy and the tourist movement in the Municipality of Ancient Olympia and also in the Municipality of Pyrgos, taking into account the side effects of the pandemic on the cruise, was virtually zeroed in August and the Prime Minister, in the midst of intense reactions from the institutional self-government and political bodies of Elia, was forced here in this Chamber on 25 August in the debate at the level of political leaders, to declare a reconstruction plan for Elia as well, while until then he was emphatically referring to northern Evia. He had, in fact, also set up a committee with Mr Beno presided over. Of course, to date, ten days have passed and we have nothing more specific, and it is necessary to involve institutional bodies in this committee. At the same time, it concerns the way the funds of the State Aid Fund are made available, after a ministerial decision is provided for, reminding us of the bad memories of the management of the Molyviat Fund. The measures announced by the Prime Minister, the Ministers, the ones adopted, the ones adopted by ministerial decisions, are not provided, Mr Minister, for a loss of agricultural income, at least for a five-year period. The only thing that Mr Mitsotakis did at some point was for socially beneficial projects. There is no provision for the replacement of capital for property not declared in the IACC and it is a very large part of the damaged crops and properties. There are no business support measures for the municipalities affected and which have suffered the consequences in August and will be subjected to them in the next period, due to a reduction in agricultural income, and therefore, as was the case with Arcadia, the President knows - horizontal support measures for residents of the firefighting municipalities are not adopted, as is the case for the two municipalities in Euboea horizontally for all residents. So, firstly, will you set up a Reconstruction Committee for Elias, as the Prime Minister announced two weeks ago? On what criteria do you intend to make available the resources of the State Aid Fund, since the law that we voted on last week refers to yours - I mean the Ministry of Finance - a ministerial decision? Secondly, will you restore, in what way and for what time do you think of the lost agricultural income - if you think - to strengthen the businesses and professionals of the firefighting areas of Elijah? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary has the floor. Mr. Secretary, I will listen to you because we are in Arcadia with the same issues, but I think it will apply to both of us. Don't ask you another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, the government does not operate with reasonable exclusion for any pyrophile area. This must be made clear, as the Prime Minister was clear on the prior agenda for a debate at the level of party leaders. As you know, our Government recently established for the first time a flexible and effective institutional framework for state aid to support all those affected by the consequences of natural disasters and disasters. The purpose of this new law was to reform and strengthen the institutional framework for state aid in order to have a single legislative text on the measures required following the occurrence of a natural disaster, as well as to address the weaknesses of the past, the fragmentation of responsibilities, delays in the implementation of rehabilitation decisions, and the lack of monitoring the progress of these measures. This new framework provides for financial support to be provided as a return after natural disasters coordinated, quickly and effectively, in line with Union State aid rules. The framework of state aid provides that the Ministry of Finance has an obligation to grant aid to both natural persons and undertakings affected by natural phenomena. I am referring to a subsidy to cover losses in buildings, equipment, raw materials, goods, lorries, means of production, including through capital and stored products that have been recorded as damaged. It is precisely in this context that they were supported by the Act of Legislative content of 13 August and the support measures for firefighters, which include: Firstly, aid for housing for owners of professional facilities, homes and other buildings amounting to EUR 14 000 or EUR 8 000 or EUR 3 000, depending on the size of the estimated losses. The final amount of housing aid for beneficiaries will be granted by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and will consist of 80% state aid and 20% interest-free loan with the Greek State guarantee. Secondly, first aid for construction compensation to natural persons using property as principal or secondary homes and who have been affected, EUR 6,000 or EUR 4,000 or EUR 2,000, depending on the size of the housing losses. Thirdly, the granting of first aid to the grant for damages to equipment and production facilities for businesses and non-profit-making bodies, including farms, of EUR 8 000 or EUR 4 000 or EUR 2 000, depending on the size of the damage to the installations. Especially for farms without damage to establishments, or without facilities, the amount of first aid amounts to EUR 4,000 or EUR 2,000 or EUR 1,000, depending on the extent of the multiannual crops affected. All aids are tax-free, unrestricted and incompatible with the hands of the public or third parties. They shall not be subject to any reservation, fee or contribution. They are not bound and are not offset by certain debts to the tax administration in insurance institutions, municipalities and banks. In all of this, we should add the exemption from HNPH for the years 2021, 2022 and 2023 of the property affected, provided that the owners hold a re-control report, an autopsy report or an autopsy protocol dangerously prepared building that characterises the building as dangerous or inappropriate for use. The exemption also extends to parcels where their owners hold a certificate of destruction from locally competent rural development and control departments of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. In fact, the relevant exemption from ENVY is granted on the basis of the requests to be submitted on the arogi.gov.gr platform. In what I have just said, we should add measures such as extending the payment of tax obligations, suspending enforcement, suspending insurance contributions and subsidising rent or housing. All of this concerns those who have proved to be affected by the fires and, of course, the citizens of Elijah. In my dentext I shall refer more extensively to Elias and the State Aid Fund and the support measures for farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u76	Minister, I know that you are very consistent and typical in the parliamentary work, but you will allow me to tell you that in your prototype you have not answered anyone, but none of the questions I have made orally and in writing made my timely question. That is the first point. The second is that you, too, understand - and I think the logic demands this - that, in the question I have tabled, I would expect the Secretary-General to answer me here with the Prime Minister, Mr Triantopoulos, in which, on the basis of the appointment FEK I have been given State aid to cover emergency needs and damage, protection and rehabilitation of ecosystems, and the responsibility of the flooding projects, that is to say, all the planning of reconstruction. And I ask the government through you: why does Mr Triantopoulos not come to answer questions relating to his authority? And what are his responsibilities? Does he not want to answer difficult questions? Would the state finally not be accountable, Minister, to the House, but only to Maximos? Is that the beginning we're going to adopt here today at the National Representation? Could he give us answers about how the funds are made available? They shall refer to a ministerial decision. And you said nothing today, with what model and how the money will be given to the State Aid Fund and distributed. And I'm telling you again why the memories of management are fresh - the dismantling of Molyviat's money. He could say something about the sense of injustice to the professionals of Ancient Olympia, the Tower, I could add to the Municipality of Gortini, who see measures for firefighters that concern them, but they see horizontal measures for some municipalities, you say, they will not suffer the consequences of natural disasters - economic productive and all sorts - and that is what is limited to the two municipalities in Evia. Because there is a series of ministerial decisions that apply horizontal measures only to these two municipalities. I have them all here, Minister, and, with the exception of paying certain debts, all the others are for the two municipalities of Evia, and this injustice must be lifted. Is that what we call it? Didn't the visit of the President of the Hellenic Republic to Elias ten days ago that went to firefighting villages and found the size of the disaster? Why do we not have a suspension of credit and auction obligations for all the residents of these municipalities who are firefighting with a large proportion of natural disaster? Why don't we have insurance contributions? Why don't we get a discharge from HISBIA there? Why don't we have no return of the deposit back? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. You have not answered to me when the Government intends to announce the Reconstruction Committee in Elias and whether local bodies will be involved, so that it can be effective. No answer to my question about lost agricultural income and to what horizons these people will be able to cover their basic incomes, a basic means of survival. The government has not said anything today, except that the Prime Minister is saying about precarious work, about herbal capital which has not been declared to the IACC and, of course, about relief and support measures for the operations of the firefighting municipalities that will suffer the consequences of natural disaster. Today I was called by the President of the Commercial Association of Ancient Olympia. The man is desperate. They lost all summer...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u77	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u78	I shall conclude, Mr President, ten seconds. ...and await measures of support and relief, as in the Tower, as in the Municipality of Gortynia, as in all municipalities: no return of part of the return, horizontal suspension of credit obligations...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u80	...and - Mr President, I think that you too are advocating a specific liquidity programme with a refundable advance, up to 70%, so that these businesses can stay alive. I am therefore waiting, Minister, for your denunciation to tell us specific questions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u81	Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u82	Mr. colleague, the Regional Unit of Elias falls within the scope of the relevant CYPD, which provides housing assistance of 80% through free state aid and 20% through interest-free loan with the Greek State guarantee for the reconstruction or repair of the buildings damaged by the fires. It is foreseen that in cases where significant and extensive damage is observed in a large number of enterprises or in the size of the disaster, by decision of the Minister of Finance, an advance may be granted against the grant. However, I should like to inform you that to date there have been no centralised statements from the region responsible, so that the competent authority can make grant decisions for the affected enterprises. As soon as this is done, all the relevant procedures will be initiated. As far as the State Aid Fund is concerned, the State Aid Fund - as you know - was established by Article 14 of Law 4797/2021. The purpose of the fund is to finance programmes and actions to support and strengthen natural disasters. By the recent Act of Legislative content of 13 August, the objectives of the Fund were included in the financing of rehabilitation actions for all fire-fighting areas, including Elias. The Act provides that, until the Fund is in operation, the State Aid Account will be managed and supervised by the Minister of Finance. This means that the disbursements will be made following a recommendation from the Governmental Committee on State Aid, which was set up and set up by an act of the Ministerial Council. This Committee shall be responsible, inter alia, for identifying state aid measures made up of the Secretary-General of all the Ministries concerned, as well as the President of the ELGA. I now come to support measures for farmers in fire-fighting areas such as Elias. In the forthcoming amendment to the Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020, in the context of the transitional period 2021-2022, provision will be made for a number of measures such as: Firstly, the activation of measure 5.2: ‘Recovery investments in agricultural capital, plant, animal and fixed assets from natural phenomena, adverse weather conditions and catastrophic events’. Through the activation of this measure there will be support for producers to restore the production potential of their farms. I am referring to agricultural crops, livestock and infrastructure. Secondly, the increased moleculation of candidates in the improvement plans in the affected pistol areas and the increased moleculation of candidates for young farmers in improvements in the affected pistol areas. Thirdly, speeding up payments to beneficiaries located in affected areas for all measures under the Rural Development Programme. Fourthly, firefighting farms and manufacturing enterprises will be able to benefit directly from the actions of the Rural Development Guarantee Fund, with a budget of 480 million, through investment loans and working capital. In any case, our Government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, evaluates the data and will not hesitate to design and implement, if necessary, additional means of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u83	Minister, you should know that the same thing exists in Arcadia. In other words, there is an unequal treatment between regions in Euboea and other regions. As far as what my colleague said to you, we have told you a hundred times. We have told you that in Evia the returnee is not returning, while in Arcadia and Elia he is returning. How is that possible? Aren't they businessmen? Didn't their operations burn? In other words, Mr Minister, as regards a mill in which 80% -90% of production, as man has told us, is better to burn it down than to have the oil mill and not to produce it. So, basically, we understand that this process needs to be completed, as we understand your role. But, on the other hand, how much is this going to go about, the one region that was burnt to other criteria and the other region having different criteria? It can't be done, Minister! Excuse me, but I repeat that I will ask again a question. However, I think you can transfer it and solve it. And I'll tell you something else. In the areas of Elijah and Arcadia, these enterprises with the repayable advance are not a huge number. It's important, but it's not huge. You need to see it and you need to see it immediately. It's a matter of justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u84	It's unfair, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u85	It's a matter of justice! We all understand that there has been a great disaster in the county in Evia. But does that mean the other guy who was destroyed and burned in Arcadia won't get her? Doesn't he have the same right? Minister, I think you should see this. I think next time, because we are going to ask you a question again, you should have better news and news about justice, equal treatment and equality of opportunity. We continue with the third with number 997/30-8-2021 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "To cancel the permit for quarrying in the mountainous volume of Lailia in the Regional Unit of Serres". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we'll be moving a little north. We're going to Serres, and that's where we're going to meet a beautiful mountain with an amazing forest. We're talking about the Stress of Serres. So this wonderful place is now seriously talking about quarrying. Yeah, well listened. He's talking about running a quarry. It is the third time in the last thirty years that this is happening and this time things are also serious, because a study of environmental conditions for the establishment and operation of granite quarry on a public forest of about 100 thousand square meters - listen to the best - within an area of "NATURA 2000" in the Hersos area of the local community of Achladochori of the Municipality of Sintic in the Regional Unit of Serres, etc. It's the third time, as I told you. The first time it was attempted in 1991. The mobilisations of the people of the region prevented it. Works again in 2007. Also, popular mobilization prevents it. Now is the third time in the last thirty years, i.e. repeating the attempt every fifteen years to establish a quarry on such a beautiful mountain. It's like we're going to do a quarry in Lycabetto, if anyone could parallel it! In any case, this cannot, of course, be accepted. This attempt cannot be carried out. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We would also like to see the government responsible here, which, of course, also has the ultimate responsibility for everything that is going on in our country. Unless the government agrees. We are anxious to hear the official view of the government on this matter. In short, we ask you, Minister, what you will do to stop any licensing action now. All pens down and cancel once and for all the license to operate such a quarry on this mountain, in Lailia. Moreover, since you are also a competent Minister for the Environment, what will you do to shield this wonderful mountain tumor and protect it as much as possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u87	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, there can be no development perspective in a country unless the necessary measures are taken to protect the environment effectively. It is a critical equation every time and is judged on every occasion by all the issues that are presented before us. That is why we are promoting investment projects and implementing best practices, which we are reducing - even avoiding - potential effects on nature and biodiversity, thereby ensuring the harmonious coexistence of humans with the natural environment. In the current legislation, it is clear what is allowed and what is prohibited, depending on the protection zone. You referred earlier to an NATURA area in which a region belongs. It is also clear that the authorisation procedure should be followed in any case. With regard to the authorisation procedure for marble and natural stone quarries on public land, this is a fully decentralised procedure in accordance with Latto law, Law 4512/2018 and the new institutional framework for the exercise of economic activity and other provisions, namely Law 4442/2016. The competent body for the approval of research work, as well as for the approval of the holding, is the relevant decentralised administration and in this particular case, the Decentralised administration of Macedonia - Thrace. The Ministry of Environment and Energy, and in particular the Directorate-General for Minerals for First Materials, only approves the technical study on the technical details of the project. This technical study is a prerequisite for the licensing and finally the operation of the quarries under the relevant decentralised administration. Prior to the submission of this technical study, research and environmental authorisations of the quartz project should be carried out through the approval of the environmental study and the determination of the environmental conditions of the quartz activity in accordance with the applicable regime, Article 53 n.4512/2018. At this point I would like to point out to you that the environmental licensing of quartz mining activities is a discrete licensing procedure which - and this is to keep it - is before the procedure for the notification of the permit of the exploitation of quartz minerals in accordance with and according to No. 3. 63/2021 Opinion of the Legal Board of the State. I'll come back to my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u90	On the basis of the Minister's replies, I think our fears and fears of the people of the region are confirmed. I think you will not disagree with me, Minister, if I tell you that the legal framework, the institutional framework for the operation of such activities you put it, the governments put it, it is a political framework, and your government voted for a relevant anti-environmental framework last year, we say, law. But it is not there. You tried to dismiss your own government responsibility to transfer it to the Decentralised Command, he says, Macedonia - Thrace. Let me ask you, Mr Minister, this is the following: is this administration elected or is it appointed by governments every time? You appointed her to be decentralized. So the responsibility lies entirely with you for what is going to happen, for this environmental crime that is going to take place in this area, and I am very sorry that you have not clearly said that this latitude activity, a latitude activity of granite and not marble, which has even radioactive radiation, as the University of Ioannina points out, and of course a latitude and a wound to the mountain which the people of the region are denounced and aggregating regardless of political position. This is reflected in institutional decisions, such as the municipal council, for example, of the Municipality of Serres opposing. I will submit it to the Provincial and Municipality Council of the Municipality of Sidirokastro, where all the parties unanimously agree and oppose such an activity. And the best thing is that the public service itself is opposed, namely the Directorate for the Development and Environment of the Regional Unit of Serres. In particular, the Department of the Environment and the Water Economy gives a negative opinion on such an activity. They didn't all go crazy all of a sudden. All of these naturally love their place and want their place to continue to have such a beautiful mountain and not suddenly in this mountain a hundred thousand square meters to be transformed into a granite quarry, with incalculable consequences for both the flora and fauna of this mountain, but also for the quality of human life itself. As I have said, this is an environmental crime which is not in balance with any development perspective. There can be no development perspective when you're hurting, when you hurt the environment in which people live, and in any case it turns out that those tears that the government has recently spilled on the climate crisis are rather hypocritical because it does not hesitate to sign and agree to consent to such environmental crimes as what is going to happen to the Lailia of Serres. But you should know that the people of the region are already organizing. He won't let it go. Thousands are signatures that gather and you will find them in front of you and you and anyone who works, whether called a district or a decentralised administration, to set up such an environmental crime in such a beautiful forest as Lailias of Serres. As far as we are concerned, of course, we have brought the agony here to the House. We will continue to support the people of Sinica in these just demands.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u91	Thank you. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, first of all, I think that you also recognise the right and the obligation of the body responsible for taking responsibility for the decisions it takes. That is why there is also a decentralisation of competences for the activities that are being carried out. And I say again: every area that has competence and the right to approve is also responsible for what it decides. Of course, because you referred to the opinions of the negative municipalities and bodies, precisely because they are in the process of consulting, so consultation is taking place, all opinions and all aspects relating to the subject are heard and taken into account in the final decision. At this stage there is the issue. In response in particular to the authorisation of granite quarry to the mountainous volume of Lailia Serres, the following applies: in respect of mining activities, the Department of Environmental Licensing of the RIS is responsible for environmentally licensed projects and activities of Subcategory A1 of the fifth group of projects and activities: ‘Explosives and related activities’. In the current legislation, however, the specific work to which you refer in your question as granite quarry and due to the extent of some - 100 acres, you have also been mentioned - as described in the A2 Subcategory of the fifth group, entitled 'Industrial minerals, marbles and shale plates for less than a hundred acres'. Therefore, for the environmental assessment and licensing procedure of this project, the Ministry of Environment and Energy is not competent, the Department of Environmental Licensing, but is responsible for the Decentralised Management of Macedonia - Thrace and in particular the Department of Environment and Spatial Planning of Macedonia and at this point no question of assessment or consultation is pending for this project at the Department of Environmental Licensing of the RIS. For the exploitation of the granite quarry in the area of the Municipal Unit of Ahladochori, the Municipality of Sinticos, Serres, has been subjected to an environmental impact study with operator Ioannis Germenidis and environmental identity 2106556828. This activity, as you said, falls within the NATURA 1260007 code area, 'Vrodous-Lailia Mountains', 'Semes - Caves Wars Waters and Falls', and that is why - I conclude, Mr President - together with the environmental impact study, a specific ecological assessment issue has been submitted in accordance with Article 10 of Law 4014/2011. The submitted study has been transmitted to the legislative bodies and services for the relevant opinions. You referred to some of the negative ones. Following the gathering and evaluation of all these opinions, as well as the opinions submitted either in the electronic environmental register or in the Environmental and Spatial Planning Department of Macedonia - Thrace, the Environmental and Spatial Planning Directorate for the Decentralised Administration of Macedonia - Thrace will decide on this request for environmental authorisation. I want to tell you that submitting a request for any activity does not automatically mean getting approval. It is submitted to all the procedures, including consultation and expression of the opinion of all the institutions and other bodies in the region, and the one who, I say, decides, also has the responsibility to take into account, in accordance with the existing institutional framework, what is necessary to ensure that any decision to be taken is safe and justifiable. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u93	Thank you. We are now continuing with the third with number 7977/661/13-7-2021 question and requesting the submission of documents of the circle of petitions and questions by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject of ‘‘Magazia' to settle blue children, PPC and the DEDDIE?’ Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, this question was tabled on 13-7-2021 in writing and has not been answered within the timeframe imposed by the Rules of Procedure. That is the one question, Mr Secretary, why the question has not been answered in writing. The second is why you have come here today and not Mr Screkas, who has responsibility. That doesn't underestimate you at all. You understand that, I am not talking about personally, but the Minister for Energy is hiding today and hiding because we are discussing a crucial issue in energy, energy policy and energy costs. The whole of Greece sees that eventually, the salvation of PPC, which was proclaimed and proclaimed by Mr. Hadjidakis, Mr. Mitsotakis, is the unnecessary multiple increases, it is price manipulation, it is the shameful gain, it is the raves and it is also the ruffles. We see that the bills are increasingly expensive, but instead of having a PPC and a DEDDIE, which is the network of the middle-voltage, which will be the energy pillars of the country, we have "blue-chips" and in every possible way. Because, as you can see in the question - you will have read it and I would ask you to oppose it, if that is not the case - we have created positions of directors - dozens of positions of directors have been created in PPC and the DEDDIE - and indeed with low qualifications. Even without recognition of a degree, we have found a TEDO notice and we have said it in the House and I have tabled it - do not deny it - and finally, we have on the one hand increased the number of high-ranking executives and on the other, increased their remuneration. Literally, all Greece is "freezing", seeing the accounts in this period and at the same time, we have extra-real increases in positions of directors, which are more than the employees hired to PPC and the TEDO. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] I'll tell you the numbers, because anyway, I'll have the second place. I hear that PPC addresses were thirty and now PPC addresses were ninety. We learn that the directorates-general were seven and now they have been fourteen and are placed in the positions of director and assistant directors who are not from PPC. They are market-made, obviously with "blue" curriculum and without recognized degrees. Respectively, in the DEDDIE we have two new positions of Directors-General, five new addresses, two posts of assistance managers, who have no staff, but they help the Directors-General and the notice recently I told you about a post of director for the Business Analysis and Data Department, where unlike the decision of the CEO of the DEDDIE, the necessary elements are not the equivalent of the degree. You see you manage to clash even with decisions of your own executives. So we ask, Mr Secretary-General, how many were the positions of responsibility until June 2019 and how many have now been in PPC and in the DEDEFOP? We have asked you to give us how many were the positions of the Head of Division, the Sub-Government, the Director, the Director-General and the Deputy Directors. And I want you to tell us how much responsibility has been and how much has been done to tell us at the same time and what the remuneration of the positions of responsibility is. Because, as has emerged, after the Government of New Democracy, we have a misappropriation of the remuneration of directors. In particular, for the President and CEO, we see that PPC has decided to launch its remuneration at EUR 300,000 and recently, with a decision taken on over-performance of PPC - over-performance is the one where consumers now pay the huge bills that have a new increase of more than 50%, this is the over-performance, that all Greek consumers and industry and the domestic consumers pay very much - we see that the president is getting a new bonus and advising the 350,000 to 360,000 euros. It's six times the SYRIZA ruling period. So we ask how many positions of responsibility and how many pay are and I will come back next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Femello. The Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Nikolaos Tagaras for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I will try to answer what I can answer and know. Two years ago the “Public Power Corporation S.A.” faced a very serious risk of bankruptcy. Today it has been refined and is again a competitive and profitable business for the benefit of the national economy and consumers. It provides comprehensive and high quality services and products to its customers, thereby ensuring its profitable function, actively participating in economic development and social prosperity, always with respect to the environment. PPC S.A. is currently experiencing a period of reorganization, reform and modernisation at multiple levels. It develops into a sustainable energy force with very optimistic prospects and becomes an important factor for national development and for strengthening investment activity in the country. According to its new operational plan, among other things, it has set the following medium-term objectives: firstly, the effective implementation of the national commitments resulting from the Green Deal Agreement in the field of electricity production. That is why it speeds up the ligniteification and restoration of the respective mines and, at the same time, highlights renewable energy as the new dominant technology for energy production. Secondly, it promotes the digitisation and implementation of new technologies in all its areas of activity, seeking to reduce costs and increase revenues for its efficient and successful operation. Thirdly, it is attempting to extend and consolidate to new activities and products of added value by adopting a client-centric approach both in retail and in new business sectors, such as electricity, for example. In order to successfully implement the targeted reforms and modernise it, staff need appropriately trained in their work and familiarised with new technologies in order to be able to meet the challenges of the new digital age. The need for its organisational restructuring, the creation and addition of new structures, its staffing and its strengthening with appropriately trained workforce, where necessary, is imperative. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I don't know if you understood the timely question, or at least Mr. Screka's associates who gave you some information. You started your PPC reply that faced the risk of bankruptcy two years ago. If I remember correctly, two years ago we came out of a government four and a half years ago where PPC did not put a single euro increase on consumers and consumers throughout Greece see that in the last two years you have only increased and carved. It's not enough to raise PPC, but you've put up increases up to oil, because you've done a mess of energy market. Did you say PPC has become a client center? Yes, indeed. All PPC's customers are in shock with the prices they see because of you. The problem is not only that Greece now lacks a PPC that will be an energy pillar and will support the Greek economy, but that there are complaints that PPC has become a "magazaki" for "blue" children and "blue" executives and you are not answering it. Is it a client-centred fact that the price of energy is constantly increasing? Is it Century Century that we had a disgrace, that you were selling four times the price from wholesale in 2020? Is it customer centered that there is no tool for people in need and affected by the pandemic and you have not given any social tools to support these citizens, nor have you given any of the Greek businessmen? What's the client center? Are we kidding? Do you not know that all the media at this time, even those controlled by the Government of New Democracy, are referring to very large electricity increases? And you're telling us PPC's a client center? Rushteto center is PPC because there is a party held by the "blue kids". I mentioned the creation of dozens of addresses. Dozens of addresses with dozens of manager positions have been held in PPC, and what do you say? That you saved her from bankruptcy? How do you save a service from bankruptcy? When you create managers and recruit them on party criteria, is that a bailout? On the contrary, you lead to bankruptcy all Greek households and all Greek entrepreneurship because there is no businessman who is not affected. There is no small-scale, there is no craftsman, there is no dealer or hotel owner or catering shop that is not affected by these measures. We do not get the complete failure of the economic model you have for the pandemic, we have an extremely expensive current. We are champions in Europe. Now, don't tell me we've got exogenous factors, actually. Greece makes high scores at the marketing price, and that's because you've made the energy market wild. Furthermore, you are not ashamed to come and take tens of legs of neo-democrats, "blue children" and you are filled with PPC and TEDO with executives. To understand why we are talking, Mr President, because sometimes there are some journalists who write about it, I would like to tell you that the Regulatory Authority for Energy has reached a point and that I put the report - I think it 'CAPITAL' - is to cut a bonus of EUR 1 million. You have reached a point of requesting approval from the Energy Regulatory Authority to give additional bonuses to the HEDN strains. To what executives, Mr. Tagaras? In what they did not intend to clean the trees and we had "Medea", we had a drop of trees all over North Attica and you left tens of thousands of consumers without electricity for many days? More bonus than what we found? And that's why I want you to answer me, Mr. Tagaras. The post I put it in the Minutes. [[At this point SYRIZA Member Socrates Famelos submits for the minutes the above post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Your Energy Regulatory Authority cuts bonuses over the blue children, but did you not answer the basic question and the basic question is: How many managers were hired over New Democracy? I've filed complaints that the managers' positions have tripled. If it is true that you are taking staff without recognized diplomas, tell us what is the case with regard to the documentation of foreign language knowledge, because a lot is done within the administration of the TEN. Eventually it seems excellence is all to pay the cost and all PPC does is manipulate prices and hire blue children. So, Mr Tagaras, we want an answer and we have asked you a specific question, don't tell me other words to be loved. Citizens know that the SYRIZA government did not have a single euro increase in electricity, and now everyone is freezing when they get the bills because of the Mitsotakis Government, and that is clear. Leave the excuses! Tell us about the ruffles, though. That's why I'm asking you today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Femmel. Minister, you have three minutes to answer Mr Famello.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, as I mentioned in my protology, PPC is currently taking a development path through modernising and organising reform. Also, because of the national commitments resulting from the Europe Green Agreement to energy production, which need to be met over a certain period of time, a change of strategy and the creation of new structures has been necessary. In this context, there were new positions of responsibility both at the level of the directors and the directors-general, in the field of electricity movement, digital transformation, marketing and products. As regards the annual regular and variable remuneration, as well as the other benefits of PPC S.A. executives, from the grade of the principal of the main organic grade to the degree of the director, as well as the members of the board of directors, these refer to the remuneration policy approved by the general shareholders meeting on June 4, 2021, which is posted on the company’s website. With regard to staff payroll at all hierarchy levels up to the CEO, the cost for 2018 was EUR 50,8 million, for 2019 was EUR 47 million, and for 2020 the corresponding cost was reduced to EUR 43,7 million. The required and desirable qualifications according to the characteristics of each post shall also be indicated in each contract notice. It is clear that the candidate selected to serve the post to which the notice relates will in any case fulfil the requirements of the qualifications required, as indicated in the text of the notice. The current government managed by taking targeted measures to support and reorganise the Public Power Corporation S.A. To overcome, as we have said, the difficult situation and today we are talking about a, essentially, new, profitable company that can meet the challenges of the modern and highly competitive economic and regulatory environment and manage the high requirements and increasing needs of the consumer. And I would like to say that the period we are going through is a period of transition in terms of the productive model of energy production, which you know as you have been through this ministry and have knowledge of conditions and requirements. We are, in fact, in a transition that poses many dangers and needs attention and readiness from all of us. This transition from a model of production that created problems in the environment - and results have been achieved, so there is also the climate crisis, to which you referred before - has made us much faster to go to a change in the production model, precisely to reduce the risks of the climate crisis and to protect the environment. This transition, which arises due to the many players - let me say - who enter the energy market, needs much attention and until it balances up will have vibration. You spoke before you increased. Indeed, there are increases in many products, increases that we all see come and are not to anyone pleasant, which is the result of the energy crisis and increases in the cost of oil, gas, which are too great but also the cost of raw materials. I would like to say, however, that there is also this situation that is evolving with the pandemic, which we may have focused only on and protection against it, but it also has other parameters that are currently unfolding. That is why we need vigilance - the responsibility, of course, is, of course, the government which exercises power - and the part to which you have referred. To this end, you can be sure that there will be whatever measures they need, and for which the Prime Minister will also be announced, that all this development will be overshadowed in terms of price increases. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too. At this point I would like to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: 'Strengthening transparency and accountability to state institutions, restoring the integrity of the Single Mobility System and other provisions'. I would like to mention that the sixth question, number 992/30-8-2021, topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'The Government must ensure the preservation of labour lawfulness and the prevention of collective redundancies in the Kavala Phosphoric Fertilizers industry', and the second with number 991/30-8-2021, a second question by MP Boeotia of the Change Movement, Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'The society of Boeotia requires clear answers about what is to be done with the General Hospital of Thevas', will not be discussed because of Mr. Also, the fourth question under number 988/30-8-2021, first question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: ‘What became the sealed boxes from the Tatoi estate after the catastrophic fire on 5 August?’ It will not be discussed because of an impediment to the honourable Member. Now will the fourth question be discussed under number 8375-30-7-2021 of the SYRIZA Members' circle of references - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Will the jobs and working conditions be ensured in the public interest, selling the percentage of the public in the Infrastructure?' Here, Mr. Famelle, you have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. For reasons of parliamentary ethics and the Minutes, please note that, since the previous question, the application for documents, which Mr Tagaras has not received, was also made, I would inform the Bureau that we are asking, in accordance with Rule 134(2), for the government to bring these documents to a question in Parliament as a whole. As far as the next question is concerned, why are we not even following the parliamentary rule, and I would like to say it, Mr President, that we have another question for strange supplies of sanitary material, which is seven months late and which are hidden, not here in plenary. It is submitted twice to the Bureau. I'm telling you personally, even though it's not your responsibility. With its question of 30 July, which was not answered in writing, Mr Tagaras, we have this, while seeing the results of the accuracy due to the immunity brought by the release of cards into the energy market by Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Hatzidakis, the same deadlock, absurd and disastrous practice you are pursuing in the natural gas network. In this regard, for gas, you sell the whole natural gas network without a Memorandum commitment to a owner, violating all the rules of free competition and creating a monopoly so that Greece depends on a private person for the whole gas network. And then in the next crisis of accuracy you will come to tell us: 'We cannot, the prices that are created by the market'. Here's the results! This is who breaks up competition on the market and creates these results, dissolves transparency, dissolves public control, dissolves the public interest. A right-wing government with far-right ministers! Here, then, you have a specific question: How will jobs be ensured in the irrational and disastrous privatisation of the infrastructure PPA? The government's decision to sell the whole network to a private investor is disastrous, it is obvious. However, there is no guarantee of workers. And I wonder why, even so, you could not make a written answer. We have asked you for a written answer so that the workers can also have a paper, somewhere that promises that there is a government, that there is a political will in that country. And it's not just a political will to take all the individuals and settle your ruffles. We ask you, then, very specifically: For the staff of the Attica Distribution Company, the Thessaloniki, Thessaly and the TENA, who currently have gas networks under their supervision, what is the government's commitment to safeguarding jobs, working conditions and labour rights, and the government's commitment to remain in their jobs and will not start to go from one end of Greece to the other with the individual who will receive the network? At least that's why you can give us an answer? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Famele. The question will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Here, Mr Tagaras, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, we are at the final straight ahead of the process of a particularly important deprivation in the field of energy, the Public Gas Infrastructure Company S.A. With its completion we increase state revenues and contribute decisively to the creation of a new productive and developmental economy model in our country, which is based on high-value products and services. With the sale of the Infrastructure PPA, as is the case with other privatizations, not only are the Greek economy supported, but many benefits are achieved for society at local and national level, as well as more and more quality jobs are created. The creation of new and more quality jobs with the sale of the percentage of PPA infrastructure does not jeopardise existing jobs, which are also protected by Greek legislation, as well as by the law of the European Union in case of transfer of ownership of the shares. In this context, those workers who are currently covered by collective labour agreements will continue to be covered as the change in ownership does not affect their validity. At this point I would like to stress that especially until the tender for the development of the S.A. Infrastructures project is completed. We have ensured that the company continues to operate unreservedly and according to its purpose. Therefore, there will be no change in labour relations during the transitional period from the signature of the contracts until the transaction is completed and the transfer of the shares to the new shareholder of Infrastructure SA. This is in fact guaranteed in writing in individual terms in the sale plan, which the Infrastructure Group has audited and which both interested investors know and accepted. However, it is certainly not something that has happened in the past, and it certainly cannot be done today, because this would violate the fundamental rules of the international labour conventions that our country has ratified and would question the institutionalized autonomy of the social partners in the collective bargaining. I shall return to my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u105	Be well, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Famelos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. I am particularly impressed by the epithet of your answer. You told us that the collective agreement was not enforceable. First of all, you're right. We are talking about the Mitsotakis Government, which recently with Mr Hatzidakis is abolishing collective agreements anyway. It would be strange to ask a government that abolishes collective agreements and labour rights, abolishes eight hours, privatises insurance, ask it to observe a basic rule of labour law and supports the social function of collective agreements. Unreasonable, you'll tell me. And yet I see here Article 80l of the law passed by the SYRIZA Government on 9 March 2019 which said that it defends itself by law in the transition to the infrastructures and collective agreements and jobs. And you're telling us it's not possible? But by law, we did. Because there has been the creation of the Infrastructure PPA by our government. You didn't vote for this law, because you want to privatize it now. In this law, therefore, in Article 80l and paragraph 3, it states: “All working conditions applicable under an individual or operational collective agreement also apply to the infrastructure DPAA,” the new company that would be created. And paragraph 5 states: ‘The staff to be employed in the FMC cannot be fired’. It's written. So the SYRIZA government ensured both collective agreements and jobs. And you voted against this article at the time. And it must have been a law, I think, recently by Mr Hatzidakis when he was still in the Ministry of the Environment and Energy - when the strand went through - and he abolished it. We ask you in particular: will we defend the workers who have done their utmost to expand the gas network? The President-in-Office and my colleague here know that, in 2015-2019, natural gas went to Lagada, Malgara in Kuffalo, Nanossis, Trilophus, Hortia, to all that had not been when the New Democracy Government and now have not gone to new networks. But I ask you, for those workers who took the network everywhere, will we support them? We'll be with you if you decide to support the workers, all the parties, all the parties. Should we support workers not being fired and at least having employment rights? Do not hide behind the general claim that the employees are covered by the general framework. I showed you a specific law of SYRIZA. When you're next to the worker, you prove it by law. You are? Are you only with the one who gets the network, one across Greece? And to go to this second comment. I heard that the Greek economy will be strengthened by selling the natural gas network. In other words, a private monopoly will judge from now on where the network will be expanded on the basis of its profits alone, neither the climate change nor the needs of the local craft industry, nor the needs of local trade, nor the needs of local housing, nor the needs of the municipalities. And you say this is for the benefit of a Greek economy? It is a clear example of how unfair New Democracy is. It will benefit one who will take the network to Greece and will be at the expense of all the others. All consumers will be damaged. Firstly, because they will depend on expanding gas from one private person and his profits, and secondly because they will pay compulsory fees to one private person and they will not be able to choose anyone else. No competition, a private operator throughout the gas network. Is that your view of the economy and the service of the citizens? To the detriment of Mr Tagaras, the Greek economy is the sale of the natural gas network. You had such plans in the Samara government - Venizelou, and we stopped them, we overthrown them. You were committed to selling the entire electricity grid and the whole gas network even the main pipelines and we overthrown all this. And it bothers you so much. And now without a memorandum you come and sell or try again to sell all the natural gas and electricity networks and leave the workers unprotected. I am looking forward to your express commitment to staying on jobs and to respecting conventions. Please, at least that!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Felle. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, an observation at first. First of all, you did not say that there were collective agreements, but that the collective agreements, you said, are not allowed. As far as PPC is concerned, Mr. colleague, you know very well and better from me that PPC has reached a step before bankruptcy as it did, and if there were no changes then things would be tragic. The first steps of operation of the new structures created show the results. We still have work to do and there is a lot to be done, and it takes care until the system becomes normal. With regard in particular to the issue of the Attica Gas Distribution Company, I would like to say that on 17 February 2020 the operational collective labour agreement for the period 2020-2021 was signed between the company and the trade unions. The terms of this operational collective agreement are the same and in some cases sufficiently improved in relation to the terms of the operational collective labour agreement in force in 2018. The management of the company and the association of workers within the framework of their cooperation have already started negotiations on the renewal of the current operational collective labour agreement. I would point out at this point that the increased construction object, which provides for the company's approved five-year development plan, makes it necessary to maintain existing executives in their positions and to recruit young people to ensure the smooth continuation of the construction work and the profitable operation of the Attica Gas Distribution Company. Also, the development programmes adopted by the companies in the group, which have been approved by the Energy Regulatory Authority, are binding obligations which provide for very significant investments for already existing networks and for new areas. So that companies will be able to meet their commitments, they will have to make the most of the staff who are already working and which, because of their expertise and experience, is difficult to replace, but they must also create a number of new jobs. Mr Colleagues, the gas market in Greece is completely liberalized by all kinds of monopolies, and so it will continue to be after the tender has been completed in the interest of the Greek consumer. This is now confirmed by the participation of a large number of individuals in all natural gas activities of distribution, marketing and transport. The completion of the competitive process for the privatization of the infrastructure PPA will bring the maximum benefits to the Greek society without any risk to the working relationships of the group's staff. The Government is implementing policies aimed at strengthening the green economy and sustainable development, but always in the interest of the benefits of returning to citizens again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Tagaras. We move to the eighth, with number 1009/30-8-2021, a topical question for the second cycle of SYRIZA's MP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Christos Giannoulis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Direct need to replace the forest fire-fighting rings in the forest of Shah Sou". Mr. Giannoulis, good evening, good week, you have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to begin by expressing my sympathy to the New Democracy Parliamentary Group for the fact that, from a hundred and fifty-eight members, no one was found to understand the newly established Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection. And since I know that Mr Amyras has a sense of humor, I imagine he will agree that if he was from the People's Orthodox Alert he may have had luck in this popular unorthodox reform.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Giannoulis, let's go to the question. It's timely.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u112	Of course, Mr President. Well, I didn't mention it at random - you know - for the relocations that slow the New Democracy Government to deal with the reality. The subject of the question is an dimension of the protection of the Seichuan forest, where there is an X-ray, Mr President-in-Office, of the state of service. I am making a very brief description and retrospective, because, you know, since July 2020, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has been trying - without receiving any answers from the Ministry of the Environment or someone who says it is competent - to protect an important lung of the second largest city, Thessaloniki. Instead, we had a study of the forest costing 700,000 euros, while you signed the funding for just 65,000 euros and then, when the snakes lived, when they saw what was happening in the rest of Greece, the responsible - unauthorized State Secretary for Civil Protection - came by approving a sum of EUR 1,000,000 for the precautionary, for the protection of the forest of Shah Sou, the cleansing and all of this. I would like to begin by saying that you are a government which will manage the Recovery Fund to a certain extent, where, in the tens of millions of people, in the matter of civil protection - today you have also completed the relocation of the new Minister - there is not even one euro to prevent, Mr President, that is the source of the solution to the problem. It's for the purchase of aircraft, it's for a series of interventions. There is no 1 euro for forestry and prevention for civil protection. Something like this also happens with the infrastructures of the Seichu district forest, where on the basis of the decentralised administration document, published in a response from SYRIZA MPs, you think there are water tanks, fire rings and the necessary infrastructure to save the evil. Fortunately - I'm starting to think there's an overcrowded, supernatural force - this year the Sheikh Sue wasn't burned. Thank God that happened! But this makes us obligated to speak the language of the truth about what the picture is today in Shahik Sou and not what the Communicationists of the Mitsotakis Government are pictured. I'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Giannoulis. The Secretary of State for Environment and Energy, George Amyras, will answer. Mr. Amyras, good evening, good week. You have three minutes. We both beat wood for Sheich Sue. Sheich Sue and our eyes. Not only Shahih Su, but mostly Shahih Su.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u114	You are right, Mr President. Good evening, good week. My dear colleague, Mr Giannoulis, of course, humor unites us to a certain extent, and I imagine that if you were elected to the previous House, it was certain that you would not take the Ministry. Do you know why? Because then your ruling party was embraced with the ANELs. The ANELs ruled too much. I'll forget here how many bills the SYRIZA government withdrew, why did the ANELs have a different view? Forget the Ministries received by the ANEL MPs? So that's how I answer your sense of humor with mine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u115	I'll tell you the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u116	Yes, Mr. President. You're right. So I come directly to my answer, Mr Giannoulis. First of all, I should like to give some evidence which is undeniable. You said that the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr. Hardalias alone, decided, without any special assistance or involvement of the other co-legislative ministries, to finance fire protection and prevention projects in Sheikh Soo, over 1,000,000 euros. You're wrong. Mr Hardalias or the Ministry of Civil Protection today did not do so alone, then General Secretariat. This happened in cooperation with us, the Ministry of the Environment, that is. Together we had gone with Mr. Chardalion in Shah Soo. Together we had created the plans for fire protection and prevention, which - beating wood - fortunately, as we said with your dear and short-sighted, partly and partly my own, Vice-President of Parliament, have taken place. So let us acknowledge that we have also given as a government money for the fire protection and the prevention and management of the Sehik forest and that this has been done in cooperation with all the relevant ministries. One more thing. You said about the Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection now - and with the opportunity to wish a good mandate and a successful term of office for both Mr Stylianides and Mr Tournah - that there is no money for prevention and management studies and for their anti-nuclear protection from the Ministry of the Environment. You may not know - and that is why you said - that they run two programmes from the Ministry of the Environment, through the so-called Agricultural Development Programmes, sub-measures 8.3 and 8.4 where one of them has to do with forest management studies of EUR 80,000, 000, which we started long before the fires at the beginning of the year and another EUR 80,000, 000, for their immunity. Unfortunately, Mr President, it is the first time after too many decades that the country - unfortunately it is going to be the first time - will fortunately have management studies on its forests. So let us know what the forests are on the verge, where the fuel is packed, how we will lighten them, how we will make local communities use of this forest wealth, first of all, for the benefit of forests and, of course, of local economies. Therefore, do not say that there is no money and we have received no provision to prevent forest protection. Another measure that we have taken, Mr Giannoulis, and I would like to see you put on this, is the transport of forest services which belonged to the Directorates-General of the seven decentralised administrations of the country to the Ministry of the Environment, to stop this multi-spersity of competence, where nothing has happened at the end of the day. Now you will have a man, a political leadership, and you will control her and ask her why and if she does her job well to say that something is going on in this country. Because it is not a personal "success" of anyone who fails, it is a reflection of the situation of society and the country. For the Shahih Sue to answer my dentistry, as for the cranes, the restrainers and the tanks. I am pleased, of course, that you have some distances from the claim that the crabs are old and so on. You're talking about the questionable tanks if they have water. I'll take it. Journalically you're impeccable, as well as tank number 5 that's probably empty. I like you to keep a distance, because I have the evidence that proves exactly the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u117	Thank you too, Minister. Mr. Giannoulis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Amyras, first of all, I need to fix something. I don't see on the benches right or left, or the People's Orthodox Alert or the Independent Greeks. So the translation to which I referred did not have an active parliamentary dimension, it makes it even worse. In any case, that is not what we are talking about. I hope that, at some point, more skilled executives will emerge from the reservoir and uterus of the New Democracy. You admitted that what happened with Mr Hardalia if I understood it well has your consent and signature.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u119	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u120	Therefore, you must prove to the Greek citizens and especially to the inhabitants of Thessaloniki how the forest service is done three months earlier to ask the relevant Ministry for the cleansing of about twenty thousand acres, it is the area of Sheikh Sou and it is this request that the amount of EUR 65,000 is met and in two months will come to Mr Hardalias and approve, as you say, with your consent or with your help the EUR 1,000,000 to clean up three thousand acres. It's a simple and reasonable match. Let me explain why. Why, obviously, the delegation to a private person - I am not considering how it was done - could not cover the standard set by the forestry service, or I do not know what might have been involved in the fact that you could not satisfy the forest's request with absolute specialisation and documentation of around EUR 700,000 and you only gave EUR 65 000 to EUR 70,000. And in two months' time, where you yourself said that budgetaryly we cannot cover it, it was 1 000 euros, and if it were in the right direction to fully meet the needs of forest protection and cleaning, I would say good! But now that there is evidence of the self-faced testimony of the people who live in the forest and who refuse to meet both you and self-government in Thessaloniki. I'm opening parentheses. You will know that the decentralized administration, the Greek state, the state, the final state, became laughing at the public dialogue that developed with the mayors of the region and with local players. We have reached a point of exchanging arrows and charges that go beyond the most imaginable political script writer. But I shall return to the question of infrastructure quality, because what unites us, Mr Amyras - and I will not question, until the opposite is proved, you are on the way to creating a lot of misconception, not you personally - is the difference between reality and virtual reality. I present these images in the Minutes of the House. I want you as George Amyras to see them and if at the end of this debate you tell me that they are sufficient, I am sorry. They're the images of the fire hydrants, Mr. President, who are in a terrible state. I also have to submit a text again from the decentralised administration, where it describes everything well, that water tanks are filled with, that all the parallel infrastructure is fine. But people who live and breathe and protect this mountain and do not allow them to serve the empty firearms, where they will get the first call for the first spark, in order not to make the spark fire, these people are excluded from every meeting with you. They are the thousands of runners and walkers of Sheikh Sue who have made racing requests to be accepted by a representative of this state of staff and no one met them! The photos are presumption of what we did before our political life. You know very well what a presumption is. I raise as a challenge, a question and anguish: If the image of the infrastructures in fireworks, it is the tanks which are reflected by today's photographs, I am sorry. This is another great lie of your government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Giannoulis. Here, Mr. Amyras, three minutes for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr Giannoulis, I am delighted and very careful to see the photos and what you are tabling - and not a debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u123	Let me give them to you in person to see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u124	I think you should first submit them to the Minutes. Do as you should, in the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Giannoulis, as you must, please testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u126	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u127	Of course, Mr Giannoulis, if you will, please answer me with a node, so as not to disturb the process, to understand. Are you claiming that cranes are not working or that water tanks are empty?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u128	I claim that many of them do not work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u129	So you say that too many of them do not work. Because the picture is different, as far as the findings of the Fire Service are concerned. So the Fire Service informed us - because we of course immediately contacted the Firehouse in order to really know whether or not the cases you mentioned have been in force since 1997, that these pigs have been established - that we have sixty-five of the sixty-eight cranes, Mr President, who were placed in the two years 2006-2007 and the other three very recently, in the olive oil region near the dwellings. That's the first. The second thing we care about, Mr President, is that the water tanks located in the woods of Sheikh Suo have water or do they not have water? That's a big question. Mr. Giannoulis - as I understand it - says they probably have no water - if I understand correctly. You were very careful about the wording. I do not understand if you say they are empty or loaded or the water tanks are not working properly. I don't understand, but it doesn't matter. What matters is that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u130	Minister, you rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u131	Of course, but you are doing one - within introductory terms - of a complaint that I have to know beforehand what you are saying about what you are accusing us of. Do they have or don't they have water? So I say to you that there are water tanks and those in the Korydalou and Black Lofus areas, Mr President, the thousands of cubic metres and the corresponding water tanks with a 100 cubic metres pumping station in the centre of the forest, in the area of the Thousand Trees - Extreme. Also, the water tank in the Panorama Olives region operates and water works, like the four water tanks, Mr. President, the seventy-five cubic meters in the locations Theotokou Monastery, Philippeio, Krioneri and Polyzova - Estate Metropolitan. Also, the water supply network is operating, controlled and tested on the basis of your own question - and very well you have made and submitted this topical because it has to work, pine needles on the skin to better circulate the blood and we are all more active and disobedient in our duties - Mr President, thirty-three miles long and five hundred meters long, which was built in the two years 2006-2007. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] But I don't want to tire you with most of it. Of course, I can tell you specifically about the anti-nuclear supply network, which is very important. The water can circulate in the pipes in case, beating wood - and beating again! - Is something wrong? So the water is provided, as you know, by the EYATH and automatically by drilling, the tank is filled with the location of the Monastery of Theotokos, which is a very important monastery - you, Mr President, are surely aware of this monastery - and the movement of the water also works unintentionally within the network and safely, because the water supply in the cranes, in these sixty-eight cranes, Mr President, is guaranteed by the hydrostatic pressure, due to an altitude of difference. These are verified. Our publicly and responsibly reports the headquarters of the Fire Service, as well as the decentralised administration we have addressed. However, our services have also sat down and checked them, to make sure that they do. So what I mean to say is to focus on individual issues of the Shahih Soo forest, such as the fact that the forest, for example, is ageing and diseased, which we all know. So we need to see what we're going to do. So what we are going to do is answer that, Mr Giannoulis and Mr President-in-Office. We joined the Recovery and Resilience Fund with a budget of EUR 30 million exclusively for Shahih Sou, to save the forest, rejuvenate it, heal it, and of course also for some perimeter parks and city of Thessaloniki to ensure the quality of life of the inhabitants. I shall conclude, Mr President. I know I've taken a lot of time and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u132	Please, it's quite interesting. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u133	As far as pyres are concerned, therefore, because you say that pyres are empty, Mr Giannoulis, there is an act of legislation that we have signed and voted here in the House, which says that when we have a fire risk of '3' and above, all the parks are empty and all the parks are banned from entering the national parks and the NATURA areas. So when we have a '4 hazard level in the woods of the In the firearms, especially in these cases of danger, they go immediately and volunteers and forest guards and people of fire and police when we have a fire risk indicator "3" or above. Some of our fellow citizens in Thessaloniki might have seen the licensed firearms when the risk level was low and put their thoughts on the ground and considered that this is generally the case. It's not true, and I'm categorical about that. And I conclude by saying that we will never rest, neither as a government nor as a government nor as a opposition, Mr President, from your responsible position and especially from the MP of Thessaloniki, nor will we feel free and sure about forest protection. We lived this year with the catastrophic fires of August. We have seen that where there were errors and weaknesses of coordination, we must take drastic decisions and do so. But, above all, I would like to say - and I shall end, Mr President, and apologise for the time I have taken, and I thank you for your tolerance - that we in the Ministry of the Environment have set the '1' rule and priority for prevention. As I told you, for the first time in Greece after many decades, there will finally be management studies on our forests so that we know what production is, what the dangers are, what the risks are, what we have to safeguard at all costs. That is what we will do with the help of local societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Minister. I don't know what you're gonna do, what your plan is, but don't just put pine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, could I say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u136	No, Mr. Giannoulis, please. Before we go to the next question, I would like to tell you: we will not be discussing the first question because of lack of competence, the first under number 1005/30-8-2021, the first time in the first cycle of the Parliamentary Pella of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jackis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Manufacture of the Almopia (Kales) dam'. The fourth question, with number 989/30-8-2021, is not discussed in consultation with MP B2' Western Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Requirement of the voluntary movement of fire extinguishing and misuse of the voluntary fire extinguishers of the Firehouse", as well as the seventh with number 990/30-8-2021, a top second question by MP B2' West Athens Sector Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: “From Eye to Evia. The refusal to implement the proposals of the Gondamer finding on the restructuring of forest fire-fighting is criminalised." We will now proceed to the debate of the ninth under number 999/30-8-2021 on a topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Priority and convenience of farmers, farmers and small groups of producers, as well as small businessmen, oil yards, cheese shops, at the installation of small photovoltaics (up to 500 KW) for the acquisition of a permanent fixed alternative income in the fire-fighting areas". Here, Mr. Vice President, you have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think you've been informed about the question. You know the disasters that have occurred not only in Arcadia, Elias and Evia, but also in many other areas. I think that in these areas, and especially in the areas where there are farmers, small groups of producers, who are, in particular, young people and have destroyed their jobs - oilseedlers and cheese farmers - for the next few years, you have to give them something to keep these people in their areas. We are proposing that they have a real income, not an allowance, which can be done with multiple funding. I would remind you that we have defoliation in Arcadia, so we could also make resources in that direction. There's also the Megalopolis, which has burned a place, is firefighting. The government said it and passed it in the FEK. So, does the government have an interest in resolving the issues of interconnection with IPTO, finding the way of funding so that these people can have a permanent income for the next few years and stay in their areas, so that we can keep the province alive? That is the main issue. I will say - as I have said before - that everything that happened in Evia for the sake of justice must also be done in other areas. For the next ten years, the resin producers will be able to work in the woods for the next ten years. Some of this should be done in other areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr George Amyras will answer. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, I understand and fully share your interest in how to stay where people are facing these catastrophic fires in Arcadia, but also in the other regions of Greece, where there was such a problem, whether they are farmers, farmers, small farmers, groups or individual entrepreneurs or partners. Furthermore, I am indeed pleased at the proposals you have put forward and the concrete proposal you have just presented, which the government sees very positively. As you rightly said, in Evia, where we had a great deal of damage to the natural environment, the government and the Greek state are actually looking to find ways to prevent the resin collectors from leaving, for example, their place. They live from the woods. The forest will come back with regard to its economic performance for the people who used it and took care of it after ten, fifteen years. Just this concern for Evia in the same way will be expressed for the other regions of Greece that faced the problems with fire. I would remind you that the Benoit Committee that has been set up with a voluntary, natural approach by Mr Benoux, in other words with the highest capacity that one can have, which is the status of active citizen, is working on proposals in this context that you have presented, namely how to keep people - and younger people and older people - in their place and do not make an internal migration, because they will not have the resources, they will not have the means to survive, to develop their lives for themselves and for the future of their children. So what do we care about now? We are rapidly interested in having the Benoit Plan, which is structured in three stages. Tomorrow, with Mr Benoy, we will be in northern Evia to present this plan to the inhabitants, to the people who, above all, need to learn, to hear, to see, to add or remove, to make comments on this project. What will be done in Evia with the Benos Commission, Mr Constantinople, will also be applied to the other regions of Greece. They are the immediate relief measures that the government has already taken - I believe we can all recognise - or forget, if you like, the government, the Greek state has immediately sent to provide housing assistance and compensation for the work tools that everyone had. For example, over a week, over 12 million euros were provided. This is the first, the relief, the immediate one. There is the second stage that is transitional, which, in my view, is probably the most important, Mr President, than anything else, because that is where you will see whether you will have the power with your decisions to keep the world in his homes and in his land. And thirdly, of course, the medium-term that will have the final impression if you want to imprint the country's collective effort on these societies that have been affected. So my answer is: Yes, we think, we listen very carefully to the proposal that you have just tabled, we share it, and very soon I believe that this government will be able to tell you what you are asking us as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. I retain today that the government sees my proposal positively. I got it. Let's see what Mr Benoit's committee will do. I think in fifteen, twenty days we'll have some news. We'll be here to ask again. Secondly, I would like to ask you, Minister, since you will be with Mr Beno and you have said here in the House that what is going to be done in Evia must also be done in the other regions, you must tell Mr Beno that the government has said not to repay the repayable advance, but it has not been said about the other regions. So if Mr Benos decides to do so, and he is in the logic of it, he will soon have to do so. It's a matter of justice. I now come to this particular proposal. I am always in a good mood, because I believe that it is worth proposing something that is effective and can help. That'll help people first. And to tell you something, nobody has anything to lose from this whole process. Why am I telling you this is a unique opportunity? Because this will give the affected person an income, he will be financially involved in it, so he will feel that it is not something that is for throwing and around it again will set his life up in another more professional way as a farmer, as a farmer, as a small group and everything else. So I am basically not asking, to look good in the eyes of my fellow citizens in Arcadia, which is an allowance, to give them EUR 10 000 or 15. EUR 000 to keep them from returning. I'm saying something very different. To make funds available for these areas. Especially for Arcadia is the degreasing that has terrible resources and is very small for that, because there are not too many people who have the VAT in this region. And that's to do with rules. I do not want anyone who had anything to do with the region to come in, we want to support these people who were there, and we believe they will stay there. And through this whole process citizens will once again trust the Greek state and not just the Government of New Democracy today. They will trust the Greek state, because a member of the opposition was able to help and accept the government, which is for the benefit of the citizens. Thank you and I will be back soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Mr. Amyras, I don't think you have much to say. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. Yes, Mr Constantinople, I too believe that where there is cooperation, consensus, consultation, dialogue, something good can come out, let alone in this sacred Chamber, in the Greek Parliament. To give two three technical issues on what you asked me, your proposal to install small photovoltaics up to 500KW. This is, of course, the responsibility of the TEN, but here we have some practical facts to say. The possibility of interconnecting them each time depends on the electrical space. For the flaming regions of the Peloponnese, of course, and also for Evia, but let us now talk about the Peloponnese, the network despite the fact that it has been characterised by RAE as saturated - you know this - by a law in 4819/2021, derogating from these RAE decisions, certain power margins and the possibility of providing connection offers to the network were established at RES stations. Tenders for connection to the network can therefore be made at photovoltaic stations in the Peloponnese until the total power of 86MW is exhausted. The power margins therefore referred to in an older law in 4546/2018, referring exclusively to the Peloponnese alone, are available exclusively to photovoltaic power stations and are increased by 40%. I am trying, in other words, to see how we are going to overcome what RAE says, that the network is saturated and that I go to see how, therefore, your proposal can practically get flesh and bones, bearing in mind that there is a margin of power in the Peloponnese - and in Evia - 30MW for each region, for the Peloponnese, therefore, only 30MW for wind power stations that are going to operate from an energy community. A second: Despite the fact that the network's capacity limits are finite, there is scope to grant connection licences and there is also a financial instrument, perhaps more. What's that? Aid to the professional farmers for the installation of small photovoltaics by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. And now I want to tell you that soon in the coming months, in other words, at the beginning of next year, we will have a call for subsidies, a call for subsidies for precisely this sector. So there's the design, there's the way to cross the limits set by RAE, we take full account of your proposal, we consider it positive, and here we are discussing it again, since we manage and have the opportunity to talk again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, too. Have a good day to both of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u146	The eleventh question under number 1000/30-8-2021 of the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To remove the discrimination of agricultural parcels from the legacy of rural rehabilitation of Miratites", is not discussed in consultation. The same question was raised by Mr Kegeroglu to the Minister for Digital Governance. It is the fourteenth under No. 1003/30-8-2021 topical question by the Member of the Hercule of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "To remove the unfavourable treatment of agricultural parcels from the legacy of rural rehabilitation of Miratites", which is also not discussed in consultation. The first question under number 7208/11-6-2021 of the SYRIZA MP's circle of petitions - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Government must publish the mortality rates in all the intensive treatment units of the country," will also not be discussed. The second question under number 8108/19-7-2021 of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Drama - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophilos Xanthopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: Continuous degradation and elimination of Drama Hospital in medical and nursing staff - Government reluctance to strengthen it - Purification of cleanliness to contractors - Merger plans and repealing units and clinics of the hospital, is also not being discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, the PLZ Minutes have been distributed on Wednesday, June 2nd, 2021, the PM's meeting on Wednesday, June 9th, 2021, the PLST's meeting on Thursday, June 3rd, 2021, the PLZ's meeting on Friday, June 4th, 2021, the PLI's meeting on Monday, June 7th, 2021, the PLTH's meeting on Tuesday, June 8th, 2021 and the PLZ' meeting on Thursday, June 10th, 2021, and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u147	Consequently, the Minutes of the PLEN meeting on Wednesday 2 June 2021, the PM meeting on Wednesday 9 June 2021, the PLST meeting on Thursday 3 June 2021, the PLZ meeting on Friday 4 June 2021, the PLI's meeting on Monday 7 June 2021, the PLTH's meeting on Tuesday 8 June 2021 and the PMA's meeting on Thursday 10 June 2021, the PLZ's 2021 Minutes on Tuesday, 1 March 2007 and Wednesday 2 March 2007 were ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-06-S1-commons.u148	With the consent of the House at 18.35 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 7 September 2021, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
