ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning and good month, always with health and good holidays. The meeting's on. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Mr Koutnatzis, Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, informs us that on Wednesday, December 1st, 2021, the 233/29-11-2021 topical question will be discussed and answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, George Stylion. Mr Stylianos - Ioannis Koutnajis is signed by the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs. We enter the topical question under number 233/29-11-2021 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Stavros Arachovitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of 'Funding Basic Aid 2021'. Mr Arachovitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. To wish everyone and all in a good month. Minister, we were here in mid-October, discussing the imminent payment of the advance on basic aid, and we had warned that the advance would not be good, as it has proved to be the worst advance payment in recent years. Of course, last year we had the liquidation of the Basic Aid in the December payment, which was also a bad payment, but what was now done with the advance payment of the Basic Aid has no historical precedent. According to your figures, therefore, 63m euros were not paid to the beneficiaries. Although I would like to tell you that, on the basis of the data we receive from the whole country, these data are questioned. It seems that the amount is more than 63 million, at least that feeling is forming. Recently we also had the decision of justice on the UCLAF competition, which, after appealing by one of the two companies, annulled the tender. All of these issues and even given that the mistakes have not been corrected, the failures that have led to this basic payment make us worry about how the liquidation will eventually be done in a few days' time. We've already entered the month of liquidation. There was no interim payment, as we asked you on several occasions. You chose to go directly to liquidation payment. The evidence suggests that this payment will be even worse. The days have elapsed when a SYRIZA had entered a class and was maintained until 2019 in payments, where at the time the sums planned and the security was provided for the producers. These times seem to have passed since December. However, we are living at the time when dramatic price increases make the need ever more imperative than ever for producers to know what they are taking and what time they take. So the question not only of our own, but of the world outside is: Do you intend to correct all the errors and, in particular, of the farmers' NGO, which led to failures in this payment so that the liquidation of December is a more normal payment? And then you intend to give clearer instructions? Because these directives now in force leave too many doubts and many misinterpretations about what CSUs and beneficiaries should eventually do so that the December payment is a payment that will not be worse than the advance we have seen a few days ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Minister, Mr. Stylion, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to raise a few issues that are mutually acceptable and acceptable to everyone and do not apply for the first time. The first is that OPEKEPE is not a paying agency established yesterday by our own government. It is a certified payment agency with a history of twenty years in which the work of controls and payments of EU aid is unnecessarily and reliable, using procedures resulting from strict Union institutional law. Under this law, it also controls and checks itself, so that aid is correctly and fairly distributed. The role of the board of directors of the Agency, and the Ministry, and the political leadership, is therefore the guardian of respect for the institutional framework and safeguarding the procedures and time limits and any ministerial decisions - anyway subject to the rules - to this end. You said that the advance payment of the single payment was tragically problematic - so you refer to the question I read - and you are trying to support, by comparing the amounts of the 2020 and 2021 basic payment, that there is a great problem in 2021, that we have a very problematic payment this year. But the evidence we have in the Ministry from OPECE leads us to other conclusions rather than to what you are referring to. As you well know, and all the producers know each year, we have the following: we have a 2.09% reduction each year in Single Reinforcement under the 1307/2013 Regulation of the European Union. In addition, we have a reduction in all the rights, which is deemed necessary to cover the national reserve rates, which, of course, this percentage, from year to year, varies according to the demands of new entrants, young people, who want to get rights from the national reserve. For the years 2020 and 2021 this rate was 2.5%. In other words, we have a 2.09%, which each year is stable, which applies to the reduction of the single payment system, and we also have the rate for the national reserve. This for 2020 and 2021 was 2.5%. So we're going to 4.6%. I can tell you this: On your own behalf, the percentage allocated to the reserve was 4.5%. So 4.5% and 2.09% go to 6.5%. So you come and say that I have a difference of many millions. The evidence that we have, given to us by the OPECE, have given us, the credibility of which we accept, strengthen and support, is as follows. The advance payments for 2020 amounted to 679 million and 2021 to 633. So we say that we have a difference of 45 million, a rate of 6.7%. In other words, 4.6% is justified by the above-mentioned reductions. There's a 2% difference left. I'll say it again: the deposit was 680 million and with us this year is 634, so we have a 46 million difference. It is a pretext that the reduction of 2.09% plus 2.04% will also be within these 46 million. How does this difference result? You know that, and we know that every year there is a figure, a percentage, which is subject to controls and any percentage of these checks will be cleared up when the liquidation is completed. So we have a given figure for the checks. So our figures, if we calculate 4.5%, that difference, which is 680 million, is 17 million. It's a sum which makes sense to have a payment of 700 million, to have a figure of 17, which will be why cross-checks are carried out, to write off errors, etc. It is a process that is ongoing and we say it now, because we have said so by official announcement from the Ministry, that the producers and the FOD, who make the statements, should know about any mistakes made in their applications. That's the point. There's no more issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u5	Mr Arachovite, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. In other words, Minister, you have told us that you are satisfied with the payment made. That's what you told us. On the basis of your information and communication, it seems that from 633 there are 63 million missing, i.e. 10%, which we can analyse if you like. 2.09%, in fact, relates to Article 22, which means that this amount is retained for deficits and that they do not exist, and usually by payment in September. So let's get this out of the equation. The second is 2.5% actually going for the national reserve and you said that it was 4.5% on SYRIZA. Let me remind you - because they probably did not give you the evidence - that 2% which was not used also shared with the producers. So the retention was always 2.5%, and now, in the past, and always. However, the difference between 10% and 10% is not justified. We question it because we believe that more is missing. Somewhere the data you have is not complete and the amount missing from the producers is more than 10%, because these data are collected from all over Greece. It is not justified and is not justified by checks, as you say, for two simple reasons. Firstly, because the checks you say you are doing were cross-referenced by fair and unjust. In other words, the crossing of the IACC with E9 took place in all cases, such as in cases where the parcel had been declared with an E9 code and broke into sections in the IACC and therefore reasonable issues were created, you cut them horizontally, without cross-checking, on-the-spot and strict cross-checking in error cases. The second thing you've done is you didn't pay for transfers. And be careful, this is where the issue of legal certainty arises, and this will be suppressed, because in recent cases, just before payment, your circular, which you banned transfers of rights, at the time when people made transfers of rights, whether for young farmers, from a wife to a wife, or in other cases, or on the acquisition of yet to be allowed under the law at that time. It was not illegal to transfer rights when it took place. And you're coming back late, and you're saying that this won't be paid. In other words, these transfers, which have been withheld and unrighteous, are exposed to you. There is a question of legal certainty. You said about OPEKEPE. No one disputes the role of OPECE. But we are clearly questioning the political guidelines given by the CFD for farmers, which has led to a large majority of farmers, a large majority. We question the decisions on transfers, which, I repeat, raise a question of legal certainty, and the information tells us that they will be insulted massively. And we question that horizontally you have made cuts, without making targeted and strict controls, as you should have already done. This raises issues in payment. But you have not answered our basic question, which is what you will fix, so that the payment that comes from us, the basic clearance and greening is no worse than the advance we have all experienced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Arachovite. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u8	The procedures in the OPEKEPE were normally carried out, the debug checks carried out by OPEKEPE prior to payment of the advance in order to correct errors through files sent to OPEs. In order for producers to be able to correct the same obvious errors in their application for 2021, in accordance with the procedure for the submission of administrative acts, as described, they were given the possibility of two circulars, the circular of correcting apparent errors through administrative acts and the imposition of delayed single payment applications, announced on the OPEKEPE website and amended by No. 15-11-2021 a document on ‘Amendment of an apparent error Circular by administrative means’. So we made it possible with a circular, 1-10-2021, and with a second circular, which OPECE gave on 15-11-2021, producers and CSRs to come and make a correction to what you said in their statements and which certainly concerns the errors that have arisen from the ATAK cross-checks. So we have a process that enables them to come and make their corrections. These are well known and are also known to producers and CSRs. And the question today helps to inform people. So we say again that the payment ran, following all the formal procedures followed each year, and with our own government and with your own government before, with one difference, that we also applied cross-checking for the ATAK and informed the world in good time. It has been said here in the Greek Parliament by Minister Spelion Lebanon since February 2021 that the control of the ATAK will be implemented next year. What does that mean very simple? That my statement, what I state in the statement, what I have in E9, should be identified. This process is now under way. For the difference in the amount, which you say is 10% - which does not result, it is not 10%, but it is 2% the difference - that is, as I said, the checks which are still under way and that is a sum of 17 million to 680 million. I've gotten the evidence from previous years. Every year it was there, 14, 12 17, 18, i.e. these elements are, look at them. But don't arbitrarily make a 10%, it sounds in the world and it's created wrong impressions. We in a series of decisions and with the CSI you mentioned, what did we do? We have given young people the opportunity - we want there to be an age renewal in the rural world - to get in and get out of public land, all with the same percentage. In other words, whether we have a new entrant farmer in Epirus, we either have a new entrant in Thrace, or in Crete, with the same percentage of distribution of the pasture from the public land, from the public land. Therefore, we have taken the highest average, same percentage and higher average where it comes out to the country, to support them and to strengthen them. And that is what the greatest generations want, who want to make the transfer and give the baton to the new generation to enter and stay in order to keep the countryside alive, but also to support the primary sector and especially livestock farming. With this policy we are moving, in this way, and that is why we understand that we also have the support of a large proportion of farmers and farmers. You know that in the new CAP too, the turn is to support livestock farming, to provide special support and support for livestock farming in the country. And that's not only because we're good, because we love them for the farmers - I said it in my speech in the House - but the numbers tell us. When we are in deficit a billion a year in meat, and if we put the derivatives of livestock, the dairy products that raises it, it tells us that we have the minus ahead here. So we want to support it to reverse it. Because this will be in favour of the taxpayer, in favour of the Greek economy, it will help us to return to recovery and development that we so much want. We are, however, at your disposal, where there is a difference in these matters, and we should also inform you, with your side, of telling the world and of understanding what has happened. When I say that we understand that we are being supported, we were in Patras for the consultation of the CFP and the President of the Kalavryan Association said 'Bravo, continue, rightly do'. The day before yesterday we were in Iannina, again for the consultation of the CFP, where the regional director who is involved - you know the emphasis he put on livestock farming - told us 'Bravo, right, you are right to go'. We were in Lamia the other day on Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u9	In Crete, what did they tell you? Did they tell you the same thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u10	I call on people who are in the livestock sector, given that they are in favour of farmers and farmers. So when they all tell us that you are going ahead properly, when the numbers and amounts we get from the OPEKEPE tell us that controls are being carried out properly and that the procedure is running, what we will do is to be the depositaries to follow the procedures, the formal procedures that are envisaged, to give both credibility and authority to OPEKEPE and to its employees and to the Agency, but to be in the interests of producers and livestock farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. We will have a short break in order to get on the agenda for legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! The adjournment of the session shall be resumed. We enter the supplementary LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Recommendation and organisation of a legal person under private law under the name ‘National Central Authority for Health Procurement’, a strategy for centralised procurement of products and health services’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 5 November 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and amendments. The speakers will be registered electronically until the end of the speech by the second rapporteur. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u13	The House has agreed. Before I give the floor to the rapporteurs, I will give the Minister for Health, Mr Athanasios Ploiros, to speak about World AIDS Day. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a World AIDS Day, and indeed, there has been a struggle from all humanity since the first moment this disease has been, and you see that science has reached a point to deal with the consequences of this disease as far as possible. However, there is still a great deal of discrimination against those who are positive, and there is a perception that has been left over in recent decades and we have not yet managed as a society, although very much progress has been made, to eliminate discrimination against these people. Today we will certainly have a very strong debate in this House on the amendments which come to the bill itself. However, I have the honour, ladies and gentlemen, to recommend two provisions which were consistently calling for patients from HIV, from seropositive patients, and the state is coming today, on the one hand, to the fight against AIDS, and I believe that these two amendments will have a unanimous decision by all my fellow Members. The two provisions, which I have the honour of proposing as Minister with the full guidance of the Prime Minister on these matters and after the meetings with the Union of Patients and also with the patients themselves, the seropositive ones, include the following: First, we are legislating for the full integration of the prescription of antiretroviral medicines into the intangible electronic prescription that was not available to date. And a second, even more societal issue, is that we give the opportunity to become foster parents who suffer either from HIV or Hepatitis II, provided that they follow the treatment or have completed the treatment. And, indeed, this is a social issue because it was an exclusion for these people to be fostering parents, and there were no more scientific evidence justifying this, and we give them this possibility, of course, provided that the treatment is respected. In today's day, therefore, on World AIDS Day, I think it is Parliament's duty to show these people with a unanimous, agreed view that these self-evident issues that have not been settled so far, we are sympathetic to them and are voting on them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u15	And we thank the Minister. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios Ljupis, now has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u16	Good morning! Have a good month, everybody! Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing and voting on the draft law of the Ministry of Health entitled 'Recommendation and organisation of a legal person under private law under the name 'National Central Authority for Health Procurement'. The current legislative initiative aims to restructure the National Central Health Procurement Authority and build a system of procurement based on the principles of transparency, speed, stability and efficiency, by speeding up digitisation, using modern accounting methods and implementing all the regulatory framework applicable to public procurement. Because of the health crisis it has become more urgent than ever to provide suitable health material without delays. The targeting of the bill is double. A system of supply is being set up which will provide us with financially advantageous agreements, but which at the same time guarantee us high quality products and health services. The progress of the EACH to date is undoubtedly inadequate, with great delays and serious gaps in its operation. The NCA was established by the previous government with Law 4472/2017. However, since 2017 few competitions have been successfully completed. On the contrary, the competition phenomenon that began in 2015 was observed to come to the sign of the contract about five years later. The result? In order to meet the health requirements of material and equipment, we are constantly leading to direct assignments and ex post legitimisation of the costs incurred. It is estimated that 80% to 90% of hospital supplies are made by direct purchases. This in itself means increased hospital costs that could be avoided, while at the same time there is a risk that we will get low-quality products. The key to a successful procurement system on this scale is the negotiation and implementation of a central, flexible and rapid system. The EIOPA manages all stages of the procedure, from the technical specifications, the award of the tender to the competitive process, the conclusion of contracts and the monitoring of the performance of contracts. With today's draft law, multiple objectives are achieved: firstly, the modernisation of the EACH. Secondly, long-term strategic procurement and operational planning. Thirdly, attracting experienced skilled executives. Fourthly, the introduction and utilization of computer and data digitization systems. Fifthly, compliance with the regulatory framework of public procurement using electronic lists and electronic tenders based on European legislation. Sixth, public and private partnership projects are being carried out, especially in the field of logistics using modern stock monitoring methods through barcode and the development of statistical forecasting models per order. Undoubtedly, the biggest change concerns the conversion of the EAFRD by a legal person governed by public law into a legal person under private law. This change offers: firstly, greater flexibility and efficiency with decapitation from the slow-moving procedures by which legal entities governed by public law move. Secondly, the possibility of attracting skilled executives. Thirdly, a wider range of sources of economic revenue, offering a greater financial soundness to the operator. Fourthly, cooperation with specialised external consultants. Despite the permanent opposition's objection to private-law legal persons, the new ESDP remains part of the public sector. In addition, Article 3(2) of the draft law clearly describes that EIOPA is 100% owned by the Greek State and operates to serve the public interest. The new legal form can prove particularly effective, as was the case with other public bodies. A recent example in the health field is of course the EGE, which, as a Legal Person of Private Law, has generally deleted a successful path to the protection of public health and, above all, the management of a pandemic. EACH serves a large number of health facilities, such as, for example, all hospitals in the U.S.S., all hospitals, hospitals, hospitals supervised by the Ministry of Education, public primary health care structures, legal persons of private law supervised by the Minister of Health. It manages medical, health and pharmaceutical goods, as well as related services, while at the same time supporting the Ministry of Health in relation to tenders for supplies in connection with co-financed projects. Key changes include exploiting digital means by creating electronic logs and procurement related programmes. Four electronic health supplies registers, the register of first products of services and suppliers, the register of central supplies, thirdly, the cost and consumption register and fourthly, the register of technical specifications shall be kept. The product register shall include the file of ranges of accepted values which replace the price observatory and shall be recorded annually for each product a lower and higher price per product and per Observer at the request of the Observatory Committee. The relevant values are binding, but a procedure is provided for the change of the maximum acceptable value, which is reviewed on the basis of health requirements. Secondly, the functioning of an internal product movement system between health structures to meet the unforeseen and exceptional health needs. Thirdly, the establishment of a mechanism for monitoring payments in relation to supplies to limit delays. Fourthly, the enlargement of the EMS, beyond the state budget and the special fee already envisaged. The new EAFRD, as a legal entity governed by private law, can act as an implementing body for ESDP programmes and actions provided for by the Recovery Fund, since the new legal person will have the necessary organisational and operational flexibility. Fifthly, the training, every three years, of the strategic central supplies of products and health services, on the basis of which the operational plan for centralised procurement is established and the annual programming of the ESDP results. Sixth, the creation of an advisory body, the Council of Experts, composed of twenty-two direct members, of all health facilities, such as representatives of the pharmaceutical industry, hospital doctors, EOF nurses, but also representatives of patients who acquire an institutional position and a reason. Seventh, the preparation of internal rules of operation, the creation of a position of Director-General, the emergence of the new nine-member board of directors by ALP procedures. The President, the Vice-President and the members of the Board. must concentrate on their faces high qualifications at the level of study and work experience. Eighty-eight, the setting up of sixty staff with an indefinite contract of employment and twenty-fifths under a fixed-term private-law contract. Already today, eighty-eight permanent staff seats and twenty-five posts have been established with a certain amount of time. Today's bill includes the possibility, if necessary under preconditions, of setting up additional forty fixed-term private positions for three years for qualified personnel on health supplies and logistics. Therefore, there is no overloading of the ESDP with additional unjust staff, as was heard by the Opposition. Today's bill also includes ensuring the full existing staff serving in the EMCDDA. Permanent staff shall be automatically transferred to a vacant organic position of the Ministry of Health and may be seconded to the new service. All workers maintain their occupational status in full and lose no rights. The same applies to those who are already engaged in an employment relationship with private law for an indefinite period, as they continue to work under the same conditions. Fifty-six committees are set up to assist in the work of the Board of Directors. In relation to the amendments made by the Ministry of Health, it is attempting to deal with the launching of the prescription costs for uninsured people. Based on the new arrangement, since 2022, prescription medicines and tests will be made centrally, by doctors in hospitals and primary health care units and not by doctors certified in the electronic prescription system. Of course, uninsured citizens do not lose any rights in relation to access to medicines, treatments or tests. The effort that is being made is obviously about addressing the phenomenon of prescribing to people who have just acquired AMKA at some point, without being sure if they are even in Greece today. With the same amendment, a consistent request from the Union of our Observatory citizens is being made for the first time, as we have heard from the Minister, the intangible and electronic prescribing of antiretroviral medicines. At the same time, an important step is being taken to eliminate social exclusion, involving citizens with HIV or Hepatitis II. For the first time, foster parents are allowed to become, since they certainly ensure that they are treated and are not contagious. In conclusion, I should like to refer to developments from the pandemic front. All the health - doctors, nurses and other staff - as is recognised by all of us, have stood up to circumstances and exaggerate themselves in the day-to-day battle for the rescue of human life. The Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in a move to recognize the service they perform to the Greek people, recently announced the payment of half the wage to the health and personnel of the EKA. Almost two years after the first outbreak of the pandemic, we've got a lot of guns in our patron. We have an international investigation that seems to be performing at the level of medication. We have the application of the monoclonal antibodies in our country as well. However, our most fundamental and irreplaceable weapon remains prevention, namely vaccination. Unfortunately, we see discreet reactions to vaccines and the adoption of unscientific and unscientific views, which one in the first phase of vaccination was perhaps justified, now has no grounds for reason. To date, 56% of the world's population has received at least one dose of vaccine, while in total almost 8 million doses of vaccines have been administered. Vaccines are proven to be effective and safe. But, as he describes the World Health Organisation, the vaccines will not stop the pandemic. Vaccination will stop her. For all those who are still untrusting to vaccination in our country, the government has made numerous and intensive efforts to convince themselves of arguments by experts. However, we are at a key point where we expect the evaluation of the new 'Omicon' variant, which seems to be quite contagious. At the same time, the beds and ITH covids throughout Greece are filled with high speeds mainly by invasive ones. On this basis, the Prime Minister announced yesterday the measure of compulsory vaccination for those over sixty years in order to protect human life and public health. Invasive citizens over sixty years account for 85% of the severely ill, 90% of the imports into the ICM and 55% of the deaths. The Prime Minister's initiative is therefore a move to protect the life and health of the elderly and vulnerable groups of citizens. At the same time, it is a move to support the National Health System in order to dismantle and be able to respond better to all the needs of our fellow citizens. It was clearly a difficult decision, as the Prime Minister himself admitted. It is in no way a punishing tactic, but a last call and encouragement to our older fellow citizens. That is why I would expect support for counter-population in this aim, so that there will be unity and unity on such an important issue. The data on the first day following the Prime Minister's announcement appear to have shown that five times the number of people who made an appointment for the first dose of vaccine belonging to the age group over sixty years. I hope and hope that the same positive response will continue in the next few days. It is time for each of us to consider the enormous responsibility it has for the society as a whole. Vaccination is an act of love for ourselves, our own people, the health workers on the front line and risk their lives every day for the whole of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u17	We are also grateful to Mr Lippe and to him for the consistency in time. The reason for this is that after the Step, the rapporteur of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Constantine Markos, has been sanitized for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today I was late to come to the Chamber, despite the fact that our meeting began a little late, because I could not go down the road to Queen Wisdom, which has been filled with sanitary protesters. Now, Minister, it must be outside Parliament. At the same time, today, it is a day that many hospitals have declared demonstrations, strikes and job stops. And today, we have the eighteen thousand dead. That's the situation. The National Health System is being tested again. The sufferings did not take lessons for the government and once again the hospitals are unharmed and subordinated in the face of the outburst. The people on the front line - outside now are and protest - to the limits of the collapse denounce tertiary world situations with terror on-calls, tubes outside the ICM - yesterday I calculated them around a hundred and fifty - tens of ranjas and containers, resulting in poor care and increased mortality. The Government is ideally locked in the design of the gradual privatization of public health and indeed displaying an unprecedented analgesia deafness to the main demand for direct staffing of the public system. Further evidence is the reduced funding for health from the State budget and with revenues secured by the sale of services to patients and insurance funds. Yesterday, we just saw that the first Minister of State, Mr. Minister, cut EUR 600,000 for newspapers in 2021. This was yesterday when on-calls in the first HR area were in a tragic state. I think you should give an explanation about this, about our hospitals that have been converted into hospitals for a disease. Now, I would like to refer to an indicative communication to see the situation of the General Assembly of Doctors at the great hospital in Patras, St. Andreas, on 25 November. I would also like the New Democracy colleague from Volos to hear that if he is in the Chamber, who yesterday placed himself in the Commission. Sufficiently prevalent in the Hospital. There are huge shortages of staff, logistics and a limited number of beds and it is called upon to cope with a large number of covid patients who come to the TLP and are admitted by dozens in the newspaper. In the NITH covid with nine beds set in a rough manner and without appropriate specifications for its safe operation, the situation is worse. The minimum doctors in charge of its operation are not sufficient for the large number of seamless and severely ill. The intubated outside of the ITH with a simple respirator and a monitor are daily, while on the command, they inform the ITH physicians of unrelated specialities without any experience of intensive treatment and management of intact patients. This is a very critical point. Healthcare colleagues understand that. A month and a half ago, we asked you a question about the situation at the Hospital in Western Greece. It was about the Kefalonias, Lefkada, Pyrgos, Amaliada, Aegios, Kalavriton and Zakynthos Hospitals, entitled “Katreun”. You had the kindness a week ago to answer. You only answered for the last three, Agios, Kalavryta and Zakynthos. The other four hospitals didn't even mention them. However, I will comment on your response to these three hospitals. We've been talking about subsecution. So you told us - and I believe - that since the announcements the fifteen have been atrocious. Nine recruits were hired and nine pending. Minister, fifteen atrocious recruitments and we're talking Brain Drain. Now adopt the proposal of SYRIZA and President Tsipras to increase the wages of doctors in the ESS. Only this will solve both the health problem and the Brain drain. Money has shown that you are in the mood to consume in occupants. Consum it by raising the wages of ERC doctors. Only for that reason will you have no barren post notices. You don't see the problems. You stick to the line of the pandemic of the uninvasive, targeting them. You're undertaking a self-employed private doctor, which failed. You insist on the suspension of the seven thousand unvaccinated sanitary diseases you have not replaced. You invent how to cover this issue of the 'funding year' of graduates of medicine, which I don't know how far you're going to go ahead with it. But be careful: I told you at least - I told you to the Commission again - with the presidents of medical schools! Don't create any more problems where we have enough! You are targeting the Opposition and, of course, to get out of the bunker of responsibilities, you are exploiting the weapons you have with the "toweled" inside. I will now come to the Minister's announcements yesterday. Mr Mitsotakis said on September 2, 2, I read: "No other country has gone to enlarged mandatorys for the reason that from one point to the next, unfortunately, we are hitting a reaction wall from the invaders, which is very difficult to penetrate and the harder we are and the more compulsory we are putting the greater reactions that cause this", Mitsotakis, November 3 at MEGA. Now both the rapporteur and all your members since yesterday are celebrating the announcement of the fine to the over sixty years. Two months ago, you all proclaimed that compulsoryity could not go any further. Now you're celebrating compulsory fines. These were said by Apostle Paul "bulk salters" and Karaiskakis said "dance with either tumbles or trumpets". What's the result? The unreliability that is lost on your part does not bother us very much, but the consistency in society and the excitement of conspiracy. We've said that before. Try a little more to be more consistent and more serious! In fact, some articles - I don't know, Minister, if they strengthen - this morning they said that the fine would be EUR 50 and then you would do 100 euros. It is how enthusiastically the public received your initiatives. You need to realize, stop being negative of reality and move on to health planning by strengthening pre-institutional care as an impediment to the epidemiological wave - hard months come - with decisive support for hospitals, with the order of clinics, military hospitals and drastic measures to reduce dispersion in schools and media. In the midst of a pandemic, the Minister of Education shrinks schools and stacks students and more than twenty-seven per room. In our bill now there is no doubt that there are two problems with the supply of health services, their costs, which are objectively great - objectively! - and corruption, which has been visible, visible for decades and for which a substantial effort has never been made to deal with it. The first attempt - you want to say "incredible effort", you want to say that it has just opened a horizon - is the establishment of the SYRIZA of the EMAS. The rapporteur told us that he did not proceed quickly, he was delayed. I have good faith in accepting it. Good, it's a pain in the head, it's a head cut? For now in your EKPH, you are creating, apart from the fact that by making it a legal person of private law, you are proving your obsession and your ideologicality, at the same time changing it, you are literally exchanging it. You are doing this through a project promoter of the Ministry, which, too, believes me to accept that it is something you want to do flexibly, but unfortunately, it will be carried out by subjective projects. So what are you doing? You're making it a legal person of private law. You give him the opportunity to be the body for implementing public-private partnerships. You say that will implement the NSRP, while they can implement the NSRPs and central administration bodies, such as the DSRs. You give him the opportunity to use the recovery fund's money, which you could have had another role. You give him the opportunity to hire at least a hundred ‘days’ forty. It is not accurate, Mr Colleague, that it is not the personal point of a customer situation. He has employees from the NSA and any know-how he's got. Why are you prosecuting them and creating conditions for another hundred forty, plus the distractions you make from other public bodies? It's not like that. We have found that there is a great problem in the process of integration into the register. There's a big problem with central standards. And these, most likely, will be issues on which the process will not go forward and will also give birth to other instances of corruption. Finally, as regards the amendments, as I said yesterday, we are today honouring the day to deal with the HIV virus. Take note of one detail and I am referring more to doctors: AIDS was a huge problem. He was treated not with vaccines, with drugs. Why is that? In other words, it shows that there must be pluralism in the scientific approach to problems rather than a one-sided direction. For AIDS - to say it like this - no vaccine was ever made, only drugs were made. Now vaccines have been made, good, but on the subject of medicines, it is an area in which we must keep our eyes and our ears open for their implementation. Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to say what I said to you yesterday and, if you please, a commitment from you. There are hundreds of citizens who are in the difficult position of having a disease and not being able to make a vaccine, because there is scientific evidence that the vaccine may harm them. The state has seen this and has given them the opportunity not to be vaccinated. These people live in terror of being invasive, for they do not have the confidence that they do not want to be vaccinated, they cannot, but at the same time the state treats them as if they were the ones who are convincingly irreversible. You need to take an initiative, because they are also people who take precautions and make it easier for them to live daily. They'll be invited to pay a fine tomorrow, something you have to do. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u19	We too thank Mr Marcus and the consistency in time. Please close the electronic record system. And the reason now is, after the Step Health - I see that a doctor is succeeding, that is to say, the rapporteurs are today the medical industry - the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Poulas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, pandemic is no doubt a great bet for the world community. It creates new data both in society that must manage the fear of a sudden and murderous epidemic at any time, but also in the governments that are called upon to finance brave social policies on medical research and public health. The United States of America shows it to us. President Biden strongly supports the lifting of patents in vaccines and medicines to deal with Covid -19 and has proposed a large package of funding to support public health in Congress. The new measures announced by the Prime Minister yesterday I think that they are moving in the right direction, both to promote vaccination and epidemiological surveillance in the face of the new Omicon mutation that the whole world community is facing. But, gentlemen of the government, you're late. The vaccination of citizens over 60 years of age should have gone far enough, so that we did not get to the point of imposing even a fine to achieve it. You're paying him back. The people are paying him again. Repeatedly in recent years, we have been talking about the necessity of carrying out tests on vaccinated and unvaccinated citizens for better epidemiological surveillance. Unfortunately, you didn't hear us. You are now bringing concrete measures and you are doing well, but we would have saved a lot of time and a lot of cases. In our country the pandemic is testing the reflexes both of society and of the government. Unfortunately, the latter, who has the sole responsibility of managing the current health crisis, from one point to another, has made many mistakes. This is evidenced by the problematic course of the vaccination programme, the harvesting of hospitals, the large proportion of hesitants in vaccination, and especially the large number of coronary deaths, which ranks our country in the first positions of the European Union. In particular, you have constantly given contradictory messages by creating skepticism, complacentness and confusion. You have financed the mass media with millions of euros for campaigns in favour of the vaccination we have not finally seen. You are applying uncoordinated, incomplete measures in the area of transmissibility and you are introducing ineffective incentives to promote vaccination, instead of standing next to the citizens with sincerity and empathy. You hesitate to take measures in fear of political costs. You have worked on the scientists, despising them to public opinion. You did not make timely use of the KOMYs to promote vaccination at the end of the country, in the remote villages, in the camps, in the displaced populations, in the structures of migrants. Trace has been perpetrated. The structures of primary health care, which are not only a shield in hospitals and virus dispersal, have not been strengthened, but also how to effectively manage the Covid incidents so that they do not get to the hospital for hospitalisation when their condition has deteriorated to a point of irreversible. You have not promoted the strengthening of the ESS with the recruitment of permanent staff, but you have adopted rough solutions from the outset, moving the fewer existing permanent staff from unit to unit and depleting the biological limits of the ERC staff. You were unable to involve the management of the pandemic in the private health system, but you only left it non-covid and speculated uncontrollably. The involvement of private doctors found huge resistance, and so they look for doctors of specific specialties without finding a response. You are not aware of the tragic situation in our hospitals, with personnel being in emergency, tired and exhausted. You have done absolutely nothing to even satisfy his wages and insurance demands. You do not improve structures in public hospitals by making use of donations, for which you have also not given an account. You have created IF beds without the necessary specifications and without sufficient skilled staff, in the logic of manualness and improvisation. You left insurmountable on equipment, staff and infrastructure, especially public hospitals in the region. The admittedly poor situation that has been formed did not occur, because the warnings of scientists and the World Health Organization for highly contagious mutations, such as Omicon, which is likely to dominate the world, were there for the calls of hospital doctors for help, there were polls showing the high percentage of invasive and the causes of hesitation to do the vaccine. But public health seems not to be one of your priorities. This witnessed, deliberately or not, one of the most closest colleagues of the Prime Minister, Mr Skurchos, when he said that many beds of ICU are luxury and recently that the large number of deaths due to pandemic is due to the old population, but also to the method of recording deaths by the World Health Organisation. It seems you do not understand the social frustration caused by the revelations of your intentions by Mr. Scorcho. You suffer from a lack of social empathy, as you do not realize how far away you are from the Greek society and its needs. You are ruled by the doctrine of 'personal responsibility' and in terms of a liberal market. First the economy and interests and lastly society, individual rights and man. Your executives write red and cynically, as if they do not understand their responsibilities. You bring to Parliament a budget that further reduces public health expenditure and legislate as if we were not in a pandemic. A sample of such meaningless, indifferent, and indifferent to society of legislation is the present draft law. Where is the long-awaited health care bill, the main embezzlement for the dispersion of the pandemic? Where are the recruitments to support the ESS? When will you bring to Parliament the modernisation of the EEA? What are your plans for pharmaceutical policy? Instead of exercising a substantial social policy, you are making communication management of the pandemic. The state, blocked by problems, fails to find solutions and produce laws that will provide solutions and prospects. But it reproduces the same and the same, which it fakes as supposedly reforms and innovative proposals. Thus, you are bringing to the vote the conversion of the existing entity of the EAEC by a Legal Person of Public Law to a Legal Person of Private Law supposedly for the more efficient centralised procurement of materials, equipment, medical services, based on a three-year national operational strategy. But what is the reality? For two and a half years the EMCDDA has been deceived. You inactivated her, left her without any staff and infrastructure. As long as the pandemic has left the supplies uncontrolled by allowing health regions, IFET and hospitals to do their own competitions without any control, not even by the Court of Auditors. To date you have given no account of the financial management of your pandemic. We do not know where the funds allocated for the ongoing adjustments to the hospitals' budgets and to cover the costs of the pandemic have gone. We don't know where the donations have gone. Neither society nor parliament has been accounted for, creating conditions for the new financial derailment as was done with the rule of the New Democracy of 2004-2009. This draft law comes to cover your responsibilities and enables you to control the flow of money, to have absolute control over where the millions of euros are to be managed by the EMS, without there being any parallel control mechanism either by an independent authority or by parliament. You are serving the Board of Directors of the EACH with dates chosen by the Government with lame and blurred criteria, without the House having any say in choosing. You take the AACC into account in the selection of staff, allowing the service of EACH by private law of an indefinite duration and private law of a fixed term with criteria to be determined by the Board of Directors on its own initiative, without any guarantee of a high level of qualification and qualifications. You create a multitude bureaucratic mechanism, with committees, numerous members, files, registries, self-registered offices, which make it difficult for the EMCDDA to function properly and effectively. In the procurement criteria you do not explicitly include innovation, state-of-the-art medical and technological developments in the field of medical materials, medical equipment and medicine. So you do not in any way guarantee that our hospitals will supply products, medicines, latest technology machinery, which would also be an important incentive for companies operating in the health sector and suffering from claw back to bring modern medicine and machinery to the Greek market. You entrust the identification of the technical criteria of procurement to private doctors, doctors of the ESS, medical associations, obviously your own choice instead of a public body or an independent authority from a recognised value of scientists. No transparency, no credibility in your choices. You are giving details of important operational issues, financial management of the ESDP to CSR and you are not setting a timetable for drawing up internal rules of operation and setting up the board of directors, showing once again the roughness, haste and incomplete parliamentary preparation. You open the way to private individuals and here, providing for the participation of EKPH in public and private partnerships. It is clear that you are facing pandemic as an opportunity to promote cooperation with the private sector and you are trying to control the direction of money without transparency, without accountability, especially in view of the money to be made available for health from the European Union's Recovery Fund. While you are characterising the EACH as a National Central Authority, notion interconnected with the administrative and operational independence of the institution under the control of the Parliament with the aim of combating corruption and maximising the social benefit, you are doing the opposite as you do not anticipate internal and external control. It is characteristic that there is no institutional control of the new structure, for example, from Parliament, the Court of Auditors and the Anti-Corruption Authorities, as well as provision for cooperation with the National Independent Authority for Public Contracts. Your intentions are even more obvious than the fact that you are in existence powers from the final NSRP structure of the Ministry of Health referred to in Article 18 of Law No.4314/2014, as you entrust the NSRP with actions to implement and implement projects and actions as beneficiary or intermediary for the implementation of operations from any source of funding, either NSRP, either European co-financed programmes, or from the Recovery Fund, on behalf of the Ministry of Health, which is in direct contrast with those in force in Law No.4314/2014, which constitutes a deterioration and weakening of the latter for the new NSRP 2021-2027 programming period. In this way, the experienced NRP structure of the Ministry of Health is being affected and a new structure is being created with related responsibilities and additional operating costs. In addition, the overall role of the NSRP's staff structures is degraded in advance at the same time as the new NSRP law of the new programming period. Minister, social reforms want funds and political will. Inappropriate announcements and big words about prevention programmes, recruitment, funding, do not hide that we have been in the same health sector for years. It has now become established in the citizen's consciousness that the only Party it has founded, shielded public health, which has acted on social justice and the elimination of social inequalities is PASOK, that the only progressive force it has and has built, clear and integrated programme for public health is the Change Movement. We once again call on you to abandon the systematic devaluation of public health and the intelligence of citizens, on the grounds of pandemic and to show social sensitivity and solidarity, to put health at the top of your priorities. Until then, we are voting against your current attempt to cover your flaws and responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u21	We are also grateful to Mr Poulas and to him for the consistency in time, as are previous colleagues. We continue with the Special Buyer of the Communist Party of Greece, the Vice-President of the Parliament, George Lambroulis, fourth in turn doctor. Five of the four rapporteurs today are doctors. Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. This bill abolishes the Legal Person of Public Law under the name of EACH and establishes a Legal Person under the same name, while the articles of the draft law define the purpose and purpose of the legal person, its powers and resources. The strategy for centralised supplies, products and health services, as well as the establishment plan of the relevant Central Authority, shall be established. What's coming to serve? Further implementation of reactionary restructuring in health. What step is it? It is a step in the direction of adapting the public health system to market rules by privatising, furthermore, the procurement framework of public health services. And this is promoted by the conversion of the EACH by a legal person governed by public law to a Legal Personnel of Private Law, which further strengthens the functioning of the EACH as a private enterprise, which will, in fact, sell products and services to public health bodies, as set out in Article 5, 'the revenues from all kinds of activities', thus also business. Secondly, to promote the market rules and further privatise the procurement of public health services, the composition of the Board of Experts - with Article 14 - which will primarily consist of people from enterprises who will regulate market issues with market rules. And all this on the back of the public health system, which is, in turn, a big and sure market. Third element: The possibility of implementing public and private partnership projects, the well-known PPPs - Articles 4 and 20 - thus promoting the development of the public health system, based on market laws and its conversion into a regulator of competition. Fourthly, the design and conduct of central procurement procedures involving not only products but also services, i.e. medical and nursing operations, thus increasing the access of enterprises to public health. Fifthly, we have the establishment of private staff seats of Appointment Time and fixed working hours, i.e. without a permanent and stable employment relationship, while OAS staff continue to work with the same unacceptable contracts as referred to in Article 18. In addition, it is planned to transfer staff from bodies of already dehumidated public health services to the EAFRD. Thus, this bill promotes changes in the health supplies system. In fact, what's he going to do? To regulate, in this way, the reduction of state expenditure on public hospitals, the part of the state budget directed at public hospitals, which is constantly falling at the same time as the needs of public hospitals in infrastructure, equipment and staff - and, indeed, within the pandemic - have risen dramatically. However, at the same time as what the state budget has from resources, these resources will be directed to local entrepreneurs through the payments of hospitals. For the JRC, it is clear that the workers, the poor people's strata, will not actually see any improvement in their health services. On the contrary, the conversion of the hospital into a business means the cost that will be passed on to the insured person's back. But if we look at it over time, no law or organization, which has been set up so far and relates to supplies in public hospitals, has upgraded its services. And that happened not because the laws were not appropriate, but because they were designed precisely to serve this direction, to serve, that is, over time, the strategy of all governments towards the public health system in terms of cost-benefit logic. All this is completely beyond and outside - as we have said in the Commission - from our own logic of a state and public body that will equip public hospitals with all the necessary, last-tier technology, logistics and medical equipment, with the unique needs of hospitals and the population that they cover. However, when there is no production basis, no central design for the production of the corresponding material in the country, our people - like the other peoples - will be exposed to the dispositions of business groups, whether they are domestic or foreign, as has also been revealed, in the most glamorous way, during the period of pandemic with vaccines and impeccable and unrelenting competition between the major colleges of pharmaceutical groups for whom they will dominate and in what markets and what profits they will get from the sale of vaccines. Therefore, on the basis of the above, we are voting against the bill as a whole and on the individual articles. Of course, the bill debate takes place at a time when the coronary pandemic is riding once again with dozens of dead people every day. But, as it turns out, it is just as murderous as the pandemic of other morbidity, except for COVID, i.e. incidents. Thousands of patients remain on the hospital waiting lists without any visible prospects, for example, to operate or to address their chronic problems. They are actually condemned to a serious deterioration in their level of life or are forced into the private sector to operate or find health services and, of course, to put an increasingly deeper and deeper hand in the pocket, paying for services they should have had for free. The Government, therefore, rather than going ahead with the real ranking of the health business groups, which have the necessary infrastructure, staff, technical means and can contribute directly to the acute health problems of patients, uses the charge as a disorientating firework by hiding its refusal to hire permanent doctors and nurses to create expensive customers in the health business groups, of course exploiting the mess of public health units, which is your creation, gentlemen of the New Democracy, as well as of the previous governments. Here there are huge responsibilities to the government for supposedly full of hospitals by doctors, who, however, prove to be empty, for the IFs you made, but the patients who need them do not have them, for the beds you soberly open, after you have closed others, or for the roaming and wandering doctors from hospital to town, in order to ball the holes, but where more holes open, much more holes. Once again, with the implementation of all necessary preventive measures against the dispersion of the coronary, effective and personalised information on the increase in vaccination of the population, urgent measures are needed, in summary procedures, for public health units: Firstly, all available doctors of all specialties, all nurses and all health care professionals should be recruited. To hire all doctors who start their specialty. Secondly, all those who have been put into availability with the necessary preventive tests and their place in low-risk areas should return to their work. Thirdly, the large units of the private health sector and diagnostic laboratories should be chewed without compensation - we say - of businessmen and should be exploited by the state for the free care of the people. Fourthly, to include self-employed doctors and other sanitary workers, of course, in the single state planning for the free care of the people in which hospitals are not required. What is proven and confirmed by the entire course of pandemic and the risk of new mutations is that early and mass vaccination is necessary, but not, by itself, capable of dealing with the spread of the virus. On the basis of these developments, the Prime Minister's announcements and announcements are made yesterday and the corresponding amendment with a general number 1153 on the enforceability of vaccination. So this is another dose of mockery and strife, but also of covering up government's responsibilities to deal with the pandemic. Repeat the same bankrupt recipe of individual responsibility, which results in the evacuation of the cases, having led hospitals to collapse, while making use of the vaccine weapon as an alibi to do nothing more overall as to the protection measures required, as well as the specific measures needed to "run" the vaccinations. In fact, the EUR 100 ranch - that is to say, in the amendment per month for the over 60s - will finance hospitals, as you say, which have remained at the mercy of sub-funding for the last two years - and not only in the last two years - after the pandemic has occurred. Indeed, in a provocative way and by betting on social automation, you say that this measure - which the Prime Minister said yesterday - is an act of justice that will complement the government's persuasion campaign when there is no effective information campaign on the benefits of vaccination. Even the opportunityal self-diagnosis through the disposal of them for free, as you say - one week in December and one week in Genarris - self test for vaccinated and invasive are years of light from serious epidemiological surveillance. However, once again we have not heard the Prime Minister refer to anywhere in a universal public, free vaccination programme with all effective and safe vaccines, the existence of clear instructions to make use of increasingly enriched scientific data on the basis of medical evidence, so that vaccination with the appropriate vaccine can be carried out. Here too, there are issues, such as, for example, opening up a parentheses - who will do the vaccinations. There is, therefore, a staffing potential through EGE - contractors - which has been extended to carry out vaccinations, which are far behind the needs of any vaccination programmes. But even them - if I am not mistaken - the thousands remain unpaid not only for their regular earnings - in November, for example - but also for the extra days worked, hours etc., in the previous period, i.e. June, July, August, and even September. These workers are in hostage. Obviously, tomorrow, tomorrow, in a year - those whose contracts have been extended - ending their contracts. And they are people who are at the forefront of and when it comes to the vaccination of the population, but also to the issues of diagnostic tests, in other words, preventive tests, which, of course, are not sufficient to meet the enormous needs. What are you going to do? You still have them unpaid. We have also tabled a question to the Ministry of Health. So we say that the Prime Minister has not mentioned this need, namely universal vaccination. As also, nothing has been said about free and complete preventive medical control prior to vaccination and safeguarding for those who have to be excluded that there will be no consistency or discrimination, in particular for free full preventive control of diseases exempted from compulsory vaccination. He did not speak, for example, about the full day-to-day briefing of what comes out of the vaccination course. As also, we have not heard anything about the necessary vaccination campaign on issues of exhaustive information and answers to existing questions in the world, of the population. Even in the direction of enabling a substantial and personalised awareness of the need for mass vaccination. As also, we have heard nothing about the control and pharmacovigilance centre, about constant monitoring of vaccinated animals, about timely intervention in any side effects and about the scientific recording of the results of vaccination, both direct and long-term. On the contrary, once again all of this - and the amendment and the ones announced yesterday - is pouring water into the mill of irrationalism, pressing on the recurring government over the entire period of pandemic and, at the same time, throwing water into the mill of darknessous and anti-infective - as you say - opinions. Finally, Mr President, we shall refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Health. For the two amendments relating to labour, Christos Katsotsis will be mentioned, and I shall refer briefly to two amendments tabled by the Communist Party. One is the reintroduction and payment of the thirteenth and fourteenth wages for workers and pensioners, and the second is the reintroduction of the minimum wage and wage. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u23	And we thank Mr. Lambroulis. The reason is now the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Maria Athanasios, a doctor. Mrs Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I hope wholeheartedly we have a good month. Mr President, while our country records a new negative record to our intertwined citizens and a glimpse of deaths, the government insists on its disastrous division policy. You are announcing the mandatory vaccination of citizens over sixty years of age and that those who do not comply will be subjected to an administrative penalty of EUR 100 a month. Of course you claim that you have made it in order to protect them and I have had to protect the health system. Your real intentions, however, are not those, because if you really wanted to protect them, as you are concerned, you would have increased their income, wages, pensions at decent levels and not at poverty levels. You would have adequately served your health units on insects and supplies by ensuring them a public health system, which you would really care for them rather than send them to operate in private hospitals because you systematically refuse to hire, for example, anestheticists, for example, in the case of the Hippocrates of Thessaloniki, where the administration decided to operate in private hospitals in the absence of anesthetics. I quote the article in this regard with the announcement of the Hospital Workers' Association. And wherever they exist, if they're not vaccinated, they're on parole. The Government has consistently reduced the financing of the ESS by seeking to weaken public hospitals by implementing their neoliberal privatisation plan. Of course you do not dare to inoculate immigrants, legal and illegal, who already enjoy an informal health immunity from your Government, even though they are moving health bombs, which you do not control and under no circumstances limit. Oh, no. There you call for the freedom afforded by international law and follow the requirements of the NGOs. On the one hand, you are selectively respecting the freedoms and human rights of migrants, whom you have in the health unavoidable, on the other hand, you are indiscriminately imposing vaccination on the citizens, not respecting their decision. We have heard ten thousand people within a few hours the number of applicants to be vaccinated. Did you convince them? Oh, no. You blackmailed them, raped them, as if they were kids. Limitation of individual freedoms, restriction of questionable constitutionality, extinguishing them now either in vaccination, after you failed to convince them, or in poverty by imposing fines which you are hypocritically baptising as administrative fees in favour of the health system fund, which all of you supporters of forcedness and vaccines - New Democracy, KINAL, SYRIZA - led the country and hospitals to bankruptcy. These do not cease to be regarded by the people and are measures of a total nature, since you are making these citizens dinging and calling them, supposedly, the only guilty in the face of society, without guaranteeing them that they will remain healthy in the long term and after vaccination. The imposition of this fine - of the end, if it bothers you - fatally brings us to mind the 150 euro allowance for young people as a so-called incentive to be vaccinated. Purchase from one youth and punishment from the other of the elderly. Deal and assembling to offset the two. We give the young people, we remove the elderly to cover the fund. Nurse. If you really wanted to protect them, you would have brought medicines, yes, those that have already been approved before the fourth wave eruption and not wait until only two thousand monoclonal doses of antibodies have been received recently, but you would have already served the Primary Health Care, by discharging our hospitals. And instead of fined all these citizens to you, gentlemen, for your inadequacy, you put them. A proposal? 100 euros reservations in New Democracy, KINAL - PASOK and all parties they owe until your debt is repaid. This is protection for the citizens. Please tell us, for example, what other object is the secretary of the Primary Health Care Units other than the organisation of the vaccination programme? Shouldn't public transport be dismantled, should the vaccinated ones be informed that they're not free and they're transmitting it to the people you've put the fine now? And continue the irrational suspension of health care with medical leave. You want to vaccinate the population by excluding it from other tested and effective treatments only to meet the trade agreements for vaccines you have concluded with the pharmaceuticals. This is what many citizens see and they are not convinced of your intentions. If you had honest intentions, you would have convinced many more that you really care. There's a check at the entrance gates for incoming people. Are those who come only with one passport that they've been vaccinated while they're transmitting it? And while you are still mismanageing the public health crisis, the country remains unreliable in the new mutation, because the government insists not to concentrate on tracing cases with free reliable checks on vaccinated and non-vaccinated. At a time when our country is recording an increase in deaths and permeated and while the ESS has exceeded its limits, the government is attempting to extinguish the tragic picture by quoting numbers. The harsh truth is neither the numbers nor the people prosper. After playing the paper of division by mentioning the pandemic of the unbelievers, the government has once again demonstrated that social automation is the last refuge of its inability policy. With regard to the bill we are debating today, I have to point out that the Government is, in fact, taking full control of public health supplies, since the supplies will now be carried out exclusively by the National Central Health Procurement Authority, which is transformed by a Legal Person of Public Law into a Legal Person of Private Law and run by private government choice. The new public limited company recalls something from the Petsa list and the sinful ERIC since the powers of the Authority include the implementation, in cooperation with external consultants, communication projects, information, promotion and advertising activities related to its activities and the launching of the organisation of relevant publicity actions and dissemination of the results of its works. It is not possible for a procurement authority to have such a scale of communication needs that it will be necessary to pay external consultants to design and execute them. This draft law basically does not offer any substantial reform to the National Health System. It does not even provide for the creation of an electronic register of national technical specifications, a register of extremely necessary. On the contrary, the legislation in progress in the adoption of the conditions for the material provided actually excludes domestic small and medium-sized suppliers of materials and favours the large multinational companies, which are now directly inviting to replace the Greek respective companies. Why are you doing this? To get richer? Article 4 ‘Application - competences’ is likely to work as another way to transfer money to friendly media, while at the same time increasing the future risk of lack of control mechanisms. We wonder whether this activity will open the way to unnecessary recruitment, attracting private interests, since the new legal form of the EACH as a legal person of private law - we still do not understand the feasibility of this change, Minister - will attract every optimistic private speculator. Also scandalous are other provisions governing how the new anonymous company operates, and so how the public money will be moved for the necessary supplies in the health sector. In detail, the EMCDDA, which will deliver all single coding records of products and health services in accordance with the same article, will be the only one responsible for conducting the tenders and for concluding contracts, will draw up the annual planning of centralised supplies of health products, which will be discussed only with the Minister of Health. Then what is the role of counterpopulation? Decorative? The EMCDDA will also cooperate with external consultants - natural or legal persons - in particular to assess the progress of the projects, the control and quality of their deliverables and the equipment and services provided by their respective contractors. In short, you do not define the criteria for the selection of external partners or the criteria for the suitability of works, equipment and logistics. Consider this ambiguity deliberate? What is the aim of it, if anything, to serve the private interests of the external partners? Article 6 provides for the drafting of a strategy for centralised procurement by the National Central Authority for Health Procurement, its revision where appropriate and set out what should include it, as well as the establishment of an operational plan for centralised procurement by the EMCDDA for the annual planning of centralised products and health services. We wonder why so much public power is granted to a person of private law whose powers and actions will be defined simply by ministerial decisions. In addition, even central supplies are made after the adoption of simple ministerial decisions by way of the parliamentary procedure. How does the opposition exercise its legitimate parliamentary control, Minister? Article 9 ‘Contests and procurement’ defines the powers - more extensive - for a body governed by private law such as EAEC, which is a national central purchasing authority for the conduct of tenders and for the award of contracts. Your objective is obviously the lack of control and even parliamentary control. Article 11 ‘Administrative Board’ refers to this being made up of President, Vice-President and seven members. The President and Vice-President will of course be appointed by the Minister of Health, who will also choose three more members of the Board without any guarantee of integrity. Also from one member will be proposed by the Governor of the National Health Services Agency, the Central Council of Health Regions, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Development and Investment. Indicative of the conversion you are attempting is that under the previous law the members of the board of directors were appointed according to the terms of the National Register of Officials and the Single System of Mobility in Public Administration. It will be able to legally protect the members of the Board of Directors for their decisions and actions even years after they leave. In particular, it shall stipulate that legal protection may be granted to members of the Board of Directors after their term of office has expired for any reason when they are seized or prosecuted for acts and omissions which have taken place in the performance of their duties. Legal protection is to pay the costs of judicial and legal fees to protect them or whatever is necessary for this purpose, including insurance, just like the Committee of Experts. It will also be renewed from a bottom-up point of view with staff of government selection, which will be a multitude. So what will be the criteria for selecting the persons who will be responsible for these services, whether gainful or not? Let us hope that logic and merit will prevail. Article 17 ‘Personal matters’ and Article 18 ‘Existing staff’ regulate the issues of the staff employed by the ESDP. In essence, these articles open up the way for the privatisation of the public body. We fear that a new Golden Boys will be employed, which will be fed on public money. Finally, it is worth pointing out that this move is taking place without yet registering suppliers and registering technical specifications, which raises even more suspicions of an imminent opacity party. In addition to the post of Director-General, a person from the private sector may be appointed. In other words, EIOPA, which will now be a legal entity governed by public resources, will be able to be run by private sector officials, even while respecting the confidentiality of Article 11 as regards the management of public funds by private individuals, while at the same time lacking any provision of public or parliamentary control. It is a scandalous complex of private interest in public money. This is the definition of opacity throughout. In Article 20, programming contracts and memorandums of cooperation by providing for the possibility of concluding programming contracts and memorandums of cooperation with public non-profit organisations clearly opens the door to cooperation with private individuals even with NGOs at the government's request without public control. Subsequently, Articles 21 ‘Contracting provisions’ and 22 ‘Transitional provisions’ give the Secretary-General the power to regulate, by simple Ministerial Decisions, fundamental issues of the Agency's operation again bypass of any parliamentary participation, but also a joint decision-making process. It may not, by simple Ministerial Decisions, designate the health regions as central purchasing authorities for the exercise of central purchasing activities for hospitals of their local jurisdiction or may be decided by any other relevant issue for the exercise of centralised purchasing activities. Also fundamental and fundamental for the functioning of the EACH topics such as competitions and the conclusion of contracts referred to in Article 9, the determination of the level of remuneration of external partners and the determination of the type and volume of cases to be entrusted to external partners at the expense of the taxpayers of Greek citizens cannot be the subject of a decision by a person or a political party. Collective decisions and cooperation are required in all political areas. Unfortunately, however, the government acts centrally, deviates, weakens and circumvents collective procedures and replaces them in summary procedures. Stop, gentlemen, hypocrisy and lies. This is a government of authoritarianism. We're sorry, but you underestimate our intelligence. Unfortunately, the draft law before us also comes at a very bad time, in order to disorientate public opinion from the grim reality that is the result of your devastating management of pandemic. The Greek Solution votes "No" in the first place. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u25	And we thank Mrs. Athanasios. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the current Question Time issue on Friday 3 December 2021, which reads as follows: A. Current Questions to the First Cycle (Arts 130pp. 2 and 3 and 132 para. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1. The Question No 214/22-11-2021 by MP Messinia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Alexandros (Alexis) Gift to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "The government freezes the payments of the NRP". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 226/28-11-2021 topical question by MP B1'North Athens Section of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Loverdos to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Business Support Structures in the Chambers of the country". 3. The Question No 216/24-11-2021 by MP I'Thessalonica of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Delay in the payment of payrolls of neo-determined teachers". B. Current Questions to the Second Cycle (Arts 130pp. 2 and 3 and 132 para. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1. The 215/23-11-2021 topical question by MP Larissa of the Radical Left Coalition Mrs. Anna Vageias to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "In the mercy of government indifference, the earthquakes of the prefecture of Larissa." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 220/26-11-2021 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Ms Maria Konnaka to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “The serious problems in implementing the programme ““Met-alley year” in the PES.” 3. The Question No 217/24-11-2021 by MP Johns of the Radical Left Coalition Ms. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Except for the education of students belonging to vulnerable groups under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs." The reason is the Special Rapporteur of Mera25 Ms. Maria Apatzidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing legislative intervention, which is not appropriate at all, and is totally ingrained. While we are at the peak of the fourth and more lethal pandemic wave, the National Health System has essentially been allowed to collapse into a system of a disease. Other morbidity is referred to the private sector and is ably becoming a field of speculation by private governmental clerical authorities. In an incomprehensible situation, the government is tabling a state budget of 2020 which provides for huge cuts in already weak health funds. The health ministry's costs are reduced by EUR 560 million. The funds for hospitals and primary health care are reduced by EUR 279 million, compared with 2021. It seems that the Mitsotakis government's policy on pandemic is, not just to do nothing, but also to reduce what is usually done. The pandemic is an opportunity to dismantle health in order to surrender to individuals. But there is also a second incomprehensible insult that reveals the racist and anti-democratic reflexes of this government. The government's announced measure, announcing a fine of EUR 100 per month for the invasive elderly, is unacceptable in too many ways. First of all, it is a confession of failure, that it has failed to convince the citizens. And as MERA25 we have proposed measures of persuasiveness, with free pre-vaccination control, which will inform citizens of the lack of risk from vaccination. But most importantly, the mandatoryity of the vaccine is undemocratic. Forcing is against democracy, and even imposing a fine on a particular age group, it is the worst form of social racism. It's ageing. This is a completely arbitrary and self-helpful decision for the elderly. It has been shown that the government is in panic. Because he does not want to improve the National Health System, he invests in all sorts of division and racism. Now she turns her audience and against the elderly, a social group that we must respect, if anything, all of us in this Chamber, but the government targets them and abuses them by imposing fines. For too many, however, these fines are unbearable. They won't be able to pay them. This tragic context also forms part of this bill, which transforms the National Central Health Supplies Authority from a legal person governed by public law into a legal person governed by private law. The Government allegedly claims to improve the efficiency of the operational nature of the EACH and to support the use of new health technologies and innovative materials and services. But the truth is easy to understand. What you are actually trying to do is systemize direct awards of court cases to an external lawyer, as well as the opening of possibilities for derogating Rusphetological recruitment, as well as gifts in the form of allowances to "loan" high grades. When EACH had been set up under Law 4472/2017 on SYRIZA it was assumed that it was aimed at central planning and strategy in the supply of health materials in the public sector to achieve economies of scale, i.e. lower prices and savings. In practice this did not work. The only reason for this is the infinite state health spending, over time, for the well-known reasons: Memorandums, debt, primary surpluses. Taxes are indeed collected, but they have never been used in favour of health. In practice, they headed to the black hole in debt repayment. It is necessary to bear in mind this context, in order to have this debate on problems of the articles in question. In Article 1, we have the classic call for the need to create an effective system of health supplies for flexibility. But during your government you have done absolutely nothing about this flexibility and effectiveness. And the fact that it is a legal person governed by public law is used as an alibi, according to your neoliberal ideology, and has not prevented you from doing anything. You do nothing to help infrastructure and staff. On the contrary, you are working the pandemic to carry out - in each health region and in each hospital - emergency competitions without taking account of legislation. To record all these uncontrollable expenses, we probably have to wait a lot longer. It is about the government’s idea of privatising the National Health System, continuing that the other bodies were transformed into legal entities of private law, among them hospitals, such as the Hospital of Komotini. It is not a problem that the government is urging its own flexibilities. The problem is most of the costs of material supplies, such as rapid tests or personal protective equipment, are always made by direct assignments, which the government always legalises after a few months. This harms the public, as does direct awards to contractors. Article 4 provides for public-private partnership projects, according to your favorite practice. You do not, however, define what works you mean and why you consider the evasion of a public-private partnership to be inseparable. What do you mean? Hospitals? Buildings? Energy upgrades? We don't understand. That is not clear, because you prejudge that the public authorities are unable to do so. In point IC, also speak of external consultants of communication projects and actions, information, promotion and advertising. We fear that such provisions are the epitome of the interlocutory and fragmentation of public money, in which we have been accustomed to a particular government. In addition to Article 5 entitled'resources', we learn that public hospitals and health centres will pay remuneration for the services provided by the EMAS. In particular, paragraph 1 of Article 5 states ‘the resources of the ESDP shall be the revenues from the provision of services to the bodies referred to in Article 7’, where all public health structures, including military hospitals, are bodies referred to in Article 7. It is of great interest that Article 5(2), which states: ‘In order to cover expenditure on EAFRD for the implementation of projects financed by the ESDP and the Recovery and Resilience Programmes, the grant by the national or co-financed part of the Ministry of Health's Public Investment Programme may also be granted within its annual limit up to half a percent (0.5%) of the total budget of the project carried out each time’. If we combine this with the provision of public-private partnerships in Article 4, then we all understand that we are dealing with a comprehensive vehicle for the recovery and enrichment of the government's 'individuals'. Article 6 makes a vague reference to the procurement strategy. It could be baptized as a wish and a report of ideas, as it ultimately falls to a Minister's decision, such as the usual logic of authoritarian centralization of that government. Excellence is appropriate, in order to encourage complexity. Article 7 speaks of the bodies which will be supplied by the EMS. While Articles 8 and 9 refer to tenders and commissions and procurement. With regard to Article 10, and here there is vagueness in the procedures for entering the register. Suppliers should also have a register containing technical specifications. And that has nothing to do with whether the ESDP is public or private. The quality of the products available is also important. It is a characteristic example of the glucose meter, where specific quality criteria should be provided. Further to Articles 11 to 24, issues relating to the Governing Council of the ESDP and its responsibilities shall be redefined. In principle, the members of the Board of Directors shall be required to respect confidentiality and, otherwise, to pay full compensation from criminal and civil liability for any damage caused to the EIOPA. The suggestion to the co-legislative ministers of the level of pay and the members of the aid and implementation committees of the ESDP project, which may be set up in particular as defined for the adoption of a joint ministerial decision. For some of the above aid committees meeting beyond the normal time limit, compensation may be paid under the conditions laid down in the decision to complete and deliver their work. The problem is that in Article 11, the vagueness of the criteria for selecting the Ninth Board of Directors of the EAEC favours the Government's 'days' step. They are once again attributed overpower to the Minister, who will be able to draw for the service of the "blue children" outside the ADP procedures. In particular in paragraph 6, we shall have in the provision for an additional period of three years the Board may decide to recruit specialised staff in the field of supplies, health, research and so on. This is the cherry on the cake of breaking public money to friends of the government, by means of opaque procedures. But also in Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18, the AACC shines through its absence. He'll decide, says, the Agency's Board of Directors on the staff of the EMCDDA. And we have every reason to believe, because of the government's previous conduct, that this will not even be done on the basis of free market criteria, but on those of blue partyism. Article 14 provides for an expert board to be composed of twenty-two members. It will have the task of deciding on matters relating to the Committee for the Evaluation of Technical Specifications and so on. This is extremely complex, completely contrary to the government's promises of a flexible state of staff. With regard to Article 17, sixty-six staff posts are set up with an indefinite contract of employment, twenty-six staff posts under a fixed-term private-law contract and three lawyer posts with an unsuccessful mandate. In the present form of the EACH as a legal person governed by public law, eighty permanent staff and twenty-fifth positions have already been established. In addition, for a period of three years from the entry into force of the draft law and by way of derogation from the provisions, the EACH may be recruited as forty more people under an IORP contract. Article 18 provides for the right to self-determination, as well as the conditions for the secondment of existing permanent staff of the legal person governed by public law of the EACH to be adopted by the draft law-making entity of the EAEC. In both these articles there are no guarantees of dignity. I mentioned the most problematic points in the articles of a problem bill, but the most important thing is that the draft law should be tabled when the National Health System has turned into a one-thematic system of a disease and the other morbidity is referred to private clinical experts who can speculate undisturbed. In other words, you say that private and public partnerships are a panacea, when the ERC collapses, when the ICMs have fallen into six hundred and twenty-sixteen of seventy-three, which were in April 2021 and the hospitals do not have high-fashioned machines, while you do not do the necessary recruitment and we also have reductions due to staff suspensions. The scenery that you have created from the hospitals' monothesy is completely bleak, as all the spaces are bound to the incidents of the coronary and the general incidents are pushed to a ranch, so much of the patients of other morbidity are pushed by hearings in private hospitals, so the health crisis becomes an opportunity. In this context of general collapse, which is mainly reflected in increasing mortality, we will vote against a bill, which works for pandemic, in order to boost the health sector to privatization.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Apajidis. And now we're going to enter the first circle of speakers with one of each parliamentary group. I'm announcing them. It is Mr. Konstantinos Maravegias from New Democracy, Mrs. Theodora Augeris from SYRIZA, Mr. George Fragidis from the Change Movement, Mr. Christos Katsotis from the Communist Party of Greece and Mrs. Sofia - Haido Asmakopoulou from the Greek Solution. The rest of the list will then be followed. Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in his communication of yesterday's priority vaccination of the uninvasive over sixty, once again, did, in my opinion, his debt. Responsibly, with knowledge and seriousness vis-à-vis Greek society, it took over the great political cost that only the real leaders are taking on board. He accepted the possibility of displeasing some in order to protect the vast majority of our most vulnerable fellow citizens and all of this in order to save thousands of lives. By paying attention to the consequences of the pandemic, the Prime Minister did what the Greek people voted for him to lead by entering the frontline of the battle. But at the same time others are fugitive or, worse still, they are undermining the joint effort. I read, in my opinion, misguided SYRIZA reports about alleged punishment and economic extermination of the uninvasive who will not choose the vaccine, but the hundreds. So he does not care about SYRIZA the thousands of human lives that will be lost if the more than sixty are not vaccinated. It is only the hundredth of the fine, which obviously for Mr Tsipras is worse than the death of one or more of our fellow humans. To be consistent with your opposition tactic, in my opinion, you can even recommend that the fine be lifted for the safety belts and for the helmets, and even that those who must use the safety belt and the helmet should be motivated, because it is not a measure that protects human lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u29	Why did you give the young people?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, the intention of the bill to centralise health supplies fortunately remains a common objective - I think - of all the political forces and the value of a single authority, such as EKPH, is self-proof and does not need to argue about its importance. We are all aware of the need to achieve economies of scale and reduce costs for the public, speed up competitive procedures, use of common technical specifications for health, equipment and health services, standardisation of declarations and contract documents, systematic monitoring of the good performance of contracts and, of course, transparency in tenders. So, in my opinion, the question arises: what is the best legal form of a procurement authority that would at the same time ensure all this? And I think the answer that this bill gives is the right one. This is because it is the choice of a State- supervised private-law legal person as opposed to that of the legal person governed by public law that above all guarantees a crucial element, perhaps the most critical of all of all for the success of this body: speed. I therefore believe that the most important gain from a functioning EMCDDA will be the rapid response of the public to the changing conditions of our time and the timely coverage of the needs of public health units. The above-mentioned question, unfortunately, is not so obvious to everyone, Minister. And the left, for example, is voting against the bill because it wants to remain the current legislative framework for the procurement authority. And this despite the fact that, under the current legislative framework, the Health Procurement Authority managed to complete only three competitions and those within five years. So SYRIZA defends a law that led to the above amazing result, three supplies of medicines that were procured in 2014 in the New Democracy and only those that were finally awarded on SYRIZA in 2019, that is to say five years after they were proclaimed. And the fact that the Qualifying Opposition today highlights this performance as an example to be imitated by itself shows the depth of irrationalism to which it has been submerged. I should like to close, Mr President, with something as extreme as the government's pandemic and the quality of the counterpart from SYRIZA. It is outrageous, but at the same time very teaching, ladies and gentlemen. I am therefore tabling a very recent SYRIZA document which also has the signature of its President, Mr Tsipras. This is the timely question that all SYRIZA MPs signed two weeks ago on government measures for the coronary. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Maraveyas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With the signature, therefore, of Mr Tsipras himself, SYRIZA makes it clear that ultimately - I read on word - "the vaccination is not a return passport for anyone's normality". So simple and clear. It is therefore clear that SYRIZA, and not only for the more than sixty, does not generally prejudge the vaccine as the basic means of returning to normality. SYRIZA clearly writes it together, headed by his leader. And the second point of the SYRIZA question is his equally outrageous reference to the people of the ESS. I am rereading from the text signed by all the Members: "It is also known that the defect in clinical covids, which are largely covered - especially in their on-calls - by unexperienced infections and unspecialised in the management of covid -19 medical and nursing personnel, with obvious negative effects on the good outcome of a significant number of incidents, especially in the hospitals of the province." In simple terms, SYRIZA tells us that the staff of the ESS who cares for patients covid is inappropriate because they do not have the necessary knowledge and experience. As Mr. Tsipras and the SYRIZA MPs are probably more relevant in matters of hospitalization than the people of the RIS connect the negative outcome of many incidents, they claim, with the incomplete knowledge of doctors and nurses especially in the province's hospitals, as they say. And medically speaking, I wonder: A few days ago, when Mr. Tsipras was in Volos' hospital, was that what he went to tell the workers? That they're irrelevant? Maybe the unrelated are not in the ESS, but are they in the SYRIZA? I have to say'relevant', because if I say that they know the truth, but willingly they undermine public health, then we have to talk about other things. So I wonder where else have we heard such outrageous complaints about the vaccine and patient covid hospitals in the ESS? Only in the negative area, which apparently attempts to enlist SYRIZA with a purely humanist attitude. Minister, the time has finally come for the overrun of misery and for the recognition of the positive measures brought by the government, and I would like, on this occasion, to acknowledge the grant of the EUR 900 subsidy to a hundred thousand health workers from the National Health System in view of holidays. This is a measure of symbolic, but also of essential value to those who give more than a year and a half the battle of pandemic in the front line. These people, the New Democracy honors them in words and in deeds and will continue, ladies and gentlemen, to be next to them after the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u31	And we thank Mr. Maraveya. The reason is now that, after the Step, the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance, Mrs Theodora Augeris, has been sanitized.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it was not necessary for my colleague to get tired of a majority in order to refer to the statements and reports of the SYRIZA Members and his Chief, but simply to read the speeches of the Prime Minister, his Chief of State, the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis and the excerpts from the interviews. In fact, all this was recently, last November, where Mr Mitsotakis made it clear that he was against compulsoryity, that it is in favour of encouraging and persuasive that he has this measure of partial compulsoryity that has been applied to health and that you cannot necessarily lead people to the decision to make the vaccine. To him ask him and ask him if all these communications he does and if all these interviews give them just to record his lies and self - dissents. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over by the Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs SAKOPRAFA.]] Now, it is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that the government's crime is lasting. Despite our warnings, the Prime Minister and his ministers of health - the current, former, regular, shadowy - and any ones who are or represent the ministers within the final chaos of Maximus continue, as if nothing were happening, to lie and underestimate the intelligence of the world with the unscientific falsehood about the pandemic of the invaders. They have left public hospitals and their staff at the mercy of the pandemic and have slandered doctors at once, patients at once. First the young, now the people over sixty years old. Just like it suits government propaganda every time. The Government of the Nea Democrat Republic, which has known since war and even outside Greek borders, has allowed the pandemic to be riding inside and has put fences inside the Greek society. The Government of New Democracy divides, impoverishes and punishes the people who live in this country. It is a government that puts its people at risk. It is an inhuman government and this inhumanity you come to legislate on it - this constitutional and scientifically questionable requirement - with a last minute amendment, without even listening to the very serious objections of both scientists and specialists and constitutionalists. And your inhumanity costs 100 euros a head. You're so cynical and so dangerous! Amid the most dangerous outbreak of the pandemic, depleted by sanitary personnel, subordinated to structures and health services in red, the government is not going to go through any - but - substantial legislative intervention, which reminds the minimum of a policy for the protection of public health and the public interest. Instead, he chooses, in the most challenging way, to make a policy on private pockets. This time privatizing the health supply system. They've certainly been ahead of you, Minister, and other incidents in the same project, I don't know if you're looking for them in a google search on your phone. By your ministerial mandate - signature - probably in the truth of your Deputy - you ordered the suspension of scheduled surgery at public hospitals, putting at risk human lives, filling in anguish patients and families who cannot afford to go to a private clinic. While, just Monday - last Monday, a new document, this time the Hippocrates Hospital of Thessaloniki, was published for the suspension of emergency surgery, due to a lack of coverage by anestheticists. This document simply postpones all the emergency surgery, which is referred to as features in this document, 'will be postponed until the pandemic is intensified or new staff will come'. And here, we don't understand exactly. Are you back on the matter of suspending the emergency surgery after the wave of protests that has erupted, or are you still prejudicing this inhumane policy? Because, in another official document, the EKAB in Thessaloniki, clear instructions are given for patients, who are not ill by Covid -19, to be transported from public hospitals to private clinics, which will be paid with warm, clean, public money. Repeatedly, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance calls for the contracts concluded by the government with the clinical leaders to be submitted to Parliament. Demonstratively, our request has been discredited for many months. I wonder if there's anything you're doing, something that's not done secretly and transparently, for you. And here I would like to raise the request, where are the conventions - the agreements, as you say, of the Ministry - with these private clinics? And if you don't get tired, I'd tell you to start with the example of Thessaloniki. Where these conventions are posted, Mr Plouris, we also find them, because we are looking for them and do not find them. And if you don't want to be late, I'd be happy to hear you here, testify to them here. Tell us. I do not want to dwell on the question of what happened on SYRIZA on the question of the principle of health supplies. I would just like to ask you, why you lowered this system, did you deceive the EACH with its existing structure so that for two years it would not open a central competition, for example, for the supply of protection against pandemic? And here, I guess, you'd prefer the multiple direct assignments. You probably preferred uncontrolled and uncontrolled public contracts and health supplies. All, of course, under the pretext of pandemic. [[It can be seen from the end of the speech made by the honourable Member at this point that the end of the debate is closed.]] Everywhere, in every institution of your Ministry, the same situation prevails. I'll get you another example. For months now, both your predecessor, Mr Kikilias, and you yourself, have not answered the question, the parliamentary committee that we have submitted to you, on what the situation in IFET is. We were asking a question. Can you answer us or answer the publication of the "Republic", which says they are having a party at the IFET with exports of medicines that do not exist in our country and are imported in order to be given to patients with rare conditions? [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Augeris, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do all this or not, Mr. Plearis? Answer what you intend to do. You've also turned the IFET into a micrograph of the CDC. The Novartis scandal repeats itself or new protagonists. It is clear that you support your every action in the temporary, private and micro-party interest. You seek a communication overheating and misinformation of the public about everything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, Madam President - and I thank you for the time you have given me, more than the time laid down in the Rules of Procedure - by saying this: Even in the EACH recommendation your only concern is to organise the communiqué propaganda mechanism at the outset, with a cherry on the cake, this introduction of the impunity for this army that you will bring into this body, without the procedures of the selection of days. There is no precedent for a democratic government to legislate, which legislates the impunity of derogating from the law. But you can be sure that this government, this regime will soon be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Frangidis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the legislation to be passed by the Ministry of Health provides for the conversion of a body supervised by the Ministry of Health, the National Central Authority for Health Supply, by a legal person governed by private law. The special report says that this change gives greater flexibility and efficiency to decapitation than delays, slow-moving procedures by which legal entities governed by public law move. You are not convinced of your good intentions, Minister. The government's writing sample is negative. It wasn't the form of the legal person for any malfunctions of the EMCDDA. Your indifference to improve your function by appropriate interventions, it is responsible. A sound proof is also the case of EGE, which, although changed form, did not produce better results. Two years of pandemic and you're still legislating by way of derogation. You use extraordinary circumstances as an excuse and you do not even conduct a central competition. Use the pandemic alibi to justify a loss of control over health expenditure. For two years, there has been no inspection of supplies, not only in the health sector, but nowhere. We do not know what path the numerous donations made to meet increased needs in the health system have taken all this time. Despite the fact that we have often raised within Parliament the issue of setting up a permanent donation mechanism, with the dual aim of making better use of them, but also of transparency, you are constantly proving that you do not have sound ears. As for the flexibility and effectiveness that you claim to have in the new ESDP, it is doubtful whether this is achieved through a chaotic and multitude of administrative systems recommended by subsequent bureaucracy and dyskinesia. It is noteworthy that the lack of objectivity and dignity in the selection of the new management board, which is the sole responsibility of the Minister for Health. The choice of additional IASC staff to be recruited by the adoption of the law is without clear criteria and, of course, without an APA procedure. A number of aspects of organisational, operational and economic remuneration are referred to in the list of items covered by the Staff Regulations. Obviously, your greatest concern at the moment when the Greek people are experiencing unprecedented situations that directly affect their lives and health is how you will ensure absolute control of the EACH which will ensure that the competitive procedures for supplies to health and the management of the money of the Recovery Fund and the ESRF are checked. We would expect at this stage, with the pandemic, the new "Omicon" mutation at the forefront of bringing, Mr Minister, a bill that would shield the health system and upgrade the public care structures that would protect the health of the citizens. On the contrary, two years now, you remain as uncomfortable and unwitting. You maintain the same management attitude to a problem that requires serious treatment and not emblematic solutions. You choose to leave the National Health System tragically subordinated, crushed, beyond the limits of its strength with serious infrastructural deficiencies. You are surpassing the fact that with the blockage in place of hospitals due to covid the accessibility of patients with other diseases is reduced. Moreover, with the new directive leading to a 80% reduction in regular surgery in public hospitals, thousands of patients remain hostage to the standby lists without treatment with serious problems that degrade and the quality of their lives, but often have fatal endings. There is no point in this, of course, in the mental health of the citizens, which is causing a tragic deterioration. Minister, we have six to eight thousand cases every day, unfortunately, over eighty to a hundred deaths, i.e. "leaving" a village every day. According to yesterday's figures, we have six hundred and sixty-four fellow citizens in the ICMs, an increase from November 1st to November 30th 60% of those intertwined to fight for their lives, whether in ICMs or in chambers, with elementary equipment and care, and with what this means for the quality of care they receive. In Northern Greece, there is no Clinic Clinic free. They're all too full. There are dozens of patients who are hospitalized in chambers. For example, the Kilkis Hospital, which we have been talking about for two years, is the only hospital, despite the fact that last year you said that there will be post notices. Finally, I would like to comment on the article in the amendment on prescribing unsafe ones. Are you really trying to control expenditure on uninsured people at this juncture, with the public health system overloaded and the doctors on the edge of exhaustion? What ESS doctor is true within the pandemic can he accept to be charged with this obligation? The most likely is that the doctor will react and, of course, the citizen will be afflicted. It is clearly necessary to find a way of controlling multiple AMCAs, but this in a next pandemic time. To God, we have other needs today! They're sighing the hospitals. We have deaths every day. More attention should be paid to the National Health System and to people who have troubles, hardships, sacrifices and often loss of life serve the goal of meeting the needs of pandemic patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Comrade George Lambroulis was put in detail in the bill and documented our negative position on it. I want to talk about the amendments. I shall begin by referring to this amendment to the mandatory vaccination. This is an unacceptable and provocative regulation of the government. It is a continuation of the compulsory law that flew out of hospitals of six thousand sanitaries, creating dangerous conditions for the operation of already subordinated public health establishments, and now attempts to apply the same measure of the mandatory vaccination to over sixty years, with the bogeyman of the EUR 100 for every month. By this measure, the Government confirms that the vaccination has taken it fully into individual responsibility, without it taking even the minimum measures required in order to address existing fears and doubts from part of the population. Individual responsibility and penalties are certain that they cannot function as substitutes for the lack of organised and systematic information, the necessary pre-vaccination checks, the follow-up of people after vaccination, the understaffed public health units, the almost non-existent primary health care and the measures to protect public health, which are cut and sewn in accordance with the wishes of business groups. The government is accountable for following the unscientific one-way of vaccination to deal with the pandemic, while it is shown that the necessary vaccination if it is not combined with all the other necessary prevention and protection measures, which is the responsibility of the state to take them, such as the ones dealing with co-financing in public transport, at workplaces and in schools, cannot have any significant effect. This is confirmed by recent scientific data, where even vaccinated ones are infected, diseased, transmitted the virus, as well as increasing the rate of vaccinated ones that end up in the ICUs. We will vote 'KATA' in this amendment. I would also like to dwell on the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Labour, one entitled 'Extreme financial support for vulnerable pensioners in the year 2021'. Who really led and continues to drive thousands of retired, thousands of working people and other population groups into poverty and impoverishment? Who creates vulnerable people? The policy of all of you has loaded you on the back of the workers, the pensioners, the self-employed, the bio-family farmers, the waged scientists, the capitalist crisis and capitalist development, with the pandemic being an opportunity for the system and its political staff for greater attack. You broke the wages, the pensions, you robbed the income with the unbearable taxes and the raisins. You have led much of the population to poverty and impoverishment. This is the work of all of you! And what are you doing now? You share the poverty, the carbs created by many keep it all for the few, the monopolies and business groups and share when crusts to many. No one can and must not be compatible with the farm system, with capitalist barbarism. She's hiding the fake argument about the amount of emergency aid for the crumbs of mocking. The bed of demands cannot and should not be the crunches of 250 euros for low-retired people once a year, which reminds us here that it was the ESS that was taken by the low-retireees for every month. Pensioners demand the reintroduction of pensions, the third and fourth pensions, a request supported by the JRC and we now, as many times as we have before, put forward an amendment to this effect. You give this sum of EUR 250 million to an amount of EUR 210 million, while at the same time only the fourteenth pension abolished in 2012 has deprived the pensioners of EUR 2,2 billion, that is, almost ten times the amount of crustaceans that the current government shares, but also the previous government. With the ESS that SYRIZA abolished, which was a permanent income for the low-pension workers - which I said before, almost EUR 230 per month - they were deducted from more than EUR 800 million annually, a sum of four times what you currently pay them back as a dividend. Apart from the cuts imposed on pensioners, it is also a burden on various carpets. This EUR 210 million is therefore being given, while the pensioner's pocket of EUR 410 million has already been grabbed through the Solidarity Contribution, which continues for 2022 with another EUR 398 million. If we add the cuts from all the memoranda, the accuracy and all of this, the participation in medicines, the exact health services, then the picture grows and the pillaging is increasing even further. So who do you support with the poverty you are creating? Where's that wealth going? It goes right to the big chapter, 4 billion euros for NATO, billions for the Rafale and the freshmen - I forget how we say it - hundreds of millions of dollars for business groups, such as AEGEAN, provocative tax exemptions on large capital, shielding competitiveness and labour-intensive exploitation - elastic, unpaid overtime with Hatzidakis, who scanned everything, and, of course, with the Recovery Fund EUR 59 billion directed at business groups. With all this, then, you shield capitalist profitability and you increasingly accumulate poverty and misery in the working population. The people pay for the benefits in the chapter, lead him to dead ends, hard to walk and then share the crumbs. The JRC and today, as several times, again tabled the amendment to the minimum wage, EUR 751, for the reintroduction of collective labour agreements, the abolition of the Brutsi-Achtsioglou law which prohibits collective bargaining, the reintroduction of the thirteenth and fourteenth wages, so as not to pay anyone for health and education, that is to say, for all those who reject the governments and which workers through their struggle can impose. These amendments have been tabled and we would like - in any case - to have the position of the rest of the parties, who are today making a false argument about crumbs, and who have effectively removed the carboli from the workers themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill which shows your priorities on a celebrity basis. Your priorities are to change the legal person under public law under the name "National Central Health Suppliers Authority" and to become a legal person under the same name. Your aim at this critical health moment in the middle of the new wave of pandemic should have been to strengthen hospitals and the ESS. It is at least provocative to ignore the explosion in intubated and the faintness of doctors who have reached their limits in such a provocative way. So, as you say, you are moving forward in modernising the process of health supplies by privatising, lack of transparency and overpowering ministers to act at once. You persist in the same criminal errors, mistakes that the Greek Solution has denounced since the first moment. Filled with the ICUs and you still play with the health of Greek citizens. You persecuted doctors, sent out nurses, suspended them at the most critical moment in the battle. They are lost every day tens of human lives and you have looked at helping people into Principles. And as if the unbearable pressure of the ESS did not arrive, the country remains unarmed in the new dangerous mutation. This change, as you say, aims to create a flexible and effective health supply system. We have too many reservations about this target. It is particularly vague and does not convince anyone, nor does it, of course, justify the abolition of the Legal Personnel of Public Law and the establishment of the Legal Personnel of Private Law. Similarly, there is great ambiguity in terms of the purposes and responsibilities of the EACH. It is so great that it will eventually not be understood how exactly this change will provide greater flexibility in the system of supplies, products and services. The new legal person, which will be owned by 100% of the Greek State, will actually work for the public interest or for the private interests. I guess the second one. The coordination and supervision of central supplies of products and health services are carried out by a Legal Personnel of Private Law, while in order to serve the purposes of the EMCDDA, it is stated that public-private partnership projects may be carried out. That is also eloquently unacceptable. As the same admissibility is that the President and the Vice-President of the Board will be appointed by a decision of the Minister of Health. If that's not a photographic device, then what is it? What can we say about the President's responsibilities, which you can even recommend to the Board the setting up of committees and working groups from external partners, which will enable him to assign cases on a case-by-case basis to external lawyers, natural or legal persons whose remuneration cannot exceed EUR 20,000 annually? With whoever wants, therefore, without conditions, nothing. The other seven members of the Board of Directors are also proposed by Ministers either from the EEA Commander or from the Central Board of Health Regions. You're not stopping anywhere! The wrestling's not over! The internal rules of procedure will regulate in an entirely subjective manner issues such as the more specific correction of the authority's services to organic units, the responsibilities and the way in which they are staffed, the total organic positions of staff, the formal qualifications of appointment or recruitment by industry and specialisation, etc. A Directorate-General consisting of six Directorates-General and sixteen Divisions is also set up. Why so much? Do all this need? Will they help or will they attack red tape? While in order to fulfil the six positions of the Heads of Administrations in the same way, individuals from the private sector will be able to participate in the process. In addition, the committees may also participate in individual committees. Our disagreement in all this attempt to privatize is obvious. As far as you are concerned, you are planning to conclude programme contracts and memorandums of cooperation with non-profit organizations. It must finally enter a perfect service of private interests!Ministerial superpowers in the part of exterminating provisions give and take. The health budget is not just a cost. It is an investment, an investment that will benefit the entire Greek society. But you seem to be ignoring it. We read in the publications - which we will also produce - that the pressure on the hospitals in Northern Greece is unbearable. What are you doing about it? While approximately 35% of the new cases recorded in recent days have been fully vaccinated. The new outbreak of the pandemic has caused a heart attack in hospitals. And while you had all the time to prepare them, staff them, you decided to weaken them and leave them to their luck. The development of public health needs a plan, not yours, of the logic of'seeing and doing'. So you drive her mathematically to the cliff without a return. In closing, once again we tell you. Ensure opportunities and serious incentives to return to all Greeks and Greek women who left in the years of the memorial and period of economic work abroad. We in the Greek Solution have stressed this in the past and we say it again until you understand it: A modern state that respects its citizens must ensure effective and at the same time quality health benefits, not threaten them and impose them fines or leave them to God's mercy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, a statement to this House. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its report to the Prosecutor's request for the authorisation of criminal prosecution against a Member. On behalf of SYRIZA, Mr. Michaelides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in commenting yesterday's statement by the Prime Minister and in relation to the introduction of this amendment by the Minister today, I would like to point out - and I think it is our duty to point this out - that these measures, such measures, plunge society into despair and division. They actually deepen this social division that exists today and trigger social automation. In fact, they are plundering a serious attempt to deal with and they are turning away from a serious effort to tackle the pandemic. In relation to the bill that the government is introducing today. It is indeed the case that the debate on a bill shows so unparalleled with reality and, finally, it cannot be assumed that the most good thing is an attempt to hide reality and an attempt to change the agenda. Of course, I am talking about the reality of pandemic, the dramatic worsening of epidemiological indicators, both in the number of cases and deaths, when the ESS is suffocating in a suffocating way and for a long time because the government has been reluctant to admit that it considers the decisive strengthening and financing of the public health system to be unnecessary. And since the expression "pressure on the ESS" does not reveal to its fullness the essence of things, we are talking about the inability of the public health system to respond with fundamentally sufficient not only to the care of patients with Covid, but also to the treatment of many other serious and urgent problems, precisely because personnel and infrastructure are not sufficient. Otherwise, the government is stuck in the successful response of the first wave and the announcement of the end of the pandemic. It is only by the fact that from the end of March and then we have been consistently above the average of deaths in proportion to the population, that it is sufficient to show the dramatically incorrect approach that the government is insisting on. Not to mention, of course, the failure of vaccinations or other dimensions - tragic proportions - of its policy. On the basis of this approach, in the face of the need to shield the public health system, we should not be surprised at the contents of the bill that the Ministry of Health brings to plenary today. As our representatives and most opposition parties have said, during the debate in the Commission, the draft law is the transformation of the EACH by a legal person of a public authority into private law. This option, of course, should not surprise us for another simple reason: for it is now the multiple time that something similar is happening, which is obviously linked to the New Democracy' s idealism against the public. Here I would remind you of the tragic development in the return of contractors to hospitals. Recently, the Hospital of Chios decided to grant cleanliness to contractors. Although it is well known, of course, I should recall the conversion of the EGE by a legal person governed by public law to a legal person under private law immediately after the October 2019 elections, only six months after its establishment, that is, before, they even have time to show its alleged malfunctions. However, also in July 2020, you created the Quality Assurance Agency for Health, the PPPY, in the form of the public limited company. It is true that our objections do not only concern the type, that is, the legal form and the name, but also the content of the changes you have been trying for almost two and a half years, which relate on the one hand to the weakening of the requirements and, in general, to the operating framework for public bodies and, on the other, to the premium for various private interests. The latter also reflects in most other dimensions the health ministry's policy. I will only stand by the wave of replacement of contract workers, such as, for example, the cleanliness that I have mentioned, but also the feeding and storage of hospitals with contractors. Indeed, because I referred to the Chios Hospital, I would point out to you that the annual cost of the contractor, which has proved to be higher than the cost of concluding individual contracts on the basis of the financial study itself in the hospital. The idea of neoliberal perception in her majesty. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Madam President, for a minute. As regards the bill, the changes made to SYRIZA’s founding law of 2017 are few and targeted. To paraphrase the cliché, 'the neoliberal devil hides himself in the details', such as, for example, in paragraph 3b of Article 4, where there is express mention of the possibility of implementing public-private partnership projects - your very beloved PPP - to achieve the aims of the EBRD. It is well known that the neo-democratic version of neoliberalism gives tone of opacity and a customer perception. The truth is that so far, because of the reactions but also because of the pandemic, the government has not succeeded in implementing, to the extent that it would like, the plan for the deterioration of the public health sector and the brave concession of ERM to private individuals. However, it continues to prepare the legal and institutional ground for these options, often not visible by the naked eye, but, of course, completely viable. This bill is part of this plan, and that is why we cannot vote for it. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. On behalf of the New Democracy, the Member, Mrs Skondra, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the whole planet has been experiencing very difficult health conditions for almost two years. The pandemic hit multiple, ongoing waves, causing significant loss of human life, enormous damage to the national economies of all states, social isolation and psychological pressure on citizens. At the moment, once again, all the states are engaging in the pace of the fourth wave and the 'Omicon' mutation. Governments, social forces, the entrepreneurial world, the community of health, the people of letters and arts, all who have access to public speech must be activated so that the self-determinations of reaction and refusal are stopped to misinform and assemble our citizens in order to overcome this continuing nightmare. This is a collective effort, in which we are all called upon to contribute in whatever ways we can. The state, for its part, must, in addition to efforts to tackle the current health crisis, provide for strengthening our national health system. This includes the proposed draft law of the Ministry of Health. With the regulations and improvements it introduces, reshapes and modernises the system of procurement in the field of health. In any other civilised state of the Western world, the natural reaction would be 'you are doing very well', as a public sector procurement system - especially for the sensitive area of health and, indeed, for a period of vigilance imposed by the pandemic - must be modern, fast and effective. Is this happening in our homeland? Do the opposition parties support the initiative? Do they contribute positively to the drafting of the bill in order to improve points that they consider needing change? Unfortunately, no. Once again you are negative, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition. We have the negatives of the pandemic and vaccine, to which indirectly every little bit and a little close the eye, we also have you here, the negatives of any attempt to modernise the state for the better. Negatives of reality, negatives of progress, negatives of effectiveness. Blinded by your dogmatism, you refuse to admit that "some form of rot is found in the kingdom of Danimarkia". Do you not understand that the way the National Central Health Procurement Authority operates, as it is today, is having real problems? Do you not see that there are great delays and steep procedures which create deadlocks and force the state to re-legise the costs incurred? Did they not tell you that since 2017, which created this procurement authority, until now only a few successful tenders have been completed? Didn't you hear that digital tools are not being used, resulting in the extremely slow introduction of new species? Did you not know that the result of all this is 80% with 90% of the supplies ultimately being implemented with direct markets? If you are actually ignoring all the above, then you are not just negative, you are completely inappropriate to pursue politics, even from the field of Anti-Population. You better turn to another occupation, unless everything is deliberately done, and those who believe that there is a plan of sabotage to the national effort of the government and citizens to curb the pandemic are right. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no luxury to spend our time with the denial of counter-population. Clearly: Do you want to contribute substantially to the development of a new framework that serves transparency, flexibility and good management of public money in the field of health supplies? If you want, here we are to find the best possible solutions. If you don't want to, state it and move on alone. We won't encapsulate the whole country in the inertia. That is why I would like to congratulate the Minister for Health, Mr Plouris, on the seriousness, sobriety, labour, and for this draft law which brings Parliament to a vote. The establishment of the legal person under private law now under the name of the National Central Authority of Health Procurement, EAEC, will help achieve greater transparency, flexibility, acceleration and effectiveness in the conduct of the tenders, in the procurement process, a principle that remains part of the public sector, belongs to 100% of the Greek State, introduces digital systems into the operational design of the tenders, while fully respecting the new regulatory framework of public procurement. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of the global health pandemic. It is not the right time for dogmatism, ideological buckles and meaningless controversies. The public health system calls for practical and substantial solutions to existing problems. It is therefore time for all the social, economic, political and scientific forces of the country to work together, to create those tools that will strengthen and shield public health, both today and to tackle pandemic and tomorrow, to provide high quality products and best health services to the citizens, with the lowest possible burden on public money. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u43	Thank you too, my colleague. Mrs Anagnastopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Madam President. "The harder we are and the more mandatory we put, the greater reactions that cause this." Mitsotakis, 5-11-2021, MEGA television channel. "A man of eighty years and over, who does not want to be vaccinated himself, and in principle he is at risk, falls under the framework of individual choice and obligacies there runs counter to the Constitution in the S.H.E. and the Bioethics Committee.’; Minister of Health, Thanos Plearis. Resolution 2361/2021 of the Council of Europe, which we all know is how important an institution is for rights and freedoms, which was voted for by the Members of the New Democracy, states that vaccination is not compulsory and no one can be pushed politically, socially, if they do not want it. This requires the general right of self-determination by all national constitutions and by the Convention on Human Rights, by the European Convention. Of course, there are restrictions in this right and it is important, as in every right, because of the protection of public health in this case. However, the substance of the right cannot be appended. Hence the obligation on health workers or people who come into contact with vulnerable groups - in such occupations - but with respect to proportionality, not completely deprivation of wages, because that is where we are starting and disseminating the culture of punishment. But limiting the right for reasons of public health, especially in special groups, but respecting the proportionality. It is very important for our societies to maintain and after pandemic some great, fundamental cultural values. The mandatory vaccination of the elderly is therefore multiple anti-constitutional. And we are not saying it as SYRIZA, it is said by the constitutionalists of this country - and not just - who are not familiar with SYRIZA. And it is not only unconstitutional because they are a general category of the population, but, above all, to the extent of the individual administrative fine - take note of the individual administrative fine - without having the right to object. This is directly contrary to Article 20(2) of the Constitution. Without any hearing by administrative bodies, an administrative fine shall be imposed. Watch out for that! Watch it! An administrative fine without a previous hearing. In addition, the access of ADI, the Independent Public Income Authority, which will impose the fine, in sensitive personal data, such as the health of each individual, every person, also runs counter to an article in the Constitution and the European Data Protection Regulation, etc. In other words, without man being able to hear about this administrative measure, with the intervention of the AACC in sensitive personal data, we have imposed a punishing measure. And now we're coming to the critical. The government failed. So the issue with dead people, whose number is creepy for our country, brings us to the first positions in the number of dead people in Europe. What's got to be done? And here, I really do not want to address the government nor do I want to make an opposition. The government works the way it works, but I really want to address our fellow citizens. Vaccination is an act of solidarity, it is an act of collective, social responsibility and it is an act of love for one another to preserve social cohesion. This campaign that we all have to do with everyone cannot be ignored and replaced by administrative measures of this type. What the government is doing - and that is what all the citizens of this country must understand - what is it? Social automation. It's always a group of people. Instead of infiltrating the groups, the geographical areas - because we see such accusations - where we have great resistance to vaccination, rather than a campaign that will bring the great culture that doctors and nurses and all the staff of hospitals to the forefront of this country, a culture of solidarity that we have had years to live in, to listen to those who fight the front line, what is the government doing? It says 'obligation, a fine and I did my duty'. So, how do we get out of this pandemic? Having abolished the concept of freedom and the right, but above all the concept of generosity and solidarity? I will close, Madam President, if you will allow me a minute. If the government really wants to see reality and inspire society, as Portugal has done. Why did Portugal reach 90% -95% of vaccinations? Unless you want to disperse this stereotype again, the Greeks are inexperienced and uncivilized, while all others are good. Why did a government come up, which he said? The first thing I have to do is support the national health system, so that I can build this culture of solidarity within the community and trust between the state and the citizens. The Portuguese have succeeded. Why didn't we? Why doesn't Mr. Mitsotakis wonder: 'Why did I not make it and have such resistance?' There will always be a percentage in all societies - we have seen it in Europe too - which, for ideological reasons or for any reason, refuses, but there is also a large proportion that fears, which is not up to date. So, instead of all the effort, we get to measures of this type, like young people last year. I'll close by saying one thing: Mr. Plori, see the reality as Minister of Health. All hospitals in the regions are narrow because they have become monothematically, they have been 'covidi' and they need the hospitals in their region, which are collapsed. And I would like to mention to you - our rapporteur, Mr Marcos - has mentioned the Tower Hospital, which is falling apart. We don't see it as SYRIZA, people themselves call it. It breaks down the Hospital of Egypt, which means that all the decompression that could be given to Patras, this decompression no longer exists. Doctors from the "Saint Andreas" of Patras are leaving for an essay at the Hospital of Pyrgos. We don't. Look at the reality. You don't own the reality. You need to see her. So you have - and we have asked you questions - Mr Plouris, fixed-term contractors. It can't be in the middle of...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u45	There is an amendment. Look at her.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u46	Oh, is that so? Okay, sorry and good. And I wish all these people would become an indefinite time, because they cover constant and constant needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u47	Your Honor, you have to close down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u48	Extension, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u49	Yeah, extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u50	Expansion gives, does not give what we all ask, and people themselves ask. So I conclude by saying this: let us take out a spirit of solidarity and collectiveness, with respect for rights and not such administrative measures, fines, which do nothing but increase social automation. War is not done in such ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u52	Can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u53	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u54	I will answer all the questions you have raised in my main speech. Mrs Anagnostopoulos, however, has raised an issue of unconstitutionality here. And I ask, does the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group submit a request for unconstitutionality? Because there is a constitutional order. No party submitted a request for unconstitutionality on compulsoryity. Or, therefore, you accept the MEP's position and put forward an issue of unconstitutionality or you do not accept it. Question: Will you submit a request for unconstitutionality? Is there a parliamentary group that raises the issue of unconstitutionality? Because when there are unconstitutional positions, I see a distance from the Members of Parliament. Because if there is a parliamentary group that believes there is an anti-constitutional provision, it should raise the issue of unconstitutionality, as required by the Rules of Procedure of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u56	Madam President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u57	Just for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u58	Minister, I think I have the right as a Member to speak out loudly, I think, and as I think my conscience allows me, without necessarily having tabled a request for unconstitutionality. I read the prescribers. I saw it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, my colleague. It is now up to the Secretary of State for Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Michailidou, to put it on two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to table two amendments. One is the Ministry of Labour and the other is in collaboration with the Ministry of Health on our part. On the amendment from the Ministry of Labour. This is the second year when our fellow citizens and all of us, unfortunately, are beneficiaries of the health crisis and of the economic consequences of this, so we are coming as government, as Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and continue to do so: we are aiming to strengthen the most vulnerable. Here in the National Parliament you voted two weeks ago for exceptional support to the beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income. So in the same sense we are asking for three more targeted aid to our very vulnerable fellow citizens. First, for the low-pensioners. That is to say, our fellow citizens who either have an annual taxable income of EUR 7,200 or an annual taxable income of EUR 14,400. For these vulnerable fellow citizens, we have come a very difficult year - and health and financial - and we support them with EUR 250 each, plus EUR 50 for all dependent members who have their households. Single aid in December. We are accordingly targeting two vulnerable groups: the uninsured over-ages and our fellow citizens with disabilities. To the uninsured over-ages, which are our fellow citizens, those who have not guaranteed a pension right, belong to the third age and receive only EUR 360 per month, we come and support them with an equivalent allowance of EUR 250. To our fellow citizens with disabilities, namely the hundreds of seventy-three thousand of our fellow citizens with disabilities and also - be careful, because it may be a small number, but its symbolism is very large - to parents and parents with disabilities, we come and give equivalent allowance of 250 euros, one-off in December, so that we can help them in view of the difficulties of incarcerating this period and the many disabilities they have, which make them even more vulnerable to the pandemic. Now, in the second amendment, which we together with the Ministry of Health, what are we doing? We restore a very great injustice and effectively deserve, if you like, all our fellow citizens who carry or suffer from the HIV or hepatitis B virus, while at the same time increasing the chances, opportunities and opportunities of our children who are inside an institution to find the right family for them. On the one hand, we want to increase the pool of people, our fellow citizens, who can find a child either as foster parents or as contractors. On the other hand, however, we are restoring, correcting, an injustice against our fellow citizens for years - four decades now - they may live with HIV or hepatitis B. And I start from second part, since today, forty years later, the symbolism of World HIV Day is more important, if ever, than ever. Despite the justified reaction of the Association of Sero-positive Greece "Theoretical Voice" and the Association of Patient Hepats "Prometheus" to the then leadership of the Ministry, when he passed Law 4538 and did not leave sero-positive people or people suffering from hepatitis B, but is in the process of treating, adopting or becoming contractors to a child. Today this needs to be changed, and today this is changing. There is no question, but there is no doubt about us that the certification of the health of candidate parents is a reasonable prerequisite, which is rightly laid down. But be fair and be clear: The restrictions imposed by the law must protect against real risks, as medical science alone defines. The legislator, all of you, cannot under any circumstances and is not entitled to relativise scientific knowledge. How much more so when the risk is rights of citizens who have been facing social racism for decades, discrimination due to ignorance, prejudice and deeply rooted prejudices. Today science is clean. HIV and hepatitis B are not transmitted with or are not transmitted by common use of objects. But what is more afraid of our positive fellow citizen today? She's not afraid of the disease itself. This is because he fears marginalisation, fears the stigma of people next to him, often of his family, of his relatives, of his colleagues. Ignorance and misinformation, these are diffuse. What do we know today? We know the famous "U equals U", the "Undetectable equals Untransmittable", in simply Greek that undetectable is non-transmissible. This medical science has given us. But in a very recent survey conducted in the Greek population, we saw that only 20% of Greeks know that undetectable is non-transmissible. 68% of the Greeks say they would never have a relationship with an HIV agent. Today, forty years later, we know this, I have heard, if you like, a very touching story of a nurse telling it at an event of the Stephen of Letters and Arts very recently: "The disease, any illness," said the nurse, "it is not moral evil. The disease is and remains only a natural evil, and in it is HIV. In fact, with modern antiretroviral treatments currently administered to seropositive patients, the virus may be reduced to such a level that, being undetectable, does not go to love partners, but does not even pass from the mother to the foetus.’ So against this truth the state does not have the right to insist on an unfair exclusion. Beyond the right of our fellow citizens to become parents, either present or contractors, there is also the right of children themselves to find the right to a family. We've done everything we can. We have simplified the procedures too much. Within nine months, someone can become a foster parent. Within six months he can become a contractor. The process is transparent and all digital. There is now a single digital allowance for all contractors. There are now extended age limits for all contractors. From now on - I hope that all the parties in Parliament will vote for it - and our fellow citizens who are seropositive and have hepatitis B, with appropriate treatment and appropriate clauses to protect the health of their children, will be able to adopt and become contractors. In the same spirit, these people are also part of e-prescription. There can be no unfair treatment between our fellow citizens who are positive and who are not positive when it comes to prescribing and facilitating their problems every day. With ease they will take the medications, with ease they will receive the tests, they will immediately and immediately start the treatments and - fundamentally - in their everyday life will not have to go to a hospital every month and especially to a period of COVID. Many of the hospitals they need to go to are reference hospitals, which increase the risk to their own health. Thank you very much. I really think we are all going to vote in favour of this today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too, Madame Undersecretary. Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary a very important bill, which attempts to reshape and modernise the system of supply in the neural area of health, a concisely problematic situation, where the difficult procedures and execution stages that need to be implemented have been carried out, and unfortunately they have so far been a brake on the proper functioning of hospitals and public health structures. As provided for in this draft law, the establishment of the new legal person under private law under the name of the National Central Health Supplies Authority is coming to replace the current legal person governed by public law and, in fact, through the new body we all look forward to increasing transparency and creating a flexible and effective health supply system. This expectation is born of the fact that the modernisation of the National Central Health Procurement Authority will be combined with the introduction of new digital technologies, so the use of digital tools will create a body that will now be able to meet the modern requirements, especially in today's era, in the midst of a pandemic crisis affecting our national health system. This bill attempts to break the blockages and nuggets of years especially since 2017, where few competitions have been successfully completed, with the result that the ESS and the public hospitals operate several times marginally in relation to health materials and logistics. What, then, does the new entity come to offer? The new legal form, in addition to the flexibility offered by public-private partnerships and, of course, once again, the EACH will remain a part of the public sector at an absolute rate of 100%, operating, as one reasonably understands, in order to serve the Greek public, it also contributes to something else. The new legal person will act as a body implementing and making use of the funds through the ESRB programmes and actions provided for by the Recovery Fund. The new enhanced role of the National Central Health Procurement Authority, as described in this draft law, comes to cover through competitions the needs of public health structures in supplies of medical devices, health and pharmaceutical goods and related services. At the same time, the Ministry of Health also assists the diagnostic procedures for the supply of services and goods in the co-financed projects. And I make this special reference to the new form and the strengthening of the role of the National Central Health Procurement Authority because the current operation of the EMCDDA was undeniably dysfunctional. It is also completely inadequate, particularly in the midst of the pandemic and the needs it has created. And let me say here that the reorganisation of the health procurement system will hopefully heal all the open fronts and problems facing nursing establishments and health structures, especially in the region. I am talking about this, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen, because the problems in public hospitals, like those of ours, in Achaea, from where I come from, have not only gone away, but they need immediate solutions. Of course, Mrs Anagnostopoulos, we have had problems in the past six months or a year. For example, I would like to highlight the situation in Karamandaneo General Hospital of Patras Children, which offers its valuable services and not only for the children of the Prefecture of Achaia, but also for the entire western Greece. Of course you are well aware, Minister, because you are well aware of the urgent need for the "Karmandanite" to be staffed with medical personnel. I have recently raised this major issue with the Committee of the Regions, where you have also raised the present. At the same time, however, there are shortcomings in this hospital and in consumable sanitary materials, logistics, while existing buildings and facilities require immediate improvement and upgrading. Such needs are also recorded in the other public nursing establishments of Achaia, as in "Agios Andreas" in Patras, at the General Hospital of Egypt. With this bill, therefore, we hope not only to strengthen the framework of transparency in the central supplies of products and health services, but at the same time to speed up the procedures, so that our hospitals will have all the necessary materials and equipment needed by our doctors and nurses in the obscene and daily battle to save human lives and cannot wait for these things. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a little mention of the objections made by the Com mission on the draft law that we are debating. Let me say that there was no fundamental criticism of this bill. And I think that this is entirely logical, because the main and at the same time rhetorical question is this: who does not want transparency, modernisation and ultimately introduce a class into the health supply system? And because we have heard the Civic Opportunism licking, only rampant, something about strengthening the opacity of supplies and 'days' recruitment to the new National Central Health Procurement Authority, I think that this period, in the midst of a pandemic crisis which is affecting our country, is at least unstable and unfavourable. Just to mention that the new principle will be served with a hundred and twenty-six staff and qualified staff in matters of health supplies and logistics. All posts and employment rights are fully secured in the new legal form. It is not, therefore, simply a new legal form of an organisation that will manage the system of procurement in the field of health. A modern body, an important tool, which, through the planned estimates of the draft law, ensures the operational design of diagnostic procedures, the introduction of digital systems and compliance with the new regulatory framework for public procurement and procurement. In conclusion, Madam President, the draft law as a whole is a targeted effort to finally achieve a transparent, flexible, efficient and modern system of procurement in the neuro-algal area of health. The organisation of public health supplies requires a design that must go hand in hand with speed and not with great delays, costs and quality of products and services. The establishment of the new principle is aimed at and we are convinced that the new body will work in favour of public health, both in terms of quality, supplies and benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u63	Thank you too, my colleague. The Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Villardos, now had the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, have you really thought about what you're doing? Do you personally agree with tabling an amendment of EUR 100 or are you simply accepting it to be Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u65	I suggest it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u66	At first you imposed two rapid test a week on those who are afraid to have a vaccine or have any other reason, costing 10 euros per month or 80 euros per month. Only yesterday were six hundred thousand tests, with a total cost of 6.5 million euros for the citizens. With revenues, of course, for the public about 30% or about 2 million euros. Special taxation, then. Aren't these citizens insured? Don't they pay their contributions every month to the insurance funds? Does not the tests include those for which they are insured? As if that were not enough, you turned the persuasion you invoke into an additional fine of EUR 100 per month. If it is not about five hundred and twenty thousand Greeks over sixty years of age, as it refers to mass communication, it is 52 million per month or over 600 million per year with the ESS recipient. That's all you miss? Is it not shameful and should you not immediately withdraw the amendment on which, at least we have tabled an objection of unconstitutionality?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u67	Now you testified her.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u68	Now we testified her a little while ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u69	We should have reminded you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u70	Please. You think we wrote her in two minutes? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u71	Your rapporteur didn't put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u72	I don't suppose you think we wrote her so quickly. Did you think about what it means to a retired person who gets 400 euros a month and lives in a remote village, with little chance of sticking the virus? Aren't they unconstitutional, like dozens of constitutionalists say? I shall mention just a few examples, not to say that we speak theoretically. Constitutionalist Botopoulos pointed out that the measure imposing a fine has problems from a constitutional point of view, while in the event of recourse to the S.E. He's gonna swallow. With regard to the enforceability of vaccination - always according to the same constitutionalist - the restriction of certain personal freedoms in the context of the general public health interest is legitimate, but not the imposition of a fine. Citizens over sixty should be protected and not paid. The constitutionalist Mr. Chryssogonos said that the first is that he offends the human body's freedom of self-determination. The horizontal measure offends personal freedom to self-determination, without justifying the risk of public health, while depriving the necessary means of survival, if the 100 euros are deducted from the 400 euros one takes a month. The reason why everyone refuses is a personal matter. Costs cannot penetrate people's consciousness. Everyone has a right to their opinion. You can't force him. The measure affects both personal freedom and the principle of equality. While from there on there there are others, such as personal data with the crossroads through Taxisnet and EAFRD. The value of man is offended if you treat him as an object and force him to do something he doesn't want. You're insulting human freedom. After the vote on the measure, everyone can appeal to the courts, where the matter will be decided. Professor of Constitutional Law Mr. Kasimatis said that coercion is a crime against humanity, because international law is being violated from now on: there must be no intervention in the body without consent. All the principles of democracy are violated. Where a measure is imposed, no action in the body shall be taken without consensus. To do so, it should be widespread infectious disease, which should have specific characteristics and precisely know its risk. Finally, Professor of Public Law and Social Security at the Department of Public Administration at the University of Panteios Kontiadis said that "the imposition of fines on those who do not wish to be vaccinated is unconstitutional, as an exaggeration of the autonomy of the person, as much as we are angry at the attitude of the individual." Today's bill is another Memorandum of Understanding, recalling that when a country has lost its financial independence from its debts its national sovereignty is an illusion. In particular, the centralisation of health supplies is a constant requirement of the troika or institutions or of enhanced supervision, as is called today, already from the fourth evaluation and from the first days of the current regime, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. Its aim is to solve the problems in hospital supplies, mainly in relation to their debts. While the reference to the launching of this draft law exists at least from the 7th evaluation, about a year ago, and we will also be tabling it in the Minutes. If one reads the evaluations, one knows very well what will happen in the next few days and the next few months in Greece. In particular, the fourth assessment of November 2019 states that there is a problem with the central procurement service, where its implementation is promoted slowly, focusing on hospital debts. It explains how these debts are created. In other words, because of the regional supply, by direct purchases and not by tenders, the central administration is required to retrospectively legitimise it. Furthermore, the intention is to transform the National Central Health Procurement Authority, EACH, into a public limited company by the Government, obviously to operate on private economic criteria. Is it true, as far as hospital supplies and overruns are concerned, that this is a mismanagement, or is there not the necessary funds? Without mentioning corruption, of course. Does such a shortage result in higher prices being charged by their suppliers due to the large credits they give? The Prime Minister said in 2017 and we will be tabling in the Minutes: "I will not tolerate hospital administrations to place failed states looking for slow public wages." Is that really a stop? I would remind you, however, that, unlike other promises, he has launched one of the largest ministerial shapes of all time, as well as the overshadowed and inefficient state, with a multitude of posters. On the other hand, no attention was paid to the health system, which was literally destroyed by the Memorandums, which even Mr Tomsen of the IMF admitted in 2016, as I will be tabling in the Minutes: "The decomposition of infrastructure prevents development by jeopardising the provision of basic public services, such as transport and healthcare." Tomsen. However, this summer's Prime Minister said we have more hospitals than we need, and he announced mergers in the ESS and the private clinics premium, as we will testify in the Minutes. So let us not wonder about the hundreds of deaths in Greece, nor about the fact that it has the most dead of all Western countries in a population ratio, as well as the higher rate of death growth in the fortnight that ended on 23-11-2021, as we will testify in the Minutes, this time for everyone to be read. It's very important. To figure out what's going on in Greece. Sweden, which had not imposed strict lockdowns, as we recommended as Greek Solution from the beginning, since the first day, had the first zero deaths before and a total of fifteen thousand forty-five, while Switzerland, which also did not impose strict lockdowns, had twenty-nine and a half thousand deaths, with Greece exceeding eighteen thousand. On the contrary, we in Greece have destroyed our economy, which was not the case with Sweden or Switzerland, despite the fact that they are much richer countries than we are, without guaranteeing the health of the population, as one of the painful development of the pandemic, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, terrifying literally twins of deficits, losses of state and debt. Continuing, we are unable to understand why, while the government wasted EUR 43.3 billion in just two years' time with loan unfortunately, it did not build at least the required ICMs, and it had almost nothing to improve the damaged health system. The 2022 budget costs hospitals 2.9 billion in 2022 from 3.2 billion in 2021 and 2.9 billion in 2020, while 2019 was 2.6 billion. Therefore, it is 300 million more on a firm basis along with the vaccines and others of the pandemic. Is that money? 43.3 billion and only 300 million for hospitals? Of course, it is not just this problem, since it has kicked out another seven thousand health workers at a time when, on the one hand, there are shortages of hospital staff, on the other hand, cases are growing sharply, and on the other hand, we have not heard anything similar has happened in the other countries. At the same time, the number of pupils in the school classes has not even been reduced, while in the public transport, there is still aggregation, without actually having taken any measures at all, obviously not because the virus is not there, as the Prime Minister here unfortunately claimed here in this House, saying that he has similar studies, which he has never produced, despite the fact that we asked for them immediately at the same time. On the other hand, the daily terrorism of some mass media, supported for propaganda reasons richly by the government with an amount of more than 80 million, continues with the appearance of dozens of'specials' - in introductorys - on televisions, whose conflicting views increase the fears of citizens, even though substantial and objective information with serious and detailed statistics is rare, if not non-existent, so that dozens of hypothetical scenarios are moved in relation to the effectiveness of vaccines, as well as unacceptable, really unacceptable, conspiracy theories. Of course, all this will have serious repercussions on the economy, which is on the way to recovery. Although 43.3 billion in loans were wasted, our country's GDP in 2021 will remain lower by 5.65 billion in 2019, according to the government's forecast. While the highly indebted Greece has spent a figure of 17.5% of its GDP on the IMF as against 3.8% of the European Union average, as we will testify in the Minutes, increasing its deficit and debt more than every country of the European Union, its GDP will remain below that of 2019, unfortunately substantiating the government's total failure and the economy, except for health. Further to the seventh assessment, from September 2020, it is stated that the draft law on the new EACH framework would be ready by the end of October 2020, one year before, while recommending the re-energisation of the Prices Observatory, with the aim of carrying out 40% of the supplies centrally by 2022. In the eighth, it is not mentioned again how the law was being prepared for EKPH, while it is repeated in the tenth assessment, but where the institutions seem they can no longer wait for legislation, giving the mandate - aiming at centrally 30% of the supplies of hospitals, as we will also present in the Minutes. In addition, it is stated that the Price Observatory, including two hundred sixty products, has been reactivated and a range of prices will be set according to the quantity, distance and specific characteristics of the product, where we would like the Minister to inform us of the limits given. Incidentally, the Ministry of Health Prices Observatory seems to have been abolished or at least there are no other updates since April 2011, as we will be filing in the Minutes, and it was at the time of the memorandum, if we are not mistaken. Why did it really happen? Wasn't it useful? If it wasn't useful, now why is it? In conclusion with the evaluations for the same issue, the eleventh is expressed in the disappointment of the institutions that were not passed the law and the target for centralised procurement is set at 40%, while the last few days ago, the twelfth is stated that the law will be deposited on 22 November by repeating the 40% target and by noting that 30% has already been achieved, as has already been done. That's what we're talking about today. Continuing, with today's draft law, the legal person governed by public law has become a legal person under private law under the same name. Of course, as referred to in Article 4, the ESDP will implement PPP projects, and will be financed by the Recovery Fund, as well as by the ESDP and the Public Investment Programme in Article 5. It is therefore also documented here that the above inputs from the European Union, as well as the Public Investment Programme, are not available for productive investments in the economy that are essential to the sustainable development of the country, but in completely different areas, such as public health. This means that we have not been taught any of the mistakes of the past that led us to the IMF, the memorials and destruction, with mismanagement continuing as if there were no tomorrow. On the other hand, once again the General Accounting Office of the State mentions nothing about the cost of the bill as usual. Neither for the operational costs of the ESDP nor for its financing by the national or co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme. In addition, the costs shall not be mentioned for the Committees referred to in Article 19(3), which are defined by the Minister's approval in Article 21, always with the approval of the Minister. Nor for the external consultants referred to in Article 12. Furthermore, there are contracts with non-profit organisations in Article 20, without even mentioning the logic or at least we have not seen it anywhere. Or adopt the necessary security controls for their donors who are usually pharmaceutical companies. In conclusion, therefore, it may have a basis for the bill, but in so far as the necessary resources are not given to health, one cannot be very cautious and vote against it. Especially when the troika, the Recovery Fund, the PPPs and some non-profit organisations are involved, usually with interrelated interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, an objection of unconstitutionalism has been tabled by the Greek Solution which will be discussed later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u74	Mr Blucho has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the ESS has undoubtedly been the largest part of the post-government health sector, but one of the fundamental problems of the ESS is that it has been built from the outset in an environment of total stateism, with all the tragic problems that result from time to time from this concept of stateism. A misguided statement that strangled the ESS in the course of the years and drained its healthy powers and a peculiar and silently acceptable indifference and without any substantial interference over all these years was left to his fate or damage. The lack of evaluation of medical and nursing work, the reward of health workers, experimentation, evaluation, interaction, policy in general of non-measurement, even the measurable objects, sizes, indicators, which would reflect the quality that we still have today for this latter anointed, has been and unfortunately remains to some extent, the end of its operation. The last thing that serves is, of course, the renowned citizen, because in order to serve the patient, the patient had to be either invoked as a health care agency or as a servicer, or recourse to the mother country, i.e. the state money tree which would finance any need for an urgently baptized hospital and a large part of society to have negative impressions or permanent prejudice. It has been 30 years since the birth of the ESS, so that we can see that the money is tax in the face of economic bankruptcy and that the non-use of the taxpayer's labour is essentially a dismantling of public money, is an unimportant act. These are historical now. So we come to the present day where the concepts "Dight" and "left" in my opinion have no meaning with real reality and not with fantasy reality. I am making a distinction between the two concepts, to state that the ideology of any disagreement between common sense and demands for demonstration is mentioned between the two realities, that of things and that of fantasy. What's the RU? It's public health. It is the use of citizens' taxes, so that all of us, without involvement of any speculative self-interest, have access to the necessary care to ensure our health. And it is this government which, in real terms, supports it both with human resources and with material resources, and only political myopism does not understand it. But it is also politically inappropriate or detrimental to the public dialogue to talk about the ESS with fireworks that its chronic deteriorations can be lifted in the sight of automation and in the midst of a pandemic crisis. Is it, then, what does it do in every bill of the Ministry of Health to colleagues from the Civilian Representation, but also to the rest of the left or populist opposition, to be in the "trees", denounce any possible public-private partnership? We have heard arguments of funny, reminiscent of trade unionists on "accurate and Olympic" or "Tobra on state OTE" or others. Hospital supplies. Don't you dare, Mr. Plouris, and give them to legal persons under private law, because you serve interests. And we wonder, what public interests serve the legal person governed by public law? The logic of extraordinary awards at high prices? The logic of late orders? And what's more flexible? ERIC or ETA? Didn't it prove too far in our state in the management of the pandemic? Do we need everything that happens in the supply room in our hospitals or doesn't happen? Identified tenders, supplies of rendered or useless, unsuccessful materials? Built theft of materials? Should we not, on transparent terms and conditions, put a definitive end to all this? What do you mean? Accessibility and transparency. Saving of time and resources, management efficiency, sound stock management, reduction of variations, rationalisation of the supply chain. I would like to comment on telegraphs and your permanently dissident attitude to pandemic issues. Obligation on health care government, not punishment, yes to voluntary compulsoryity, you. Advertise the vaccination on the bonuses of the government, shame the redemption of young people, you. Obligation to vacate over 60 years of age, by a brave decision, with indirect encouragement to protect ourselves and others and those who are generally at risk, in terms of patriotic responsibility, when we talk about the protection of public health and by recognising the vulnerability of certain age groups, you are responding to punishment and economic extermination. Instead of a solid political speech and a political act of psychological abortages of incoherent paradoxes and vague sayings, in order to satisfy the imaginary complex of the left objection. Nobody gets caught in your irrationality from anywhere. Frequent logic and pharmacism. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Your tolerance, Madam President. But come on, where your President, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, has set up a committee of wise counsellors, very well and holy, one of them, Mr Geraggiofas, from what I am reading. Let's hear what he said last week, just two weeks ago, Mr. Gertziafas, who intervened in public. He pointed out the dangers if there is no direct and mass vaccination in our country by Christmas and the possibility of a stranded one. And, in the midst of a pandemic crisis, there must be mandatory vaccination. There is the individual right, as he said, but there is also the obligation to protect our people. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most eminent members of the scientific community who also receives the advice of your President, because the scientific community has no flag of convenience or flag of ideology. You, even in this, are a negative figure, challenging the credibility and validity of the scientific team of scientists in Greek reality. In the health sector, above all, we must look for those concepts that produce little understanding. And not the concepts to be understood only by psychological charges, which each party arbitraryly imposes on them. Ladies and gentlemen, the way in which a state operates cannot be ideological but rational above all. A hospital does not have post-capitalism, neoliberalism or socialism as its flag. Its flag is the health and effectiveness of it. And to honor the bleeding taxpayer to operate the public hospital, the public school, the public university, we need to overcome any obsession and struggling associated with ideological menopause and to clearly look at the cost, benefits and result. The lame time of pandemic is the largest school for all of us, right and left, socialists and liberals. Effective, this is the expression of love and affection of a modern state to its citizens. In effectiveness is the government's aim, the state's accomplishment we called it, and you are laughing at it. The aim of this bill is also to make it effective, and I propose that it be voted on poorly. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Paulakis has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Madam President. The previous colleague spoke of an ideological menopause. I shall begin by describing the ideological disparity which has been stumbling you lately. I won't talk about you, Mr. Pleari, at first. I will speak to the Greek people, to the workers who are listening to us, copying a text of an excellent "DIMMOOSOVIS" by Michael Army. The oldest ones know him. The excellent colleague of some of you here says to the world. "Listen to two words I want to tell you. This government wants you to be poor, and it actually manages to do so, the carpets, the cuts in wages and pensions, the shrinking of your income. This government wants you impoverished, and it manages with the redundancies, the snatching of your property, the auctions. This government wants you scared, and it does it by threats, imprisonment, police immunity, violence, extortion, control of justice, lasting feedingstuffs on their people who sow panic. This government wants you terrified, and it manages with the unrelenting death, the construction of evidence, the giantization of the epidemiological bogeyman, the cooking of truth in the kitchens of their interests. This government wants you desperately, and it manages with the murder of your every hope, by the trample of your dignity, by the disappearance of your smile, by the lie and the murder of anyone carrying on their shoulders. This government wants you to be dependent on them, and it manages to convince them that some and all of the bones will throw you to chew if you worship them and lick them legs. This government wants you to be possessed, and it manages to make sure that if you are theirs, you have nothing to fear of her atrocities. This government wants you an enemy and a war of the different from them, and it manages it by feeding you to distribute from the bracelet of allegiance and positions in the blanket and in heaven. He wants you forsaken from life and strangled in survival, at least one day, and he manages it with their policies and way of life. She wants you to be her instrument, and she manages to make you shiver your pamphlet every time your phone rings, every letter you find in your mailbox, every one who knocks on your door. They want you to walk on their throne, and they probably do it, since they don't feel that their throne is moving. And don't ask me what you have to do. If you ask me, you'll prove that you've already been made, exactly the way they want you to." I started from this text, Mr Ploris, because with this amendment of the dove you have reached the bottom and it is a turning point of the fall of your Government what is being done today. I'll speak in particular. This amendment is a confession of failure. Right now - the evidence is three minutes ago - on the EKT list they're intubated and looking for a hundred and fifty-six patients of whom fourteen suffer from a coronary. If that's not a confession of failure after a year and a half of a pandemic, what is it? When today - with yesterday's figures - we have a thousand six hundred sixty-six deaths per million population ranking us in the highest position in the developed countries of the European Union. If that's not a confession of failure, what is it? After a year and a half and after you accused me of being sprayed for so-called treatments - your predecessor used in the Ministry of Health, Mr. Georgiadis said these - of the monoclonal antibodies, you took pictures along with the State Secretary sitting next to you and said: "We brought the monoclonals." And what have you done? At the University, in Heraklion Crete, all over Crete, there are thirty doses of monoclonals. Are we going to take them out on the lottery, or is anyone who gets a chance? This is not a confession of failure, when it is already apparent from the first ones to deliver what they have achieved. You continue to have, with an ERR who is barogue, six and a half thousand health workers outside the system, with an indiscriminate obsession, at the same time as inmates faint, because they do not come out and refuse to return them by making three or four rapids, now that the system is about to blow them off. I told you the numbers before. I'm thinking, if we had eighteen thousand sixty-seven dead for our day, how you'd have been skinned in Syntagma Square. Like the Daskaloman who was beaten by the Turks at the 1770 revolution. And now it's a controlled situation. It's all right. We've faced the pandemic. You are not ashamed to go out and say such words, either here from the Step or from the channels that host you. And from what I saw, Mr. Plori, my old sieve art, you shared with Mr. Stavoura, Mr. Doglakakis - I don't know who you signed -4600,000 euros for a new advertising campaign. Is it the vaccination of a social health message that the media had to present for free? Why do you have to give them another 4,600,000 euros? To hide the dead, to mourn you and your Moses, to say that you saved us while it becomes the crook in society. And within all of this, you also bring an amendment and say that the world will pay for it and a dove. You're such crumbs, you'll say if he gets vaccinated by 15, we'll get him 50, we won't get him a hundred. You have completely lost contact with social reality. And the voyage of what comes will devastate you, Mr. Pleari. And here we are. Remember that date and what you're going through today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll say two words about the bill we're talking about today, after I say something else. Do you know what the greatest indication of your failure is? We've made a mess of suggestions in relation to what had to be done, from public transport, the dilution in schools, the rapid tests and the tracking, the treatments, etc. Do you know what your greatest failure is, Mr. Plearis? It is that based on official evidence from the EGE and Mr. Chiodra, who announced it on October 10, the dead from the beginning of the pandemic who were fully vaccinated were seven hundred ones. This is the official announcement you made that day. On 7 November - there is evidence sent by Mr Zautis - the dead, the fully vaccinated are a thousand forty-seven. From 10 October, that is to say until 7 November, there have unfortunately been three hundred forty-six fellow citizens who have been fully vaccinated. How many people died just the same time overall in the country on the basis of EGE's daily data during the twenty-eight days? A thousand hundred and eighteen died. What is the rate of three hundred forty - six in a thousand eighteen? Is that your success?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u78	The message for the vaccination!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u79	Leave the message, Molly, don't talk to me like that! I've saved thousands of people in my life, you won't tell me stories! [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Here you've done a catastrophic pandemic management, we've reached eighteen thousand, sixty-seven dead and continue to kick your head off the wall! And I'm talking with evidence. And cut the crap! Cut the crap! You won't talk to us about science!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u80	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u81	We have served her as few in our lives. Answer the information we give you and not in general and in vague terms! Bring fifteen, twenty thousand doses of monoclonals, open up real Beds of MIT! And the other colleague said before and he wasn't ashamed - for you I say, colleague - that we are undermining the ESS because we say they have ophthalmologists or gastrointestinalists to indulge in the CIVID clinics. Who's in trouble? You that put them or we're the ones who call it that? And explain to me, in Agrinio, where they died forty in forty in Corfu, respectively, in Pella, in Edessa, who is to blame in general? Who's to blame in general? The ones who reveal it or the ones who let it evolve? You're not ashamed of yourself! Give EUR 250 on-call to any doctor who updates the CIVID or the ICUs, what you have told individuals to come and no one came! Okay? And don't move a finger on me! Well, two words about the EMCDDA, then, just a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u82	You scared us now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u83	It's all right, calm down! Mr. Pluri, the EACH bill is a travesty. You changed the bill that we made, transforming it into private law, adding the following responsibilities: Two things you did there. The first one is...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u84	Next year, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u85	I'm done, the other guy spoke 20 minutes, did he hurt you? The first is 'implementation'. What does the National Central Health Supplies Authority have to do with this task, ‘to implement, in cooperation with and with external consultants, communications projects, information, promotion and advertising related to its activities and to organise relevant information, publicity and dissemination of the results of the projects it carries out?’. What does this have to do with health supplies? The money you want to eat! New CEMR, new advertising expenditure, as "NOVARTIS" encountered by the CEMR mechanism, is now being encountered by the EMCDDA's advertising directory Petsa. That's what you're doing, Mr. Plearis! Nothing else. And the second thing you do is that you put the price committee and the price range, so that you decide, regardless of the results of any competitions, what the price will be for each product. And we all understand why. Because that's what you do to Article 10. As to what we did, a word, a clue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u86	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u87	In the ten years, the Committee on Health Procurement - yes, Mr Tasula, I know - the Prime Minister is now coming - and has carried out a total of EUR 140 million tenders. In a year and a half we signed 63 million euros, we handed you over to you 21 million euros that you did not sign them and implemented with the supervision of the EMCDDA the tender for molecular blood control and the competition for the eighteen CTs from the "Sisminogolia" Hospital, totalling 110 million euros in a year and a half. That's what we did. Tell us two years what you've done. With 140m euros last decade, what have you done? An orgy of direct awards! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u88	After Mr. Polakis, Mr. Stoltides had a turn. But I saw that it was deleted, so we're going to Mr. Pericles Manda, Member of the Messinia of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Com mission, I will answer what people say and how they wonder what would happen if all this happened over your days. The world, the citizens in this country say "glory to God that this pandemic did not come over your days, because we do not know where we would be at the moment", as well as the citizens say "glory to God that the crisis in Evros did not come over your days, because the immigrants would have arrived in Athens", as well as the citizens say "the crisis in the Aegean God that did not occur on your own days, because I do not know where our country would be today". And you come today to move our fingers, allegedly reading from various meditative things about the homeland and the government. Who? You who have been poorer in four and a half years than you, four-and-a-half years, loaded our country with an unnecessarily memorable memorandum and 100 billion euros, you who have been unable to give anything, no prospects, no hope for this place and, in the end, even at the most difficult moment in our homeland, now with your pandemic, lacks your hypocrisy. Finally, tell us, answer us: Are you or are you not in the national vaccination attempt? Do you agree or do you agree that vaccines are the only way out of pandemic? Do you agree or do you do not agree that we should all go to the barracks and convince our fellow citizens to get vaccinated, why is it the only way to get away from this as quickly as possible? Or will you continue to leave voices on the right and left that will mock the anti-vaccinists, who will create a bilingualism outwards and challenge our fellow citizens, just to win a few votes? Why are you doing this, you are trying to approach this population group that still reacts and which, above all, wants to see us all together in this effort. Because only so, if we are all united, we can move forward and really convince them and get away from this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that almost two years ago the health, benefits and system, infrastructure and adequacy have come dramatically to the fore through the multiple phases and waves of the pandemic in both our country and the whole world. And it is true that on the occasion of this unprecedented health crisis that is shocked by every country and society of the world, causing such complex problems and with such unpredictable implications and consequences, in these circumstances, it has opened up a worthwhile and useful debate on the real potential of public health systems, on their functioning and efficiency, on the effectiveness of their mechanisms and on the adequacy of their functions. And it is true that through these difficult times all of us spend there is a margin, there is the margin and the need to draw useful and beneficial conclusions to make our own public health system more effective, more functional and more beneficial for society. At the heart of this debate there is an inalienable and great issue that over time has been afflicted and burdened by our own national health system, the system of supplies, but also by the mechanism by which they are carried out. On substance we are discussing the National Health Procurement Authority itself, through which all supplies are carried out in the health sector in each hospital and in each health region in our home country. And, of course, the question arises: Are we pleased with the way in which supplies are being made in the health sector today? Are we satisfied with procedures, time, efficiency? Is the needs adequately covered? Or are there any major problems and shortcomings? Or are there delays and structural rigidity and, ultimately, the entire ESS slowed down, the needs slowed down and the procedures dragged away for a long time, thus reducing the level of health care that the state should provide to every citizen? For you know, ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to claim more IDs, more funds, more recruitments and more drugs, as the Accuracy Antipolitics has done for months, nor, of course, to help with the constant obstacles you put into the vaccination effort of the country, whether in the summer with the freedom pass and the 150 euros to young people, either now with the obligation to vaccinate the over sixty and the related administrative fine. Because we must finally understand in this country that our pandemic is about us all, and we must all make our debts to this society and take care of our immediate vaccination so that all of us together are finally able to leave the pandemic behind. We must therefore make use of all the means available to us today, but also of all means, to be useful and effective, both in terms of pandemic and vaccination and in terms of the functioning of the health system. Because the aim is always to work in time, valid and effective. The current operation of the National Health Procurement Authority is clearly problematic. For at least five years, minimum tenders have been successfully completed, minimum commissions are carried out with speed and effectiveness and minimum procedures have achieved their purpose. Outcome of all these 80% of supplies for the National Health System is implemented by direct markets in order to serve as is sometimes literally the case at the last minute, many key and important needs that the ESS faces on a daily basis. Can digital methods and tools be used? No, it can't. Procedures are slow and outdated. There is no satisfactory control and supervision, there is no flexibility, speed and efficiency. Is there a response to the new priorities and needs, so that new consumables and materials, new species and new methods can be incorporated into the national procurement system? Clearly not. Because the introduction of new species is extremely slow and the procedure applied does not serve or meet the real needs of the ERC. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, by closing down these very pathogens, and precisely these shortcomings come to heal today's bill, in a radical, structural, modern, transparent and methodical manner. The new regulations have a clear and clear objective of modernising the national authority by modifying its procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, our country now deserves to have a modern, transparent, efficient and operational system for supplies in the health sector, and that is what we are doing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u90	The Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, will now make an intervention to the discussed draft law of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, health is a protagonist in this parliamentary debate. Because today, World AIDS Day, we are considering forecasts that guarantee rights and institutions - patients of this buffalo epidemic, which lasts forty years, while at the same time we are also called upon to vote for a critical regulation against the coronary, an aggressive pandemic which has been afflicting us for two years. On the first issue, let me refer very briefly to three main provisions introduced by this bill. Initially, it introduces the extension of intangible prescribing to antiretroviral treatments. I would remind you that the progress of science is such that HIV - AIDS has turned from a symbolic act of death into a managementable chronic disease and our fellow citizens, the people who receive the relevant treatments, have so low levels of the virus that they cannot actually transmit it anymore. Therefore, this extension of intangible prescribing will substantially improve the medical care of our seropositive fellow citizens, reducing the bureaucratic burden on already charged infection units. Secondly, the introduction of free self-diagnostic controls for the early updating and restriction of transmission of HIV is also particularly important, which concerns the most vulnerable groups above all. And finally, it is an outstanding one that comes from the past and took a long time to come today to be regulated by a liberal centre-right government. And I refer to the recognition of parentality by parents as positive, since they normally receive their treatment. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] These are actions that harmonise our country with what is happening in the rest of Europe, solving decades' problems, but also removing unacceptable discrimination and at the same time fighting outdated prejudices. I think that this is how we pay tribute in practice and not to the words of World AIDS Day. I now come to the main issue of topical and urgent debate, in the essence of yesterday's decision on the need for our fellow citizens to be vaccinated for over sixty years. I insist, as you can see, on the last 'necessary' because I consider it stronger than the term 'compulsory', not only because it concerns the protection of the most vulnerable in the pandemic, but because it prevents the danger that they may cause to those around them. It is therefore a matter of society as a whole. I would also add that this initiative by the Government does not take place in a neutral time, with some horizontal application, but also in view of the particularly worrying 'Omicon' mutation, and always focusing on this age category, the one which comes first to COVID victims, but unfortunately lately on the willingness to be vaccinated. In other words, it is a timely and targeted choice that both justice and proportionality go through, but also determination, as a peak of a long-term persuasion. I have not concealed from the first moment that this decision has been very concerned with me. I'd say he tortured me personally. I am a deeply liberal politician and any sense of my duty is in the first place, especially when it comes to health issues, I would say difficult. However, from the outset I have stressed and feel that I feel more responsible for the common good, as well as for the good of those who still do not realize it. So, unlike some who have at times taken the risk of breaking down the health front, I personally take my own and prefer to be temporaryly strict, but quickly prove myself to be healthyly right. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Believe me, I hear the objections and the reasonable, possibly, questions from the citizens and I want to answer all of them today with real elements, but also with tangible truths. The first question is tabled in the public debate. Because a mandatory vaccine to the older citizens. Because the data is unrelenting. Nine out of ten Greeks who die today are over sixty years old, seven out of ten IFDs belong to the same category and more than eight out of ten have not been vaccinated. These are, therefore, undeniably those who are most at risk, but also those who, as they remain unprotected, besieged the National Health System, depriving thousands of other citizens of very serious illnesses. Question 2: But why now? Did you hurry? Aren't you late? Should you have moved even faster in this direction? Answer: Because now the threat is greater. We are not yet aware of the consequences of the 'Omicon' mutation, but we know that if we speed up vaccination and the first and the third dose, the better protected we will be against the unforeseen nature of the virus. But we know one more thing. We know that last month the elderly fellow citizens have shown us a relatively greater reluctance to be vaccinated against other age groups. Over the past three weeks in total, nearly two million first, second and third doses of all ages have been closed. However, of the five hundred eighty thousand unvaccinant just seventy thousand, they rushed to close their first dose date to get a protection shield in this way. It was the smallest percentage increase compared to all other age groups. So, above all, we must focus our action on them. I will also insist on the concept of proportionality, which is constitutionally guaranteed. We are coming to this stage very simply because we have exhausted all the other intermediate stages. Question 3: Yes, but is the financial measure of EUR 100 very strict? Why are you choosing an administrative fine? The answer - first of all - is simple: only the fine gives the regulation its genuine binding character. On the other hand, let us look at it a little differently: it is only a health charge for the hospitals, which are so much tested, for those who have to make the right decision. It is very easy not to pay the fine, as long as it is vaccinated. It's so simple. And, of course, the fine that we have chosen is very far from fines of EUR 7 000 that I saw valid in Austria or - look - up to EUR 1 000 for a breach of the COVID legislation currently in force in Italy. If you are arrested in public transport without a mask, you will pay a fine of up to EUR 1,000 here in our neighbouring southern Italy. It is, however, an important sum of EUR 100, and I therefore believe that it is a serious incentive to move towards sickness and pain, a measure which, as I have said, comes after a long and long-term action of persuasion on the part of the state. Question 4: Have you done enough to end up there? I would like to reply and remind you of the actions that have been taken - in addition to the timely and free safeguarding of vaccines - through the 'Freedom' operation, the home vaccination by mobile workshops in islands, villages, in remote areas, in special population groups such as Roma, the controlled access to enclosed areas since July and the entry only into vaccinated and hospitalized areas from the beginning of November. I would also remind you of the introduction of the third dose as a condition of complete vaccination and our encouragement, by letter to the European Commission, to follow this practice. It was a proposal, if I'm not mistaken, which Mr. Friends had tabled in the public debate - correctly - and we adopted it first, I remind you, in Europe. First in Europe, we have applied the free and universal disposition of self-tests since last spring. And that strategy was then obscured. However, it seemed extremely effective, especially so that we can reopen our schools. At the same time we faced the chronic diseases of the primary care system, including private doctors in the home vaccination program or in the hospital. At some point when this adventure passes, Minister, we will make the evaluation and response of the private sector to this programme, which, unfortunately, despite the financial incentives we have given, was not, in the end, desirable. Firstly, our country has opened up the commemorative, third dose to all adults, in front of other European countries, even before the world's medical community has recognized the importance of the commemorative dose. In fact, I have also asked the Committee on Vaccines to consider a shortening of the interval between a second and a third dose, as I am not a doctor, but it is quite clear to me that immunity is gradually devastated. So if we can, Minister, and I believe that we have the possibility - and we are approved by the experts - to open the third dose perhaps in all four months. I am absolutely certain that the business operators of the "Freedom" operation can respond, so that we can speed up further the booster dose as an additional shield of defence against the coronary and its possible mutations. And, of course, throughout the entire time some people are accusing us of not having done enough to inform, there is an information campaign. That's where we're doing a cocktail review committee on the information campaign. Isn't that right? There is, therefore, an information campaign and a age-oriented campaign. And I don't think there can be today a fellow citizen who refuses the reality, that the message of the vaccination data has arrived to our last fellow citizen, not only through the official channels of the state, but through the experts who are being recruited, through the Church, who, despite some exceptions, has made an honorable effort to persuade the mayors, the primary health structures, but especially the stories of the passionaries themselves, the unabsorbed, who look at the gift in their faces, and when, fortunately, they take their lives back into their hands, they come and say publicly, "I wish I would know beforehand not to pass this suffering." But there are so many others who will never tell us their story and their history. And they are the irreversible who lost their lives, they did not gain this difficult battle, despite the great effort made by the doctors who took care of them. So, today, we really can talk in this country that we have not been informed properly, that we have not done everything we can to inform each Greek citizen of what really happens with the coronary? And, in any case, what else would you propose at last so that we can make this campaign even more effective? And, yes, this campaign led us to the vaccination rates we are today. 83% of our fellow citizens over sixty have been vaccinated. They were somehow persuaded. So we are talking about 17%, which has not yet been vaccinated and which is too much to ignore. And let someone come to tell me that for five hundred thousand of our fellow citizens today who for some reason still refuse to do the vaccine, we must not do what goes through our hand to get vaccinated and protected in this way. The fifth question, where did I hear some colleagues from the Qualified Opposition raise it, is a constitutional measure? I imagine - as far as I know - that the Civic Opposition does not raise an issue of unconstitutionality. So you will agree with me that Article 5(5) expressly states that the state is looking after public health. Article 21(3) specifically refers to the need to protect older ages. Yes, the prediction is completely constitutional. It's not just us. They call it prestigious constitutionalists, many of whom do not live in our own political area. I mention, for example, Professor Manitakis, who, in his writing, I read, defended the constitutionality of the relevant regulation. Moreover, it already has the compulsory vaccination of the seal of the Council of State, of many national and international courts, and of the European Court of Human Rights itself. There is, therefore, no practically no legal, constitutional issue. Question 6: If that is the case, why don't you extend the requirement everywhere? Everywhere, because our actions must always be proportionate. Our choice is for the economy and society to function, never to become a lockdown again, and public health to be protected. That is why our interventions must be targeted. IDs don't fill today with military and police officers. They're full of old people. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So that's where we turn our interest. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to explain a few words to the National Representation, but also to the Greek people, because I have come to the decision to urge the older people more forcefully to be vaccinated in order to prevent them from being threatened. And it is something to be sure and sure that many other European governments are already planning. But above all - and I think this is the most essential - it is a measure that our fellow citizens seem to respond to. Be careful, before we announce the measure, the daily rate of new appointments for ages over sixty was about two thousand appointments a day. Since we announced the metro - since noon yesterday - almost twenty thousand dates have been closed. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Twenty thousand dates, almost ten times more. I wish! Thank them. I thank all our fellow citizens, even though they may feel a certain reluctance within them for this choice. They're doing the right thing. And if we continue at this rate, then there is no doubt that the measure will not be just proportionate, fair, legal, but above all effective. And it's a move that comes to frame a policy with continuity and effect. I would like to say again that we have already reached 83% of our fellow citizens over the sixty who have been vaccinated and over seven million Greeks. Three of our four fellow citizens over eighteen have made this choice. Let's go better, then, but we don't go as well as we'd like, we don't go as well as it takes so that we can finally put the titles to the end of this pandemic. Unfortunately, my dear Deputy Minister, Mrs Gaga, the original predictions of infectious words, which said that with about 70%, we would have built the immunity wall. It is clear that we need to go much higher, how much more to protect ourselves against mutations that are already threatening us. To reduce this 17% to the elderly who have not yet been vaccinated, yes, that is a national objective, is the line that is being imposed by political responsibility, a policy - I will say it again -'save lives','save lives','save lives','save lives'! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And that is my first responsibility, regardless of any political cost that this option can entail! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am ready, ladies and gentlemen, to hear any realistic proposal or counter-proposal that might have brought about a better result and would help us to get rid of this health nightmare earlier. No, however, with finished flares like notorious optional compulsoryity, because only desperately opposedness reveals this bilingualism and flirting with uninvasives. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I wouldn't make this report, but at Step 15 minutes ago it was Mr. Paulakis. You weren't in the Chamber, Mr. Tsipras. I was listening to him from my office. It's all the same again. Again invoking the number of our vaccinated fellow citizens who have lost their lives! Again, the same argument, which closes the eye to the anti-vaccinists, following the most trembling, trivialized and scientifically incorrect logic that the vaccinated and, of course, the vaccinated ones are also dying! What does that mean? That we have to stop insisting on vaccination? You are still on two boats, but it is time for clean talk and concrete solutions. Five months ago, Mr. Tsipras humiliated the vaccine's connection with the EUR 150 pocket to young people. Isn't that what you were saying, Mr. Tsipras? At that time, participation in the vaccination of young people was only 15%. It's up to nearly 70 percent. We needed a stimulus to start the vaccination process. You yourself - not just you and your members, Mr. Friend - yesterday you told us the opposite of what you were using five months ago. Now you have asked for financial incentives to get the older ones vaccinated. Isn't that right? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] A hundred euros as pocket money - didn't you tell us, Mr. Friend? - to change their minds. A little seriousness, ladies and gentlemen of the Police Department, it wouldn't hurt. The time passed when some instead of putting their backs on, they put on triples. Now there are no lockdowns to organize resistance events, no closed schools to ask to open and close later. On the contrary, now there are vaccines, these vaccines that you said at first were not discovered, while they shared free of charge not to undisturbed, but to save lives. Well, all these lies were heard, hurt and erased in the truth. Let us finally put titles in this practice to oppose the government through a global health crisis. If you have specific proposals to submit them here, to examine them, to discuss them. Today Greece is more than ever in need of responsible reason, and the House has a duty to suggest and finally to vote. We want a society that moves forward, including even its most hesitant parts. Yes, or not, to urge the older ones to take their place in the immunity wall against the pandemic as well? And can we finally build a national health front after almost two years, or will we tear it down at every opportunity, thanks to the small-party interest? Ladies and gentlemen, I feel that I am doing my duty, and I have a perfectly quiet conscience, proposing a clean way out of adventure today. With a sense of responsibility and yes, bold and politically difficult decisions. I ask you all to do the same. I look forward to the final placement of the Change Movement. Let us have a society and a home. And I expect to hear your proposal so that we can all judge your own behaviour. Weigh the situation, then speak and then vote. It would be a real wish if we could today, even away from the individual disagreements, send out a message that what we are proposing can be an effective stimulus for our vigilant fellow citizens to go to vaccinate and I hope that we do not have to impose a fine of EUR 100. Then we'll really have achieved our goal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u92	He now has his own intervention in the Ministry of Health bill under discussion, Alexis Tsipras, President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, and Chief of Officerial Response.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Mitsotakis, your decision yesterday - the way in which you announced it - and today's speech shows one thing: that at a very critical moment for Greek society, at a time of unprecedented crisis and insecurity, at a moment of tragic crisis - at the time when we are talking and who you again like to come here to tell us "save lives" "save lives" - we have, unfortunately, overcome every negative record in deaths per million people and we are in the worst places throughout Western Europe. One hundred and forty-eight fellow citizens, as the administration of EIAP informed me yesterday - a hundred and fifty-five I am learning today - are roughly paved out of intensive care units and we have no picture of whether these people have any hopes, chances, prospects, to save their lives, and they would probably have been within intensive treatment beds. That's the tragedy we're living in today. And in this tragedy you come and take a place that you spent three months in the previous period and once again move the finger on opposition, SYRIZA and the other parties. Forget, then, the existence of counterpopulation, forget it. There is no opposition. There is the government and against it is the Greek society. Are you satisfied with the development of this pandemic in our country? Did you do well? Did you do all right? I'm sorry, but you're completely confused. You've lost control. You are probably in panic and this is a very bad development and you commit one error after another. And I really beg you to get serious and recover because being in panic at this critical moment is probably worse than a wrong decision or wrong performance during the management of the pandemic. For months you have been the ones trying to convince us that forced vaccination is not an option. Among other things, there is Mr. Ploris sitting next to you, who was the one to argue that it is not an option because, among other things, it is unconstitutional. And since you've told almost every viewer that it's unconstitutional, not least, you're going to impose the obligation. I'm not going to tell you what the constitutionalists say or I'm not going to make a lecture here. I'll tell you what you said. You said that and you weren't saying it six months ago, you weren't saying it a year ago, you said it twenty days ago. You personally, Mr Mitsotakis, were going out to the media and were actually against all thoughts and choices of compulsoryity. Not me, but you. In your interview at "MEGA" on 3 November 2021, now, last month, you said: "We considered that compulsoryity has exhausted its limits and the margins of effectiveness". You, below, said in the same interview "the harder we are and the more mandatory we put the greater reactions that will cause this. That is why we are not choosing it. I wasn't the one to say it, Mr. Mitsotakis, you were the ones who called it. In this House, 18 October 2021, I raised a question on Prime Minister's time - and you responded - on the crucial and major issue of the pandemic. And to this question in answer - I have your speech here - you told us: 'I cannot force anyone to be vaccinated. Mandatory vaccinations have reached the limits of the two categories we have imposed on them. We shall not impose any further mandatory vaccinations.’; [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] And I come to the statements by Mr Ploiros on October 29th on SKAI TV, who was even more embodied and said Mr Ploris: "Someone who suggests that the over sixty should have compulsory vaccination must tell us what he means. Does he mean we're going with the syringe and we're inoculated with him, doesn't he? He means we're gonna come and tell him that you're not inoculated and you're over sixty aren't gonna take your medications and you're not gonna pay?' And then he took a position on the issue of constitutionality and told us that "we will not move on to mandatory vaccination, because the government operates on the basis of constitutional balance and on the grounds of constitutional order, and that compulsoryity runs counter to the Constitution, the Council of State and the Bioethics Committee". That's what Mr. Floris said. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Are you swinging your head? So you guys feel good about saying that a month ago and you come along and you're now charming next to the Prime Minister, who rocked us and the finger didn't move and we talked about constitutionality? Well, I won't talk about constitutionality, but you're a government that's lost eggs and passovers at the most difficult time of dealing with and managing the pandemic. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You've lost the ball. You've lost control, you're in panic and a cold heat, a white one. The problem is that apart from white and black, there are other shades, there are other possibilities, there are other prospects. You strongly resisted any thought, any proposal, concerning aid. And we made such suggestions to you. Of course, we have always put the vaccination campaign, the essential, the persuasive one, and you have not made a substantial effort in this direction. I'll be right back. But we were also talking about special categories, where it is necessary and where we can lead more and more of our fellow citizens to the vaccination process. Why are you back, we told you. And then we brought you the examples that you referred to today with a disgraceful word on the military and police officers. One simple thing we said to you at the time, that it is not morally possible for anyone who examines the certificate of vaccination by a citizen to be the same inconsistent. And you were telling us all this to refuse to take political costs in the name of unconstitutionalism and opposition to compulsoryity. So, where you were in the cold, you take us, not the heat, the heat. What decision is that now? Who are you going to convince that way? In any case, I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, and you, Mr Mitsotakis, that the decision you make is dangerous. And there is a risk in terms of the climate of social cohesion, which is necessary in order to combat a pandemic, which is evidenced by the reality itself that it does not end here and that it has multifactorial consequences, not only in terms of people's psychology, but also in terms of public health and social cohesion, as well as in the flare, reconstruction, launching, if you like, of the anti-infectious demagogue in the next period. But you are applying a measure, which is not, in fact, compulsory vaccination. And I will explain to you why it is not even compulsory vaccination what you are implementing. Because, in fact, what you are doing, separating an age category and putting on a fine that has no meaning at all - because it is the hundredth of those who receive a pension of 400 euros and lives from it and another hundred lives for someone who has large incomes, whether he is a pensioner or is not and is more than sixty - what you want and move forward and decide is not compulsory. Obligation means the same for everyone. What you are doing here is economic extortion for the weak and the possibility of withdrawing the right of refusal for the wealthy. That's what you're doing. You're laughing, huh? You laugh, because you just found out the day before yesterday that there are our fellow citizens dependent on their wages. What can we do? And just now you find that there are our fellow citizens, perhaps, who are dependent on their poor pension. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And since you're laughing, I'll give you specific examples. So he, today, is fifty-five-nine years old, and it is necessary to persuade him to be vaccinated to save his life and to safeguard the prospects of the social system, but he has objections, he may have a lack of information, and you say that the over sixty compulsory. The one who was under the age of 60 and had objections today, how will he react? Are you creating with this decision a vaccinative culture? Are you encouraging the process of persuasion in Greek society to convince our fellow citizens? And obviously the one who is over sixty, I repeat, and has the financial potential, and is inconsistent either from a lack of information or from the views he may have created, in fact you are making him negative on the block, making him a "scanner" in the view that he will not be vaccinated and you say "give him a hundred and unblocked". And what did you tell us here today? You told us that this hundred is in the right direction, because it would be a health price. In other words, you have left two years without support from the National Health System, you are bringing a budget that in the middle of a pandemic is 800 million less for public health and you are coming to tell us that you will have a health price from the hundreds that will pay for the invasive elderly in order to continue to be invasive and continue to risk his own life. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So you're interested in them, or to cover up the budget, the financial hole in the system? You're confusing me. You have confused us and confused those who are following you, you have confused your MPs, you have confused the Greek society. That's why we beg you, be serious. Come on, get your ass up and get your ass together. You can't say ten days ago more and then ten days later say exactly the opposite. And I come to the crucial issue and the crucial issue is not at this time the controversy, political conflict and arguments on the part of anyone. The crucial issue is that at the time we're talking, the National Health System has collapsed. The crucial issue is when we talk, a hundred and fifty fellow citizens of ours and their relatives are struggling. Because we could provide substantial care at a difficult time doubtless with a high austerity rate anyway, but we could provide these hundred and fifty people - who are multiplying every day - who are out of the ICM, the possibility of having a better chance - and they are surgical beds. I would like to invite you once again, Mr Ploris and Mrs Gaga, to give us information. How many of these people that are being escaped out of S.H.I.E.L.D. do they manage to survive? Give us evidence. How many deaths are on a daily basis, losses outside intensive care units beds? Facing the truth is a prerequisite for you to be able to correct the bad texts. You hide her the truth and make a climate of beauty. So, at this point, I would say that tomorrow morning, in a magical way, we managed to inoculate all six hundred thousand over sixty who are inconvenient, but also all the others - who, in my view, with the decision that you made, are going to be taken in the opposite way - but let us assume and wish.... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I hope everyone gets vaccinated tomorrow morning. Even if tomorrow morning all our fellow citizens were vaccinated, the dramatic situation in the National Health System would have no recession. And you know it very well. Talk to scientists and statisticists. You know that very well, because the immunity wall wants two months to go to anyone who is vaccinated. So either way, given the statistic that leads us to a horrific climax of cases, intubated, imported to hospitals, the next Christmas will pass. Are you interested in this? Are you concerned about this? Are you concerned with what the experts say, that by Christmas we will have at least two thousand people who will lose their lives? And I say, if you're really concerned about saving lives, will you take emergency measures to deal with this situation? Or will you hide under the carpet of news and publicity the fact that we have prisoners of people we lose every day and hundreds outside intensive care units? Are you concerned about this? And what do we do, though? What can we do? Do not go through your mind at all what it is to do is to strengthen the National Health System. Don't worry about it and it goes through your mind! Everything else to do except do. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So I urge you to consider this responsibility and I urge you to proceed immediately. If today we have a hundred and fifty fellow citizens who are intact, outside the beds of intensive care units, we will need at least two hundred new intensified treatment beds in the next period, so that our fellow citizens can have minimum conditions of dignity in trying to deal with their problems. I am not saying or wanting to speak with macabre percentages, but I say our obligation at this time to be concerned about it. It's our obligation. Now check the private nurses and those intensive care units there are in private hospitals! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Now develop intensive treatment beds, all they need, taking advantage of those of the military hospitals, so that our fellow citizens can hope for life. Unless the invaders don't care whether they live or not. And the same reality says, life itself, unfortunately, that there is a 15% rate - that is the truth, your information tells you this - in intensive treatment units that are vaccinated. And the great concern of the scientific community is that now with the 'Omicon' and the concerns that every citizen enters into the minds of the third dose, the possibility of a fifth wave - I wish he would never come - will be a wave of inactively vaccinated. So, apart from the others, which, in my view, you are going back and falling from one mistake to another, you are driving into divisive situations in Greek society and social automation, beyond others concerning your decision on the worst possible form of compulsoryity, we must also see what we are going to do today with these people who are in hospitals and those who are mathematically speaking coming in the next period. Now, at least now, hire doctors and nurses! You tell us: "We can't hire doctors. There's no possibility. It takes two and three years to make recruitment." Really? Last year, how did you hire him? Last year, how did you hire two hundred in intensive care units with fast track procedures? How did you do that last year?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u94	There are no doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u95	Aren't there? You're lying. Not you, Mrs. Bakoyannis. You may be uninformed. I've got them here. There are no, you say, doctors. For example, I'm just going to mention...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u96	Please! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u97	It is a good thing to exchange - and sometimes intensely - arguments, but to listen to them first. Listen up and fight. In yesterday's meeting with EIAP, they gave me detailed information. You realise that I have not found them from my belly nor I have the opportunity to know exactly what is happening and where it is happening, but the people who fight are not some trade unionists sitting in their offices. They give the battle, they save people every day, they're in the field. These people - and the OENGE and the EIAP with the same information - told me this. The representatives of hospital doctors then estimate that this is a number that approaches eight hundred doctors in critical specialities, such as pathologists, general doctors, cardiologists, who are currently on list waiting for their appointment. And I will give you two typical examples from the 1st Health Region: Elpis Hospital. Proclamation of a pathologist position. Thirty-nine candidates are waiting. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Why don't you take them? Why don't you do a permanent intake? Because you're ideologists! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Hippocrates Hospital. Call for a cardiologist position. Forty-five candidates. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Why don't you take them? Why don't you hire them now? Why? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Only while you have screwed up, while you have left the ESS under collapse, you again come to invest in the logic of individual responsibility, enforceability and punishment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u98	Most of them serve in other hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u99	Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u100	Please don't interrupt the Chief of Staff. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u101	I invite you, Mr. Mitsotakis, to personally invite you to go and meet the doctors, meet their representatives, to tell us whether they exist or not they exist. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But you're not making any progress in recruiting doctors. Not because they don't exist. You do not go any further, because you said so, your representatives said, Mr. Petsas said so, before he makes the infamous lists, for which he becomes a committee of inquiry and you are trying to hide: "If we were to give money to doctors and build intensive treatment units, as SYRIZA says, we would throw money into a black hole and a bucket." And we were told by the Minister of State, Mr Scortsos, not a year ago, but a month ago it is a luxury to have as many beds as intensified treatment units are required at this critical moment of the pandemic, because when the pandemic passes, we will not need them. So that's your idea. Your perception is that having a national health system that is fundamentally able to meet the needs of this crisis and the needs of the Greek society that lives in stress and insecurity is luxury and money thrown away. That's your idea. And I would now like to call, in order to deal with the critical points, to deal with them immediately. The immediate and crucial thing is to be able to respond to this extraordinary treaty. And my appeal is to leave the complacency, to leave the authoritarianism, which gives rise to your supposed certainty that in everything you are right, and to move on to the necessary measures that can create conditions to degrade the increase in cases in the next period. How long have we been telling you that schools are currently the center that incubates the virus and transmits it to the whole family? What was your decision about schools? Your decision on the schools was to merge classes, to have twenty-nine children in a class in a pandemic - so that you do not hire a deputy teacher, so that we can break the classes - and impose the unprecedented 50%+1 cases, to close the school class, when the Minister of the Parliament was the first to discuss a bill, Mr Karamanlis went to do a rapid test and found positive and the House closed. Why, when a Minister was found positive, did the House close and in order to close a class, seventeen positive pupils must be found? Is that reasonable? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Is that reasonable? Why are you exterminating? Is that reasonable? What is going on in other countries? What is going on in the United States of America, since you're also American students? The first case closes class not forever, for three days. And on the fourth day, in order for the kids to come to class, they must have molecular tests provided by the state, negative. Anyone who has been positive is sitting at his house for 15 days. The way we operate schools I learn that 25% of cases that EOGY discovers every day are children, they are students. Don't you realize these are the virus transponders? The elderly who live in their homes are the ones who get sick, they're not the transponders. But when the kid comes in asymptomatic, to see Grandpa and Grandma, they're stuck with a coronary. How much brain does it want and how much will and how much understanding and wisdom and how much cool it takes to agree that we need to go to such a measure? In the dilution of public transport routes, you also told us until before that it doesn't fit into public transport, as Mr Scorchos told us again that the police are not stuck. Wherever you don't care, it doesn't fit. And so you come now, while you have not made any of the necessary measures that we have been asking you for months to move on, while you have not gone through a substantial campaign for vaccination - a substantial campaign, not money in the media, to let you go - and you take the most extreme measure, which can lead to redeployment and social automation and a prospect - I said yesterday the word'sambotaz', perhaps extremism - to inject the vacant culture to the citizens, whether they are over sixty or under sixty. So - and I would like to close with that - what we are asking you to do, Mr Mitsotakis - and I appeal in this regard - is to stop. You are Prime Minister of the country today, you are handling a crisis, you cannot in the back of your mind be just how you attack Tsipras, how you attack the SYRIZA. You went out yesterday to announce a measure and tell us "Now you come to Parliament...". Is that what you care? Is that what you're talking about? Have you taken any initiative as Prime Minister to address the parties' leaders, the Heads of Representation, to consult critically? With every argument that changes every other week, you attack us. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would therefore call on you to take initiatives of understanding instead of measures of repression and conflict. You dare to take measures which, in the position of confrontation, will put the basic consensus at least. You're responsible. Evaluate the potential of scientists, society, local government. We were telling you to go door-to-door with local government, with the "Help at Home" program with non-governmental volunteer organisations to find these people. Not those who are ideologically convinced, it is not easy to convince them. Perhaps there needed another kind of hand effort - not with us and the voluntary organizations, but with the Church, with Jerome who took the right stand, because that is where there is a matter, you know it. There is a very serious issue of irrationality. Not in the official church. However, not those who are ideologically opposed, but those who have suspensions, to those who are poorly informed. Let's convince them. You didn't. Portugal why did it? I'm asking you. Did Portugal make compulsory vaccination to reach 87%? You don't. You failed and after you failed, you are coming as a sign of your failure to take measures that will make reality difficult instead of helping her. Autocracy, Mr. Mitsotakis, is the last stage of failure. And I'm very afraid that your failure will be paid very much by everyone. Not only you and your party, but all the Greek society!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u102	The Prime Minister has asked for the floor to respond to what the Chief of Police has said. Come on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u103	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u104	Mr Velopoulou, you have asked for the floor, your turn will come, you have asked for the floor, and the parliamentary representatives will follow the order, do not worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u105	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Let the Prime Minister speak, but ask me for the right to speak. That's what the Rules of Procedure say. Not breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Velopoulou, you need to know that we have you in the face here. You talk more every day than anyone, and you are not entitled to complain. We've got you in your face! Are you talking more than the Prime Minister and protesting from above?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u107	I don't understand. Is it forbidden?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u108	Once you have to appreciate this behavior.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u109	Do you understand what I said or didn't understand? Is that weak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u110	I do not have a problem of understanding so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u111	Your arrogance is extinguishing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u112	Okay, okay, you're right. The Prime Minister, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u113	I will be brief, Mr Velopoulos, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u114	I have no problem with that, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u115	Come on, Mr. Velopoulos, come on! Here, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u116	You have made many appeals to us, Mr Tsipras, but I have not heard any proposals and I have not primarily heard a proposal on the essential problem that we are facing, which is an increase in the percentage of vaccinated animals in the most vulnerable categories. You told us something that is absolutely scientifically wrong, that if we were in the vaccination rate of Portugal or Denmark, we would not solve our problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u117	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u118	That's what you said. You said we wouldn't solve it for two months.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u119	I didn't say that. Two months in front of us...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u120	So our question, Mr. Tsipras, so that we do not have an extra burden on the health system...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u121	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u122	That's what you said. I know very well what you said and I have enough understanding to understand what you are saying. You said clearly that if we arrived in a magic way at these rates, we would need two months to see decongestion in the health system. But our problem - and it's not only Greek problem, it's German problem, it's Austrian problem, it's a problem in countries that have even more organized health systems - is not to create more IDs than those we have the possibility of building - I'll come back to it - is not to get people to hospitals and get into intensive care units, so more vaccines. This is the operative cause that leads us to this regulation. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So don't mislead public opinion. And look at the real data. If we had the vaccination rates of Portugal or Denmark or, possibly, Spain, we would not today have any substantial pressure on the health system. You have spoken twenty-five minutes, but you will finally tell us whether you will vote against and why, this proposal and what you are proposing. What do you suggest? What are you suggesting - why will I then come to some of the suggestions I have heard from your advisers - to increase the rate of vaccination? The only proposal I have heard is that we should join together - that is to say, we should build a group, a group here - to convince the suspicious, who do not want to be vaccinated, as if you and I go, our MPs together, will be persuaded by them in some magical way, unless you want to send Mr Polakis, who has been very convinced to convince the inconveniences to be vaccinated. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It took you a year to build a little spot! It took you a year! He told us you were going to have a vaccination campaign. Isn't that right, Mr. Tsipras? You were going to have a vaccination campaign! You're a big party with great economic potential, with state subsidies. What exactly did you guys do as a party? What exactly did you guys do as a party to support the vaccination? What did you do? Can you say exactly what you've done? A spot has also been indirectly critical of the government after 15 months. Well, let's be serious! In any case, because you accused us of now coming to the issue of vaccination, it is not just us. I was just reading a statement from the President of the Commission, which said it was time to consider compulsory vaccinations. We have to revise our attitude, because we are faced with a constantly changing phenomenon. Is it so hard for you to understand that? We would not like to end up with compulsory vaccination. We have to do this to deal with the problem. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Doctors and intensive care units. Look, this is where you get your nest dirty. I do not want to remind you of how many intensive treatment units you have delivered us and what we have done so that we can increase and effectively double the actual units - I will then come to how I define the real intensive treatment units - within 15 days. We've done what's humanly possible. And the problem today isn't the respirators and the monitors, it's the doctors, and you know it's the doctors' problem. And you come here and tell us what? That for a single post, in a potentially attractive hospital, they applied for for forty-five. Are these forty-five people currently serving in the health system, Mr. Tsipras, or not? Well, most of them are subsidiary, they're already serving in the health system. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So, we're not talking about a new doctor's addition. We're not talking about strengthening the health system. Because, I assure you, if there was any intent anesthetic, pneumonologist, pathologist, who can provide his services to the health system, we would have already hired him. And you come back and repeat the same lies - lies, lies, lies! - once again, Mr Tsipras, for our relationship with the private sector. Aren't you telling me, is there today a bed in Intensive Treatment Units in the private sector, which is not under the management of the EAW and the National Health System? Is there? Is there? I ask you: is there or is not there? Unless you're telling me that I have to turn all of my intensive beds into COVID beds. Because, you know, there are other diseases that need intensive treatment units.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u123	Please! Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u124	Is this a question, or should I release as many intensive beds as possible? Look, the numbers are relentless. You delivered us five hundred sixty-seven beds, the least of Europe, and you come and you shake our fingers when we doubled them. Shame on you, Mr. Tsipras! You don't know? You haven't ruled four years? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We've done what's human. Our problem - I repeat - is not the drums, it's not the monitors, it's not the beds, but it's the doctors. We have proceeded with the requisition, the last measure, which we have in our capacity, in areas where the health system is being pressed. And finally, stop describing an image of the health system that is unfair to the enormous efforts made by the health care professionals. Yes, we have huge - not big - problem in Thessaloniki. There's our big problem right now. But we do not have the same problem in Athens. We don't have the same problem in Crete. We no longer have the problem with the same tension in Larissa. We don't have the same problem in the rest of Greece. This is the objective situation which prevails today. And, yes, the pandemic figures show - and I hope this will continue - in the last ten days a gradual declining of cases, which we hope will also lead to a declining of hospital imports in the next ten days. This is the situation, not what you said, that we will give people oxygen to cars and we will also do lockdown, all you said in Thessaly, the unacceptable images that do not respond to any reality that exists in a Greek hospital. Where did you see that happen? Are there any patients currently intubated outside of the ICU? Yes, there are. Is he in bed with normal care? It is. Do we have evidence that we have more mortality in these patients than in those who are in intensive care units? I don't have that kind of indication. I don't have one. Do you have one? Bring her!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u125	Please, be quiet. Previously, you were protesting for vacation to your party president.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u126	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u127	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Polakis, please sit down and put your mask on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u129	I'm not talking to convoys. And raise the mask, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u130	Please, Mr Polakis, you do not have the floor, nor do you write what you say in the Minutes. Go on, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u131	Tell me, Mr Tsipras, by hand in the heart: Do you honour this image of a Member of the former Minister of Health, in a vulgar and market style, of insulting everyone and everything and at the same time, of campaigning for anti-invasives? Because that's what he's doing. That is who you are tolerating on your parliamentary group. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And don't you see that you don't have him next to you, because you're basically one and that. Same thing you are. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And then you come and talk to this government - supposedly - about the need for consultation. Who can we get a deal with? With Mr. Polakis? No, there's no agreement with Mr. Polakis. And there can be no consultation with people who close the eye to the anti-invaders with great systematicity. Get Mr Polakis out of your parliamentary group, you can prove in practice that you mean consensus, that you will speak with a single line, and come and talk again about consultation in this Chamber. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now we're going to school. Open or closed schools, Mr. Tsipras? Do you want schools to close more often, earlier? Is that your suggestion? Do you have any other health protocol, Mr. Xanthi, for the operation of schools? Say it. Tell them schools should be closed with fewer cases. It would be a scientific opinion. We do not follow it because that was not the recommendation of the Committee of Experts. Our experts recommended this protocol in schools. And I want to remind you that we are doing two tests a week in all the children and all the teachers. That means we have a very good picture of what's going on in schools. And because you mentioned what is happening in America, I would like to remind you that there is no single policy in America. Every state, don't tell you every county within state has its own policy and its own protocols on how to deal with COVID issues. So don’t throw out such flares that don’t even respond to the reality. So if you think there should be another protocol in schools, it will mean that we have more closed schools. Let's get this straight. It means the department's gonna close sooner. It means we're gonna need more telematics. It means, again, that the least privileged children who find themselves in difficulties with teleworking will not have access to school. It means that children with psychological problems, which have been intensified in the Lockdown era, will not have access to school, because they will actually be staying longer than classrooms. If this is to be recommended, make it clear that you want to change protocols and schools to close more easily. At least that will be a scientific opinion, which I would be prepared to discuss. However, the most interesting of what you said - and let me close with that - is the very interesting debate we have had on compulsoryity and fines. What did you tell us, Mr. Tsipras? You told us that the EUR 100 fine, which we imposed, is too much for a pensioner who takes EUR 500, but it is a little for a pensioner who takes EUR 2 000. So you actually told us that the fines - that I understood - must be proportionate. Aren't you telling me, when you're being fined for a road traffic violation, is the fine proportionate?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u132	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u133	I am sorry to say this, but it is a sign of great ignorance for a man who has run the country four years. You have involved taxes, which under the Constitution can be proportionate, with administrative fines, which cannot be proportionate. But you don't even know that at last? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The fine shall be an administrative measure, which shall concern all of them without exception. And in this, it is not different from other fines, which the Greek state imposes in the event of other infringements. Finally, because we have come here to discuss possible alternatives - since you said what you said, you have not proposed a substantial alternative, I understand that you will vote against this proposal - I would like to ask you whether you agree with the interesting view, which I read from Mr Geraggiofa - from what I understand is in the committee of wise men whom you have made and which advise you on public health issues, I respect him as a scientist, I understand that he has an excellent CV - which is in favour of universal vaccination, because he does not want to make a distinction between ages, over sixty years and under sixty years. It also has a very interesting proposal on how it perceives compulsoryity. A simple idea is that the invaders cannot access public transport, public services, tax information. In other words, the consistency of tax obligations will not be able to obtain tax information, it will not be able to take the public transport. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I do not think I need to argue or need to be a constitutionalist to explain how unconstitutional these proposals are. Since, however, it is your advice - you have announced it - on grounds and branches, I have to ask you whether these views reflect your own views and the views of your party, or, in any case, whether you intend in this debate to table - because something like this - another amendment that you are dealing with - and is being dealt with - the issue of increasing the rates of vaccination in the category of over sixty years in question. You have the opportunity now to answer all these questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u134	For a few minutes, he has the floor of Mr. Tsipras, Chief of Police Vice-Population.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u135	I shall speak very briefly, Mr President, not three minutes. Mr Mitsotakis, once again you prove that you are really in panic and you change your mind from day to day and what you accuse yourself of as unconstitutional, you come to impose it. And the Minister standing next to you, who defended the view of the unconstitutionality of compulsion, is at stake. But how can he not be fascinated? It was here that, as a Member, not as Minister, he had made statements saying that it was not the government's job to convince citizens to be vaccinated earlier - we all know his political womb and his views - he had submitted his irrational views to the Greek Parliament against the logic of vaccination, the vaccines, before the pandemic came. So you come here today, proving this difficult position in which you are, once again attacking the opposition, especially everything you have told us and have to do with the situation today in hospitals, calling us all liars, liars, liars, liars, liars to the people of EIAP, lying to the people of OENGE, lying to the people of WTO, lying to the people who once applaud them, but now you tell them liars, liars and citizens who come in contact with this tragedy in which we are in today. And you prove that you are the author of this tragedy that Greek society is experiencing today. You are a perpetrator because you also gave wrong signals and decisions you did not take and you did not have a genuine political will to strengthen the public health system. But - and I am closing with this, Mr President - the most important of all is your credibility deficit, Mr Mitsotakis. The credibility deficit is what you cannot deal with, because credibility, confidence - to say otherwise - is the most important immunity wall that we should set against the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u136	Your mask, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u137	Yes, I am sorry, Mr President, but I have a three-mile distance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u138	I understand, but my colleague from the Change Movement is a horrific man.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u139	I hope it's for the right reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u140	That's good. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u141	The confidence deficit, Mr Mitsotakis, is what you cannot deal with. And you can't have, build a climate of confidence - so in Portugal they had 87% vaccination, and here we only have 60%, 61% - when from the first moment you are the one who creates a climate of untrustworthiness in your relations with the citizens, when from the first moment you are the one who violates the measures that you put, you legislate, when you are facing the vaccination campaign in the logic of media financing, to create your own status. And today, which, based on the opportunity offered by the Constitution, is being held by a committee of inquiry, hide your ministers, not to mention any of them, and they come and testify and have to tell truths about your fraudulent choice to take the money of Greek taxpayers and instead of making a campaign essential, to create your own status in the media. How can you be credible? How can you trust me? The census doesn't go any further either. Are you concerned about this, ladies and gentlemen? Does it concern you that, on your day, a climate of refusal is being created for citizens of self-evident things? Or is it SYRIZA and the Opposition that humiliates all this? Therefore, trust, a lack of credibility, which is largely due to you personally and to everything you have promised in the election and everything you have done sincerely. You promised the retired people that you would keep their thirteenth pension and you came and get the thirteenth pension, the EUR 1 billion - the 1 billion that we legislationd to go to pensioners every year every fifth month - and you gave it to cover the holes in the balance sheet, the public budget created by the privatisation of the ancillary funds. And you have now come to give them EUR 300 million, EUR 200 million to the pensioners, in the name of the fact that you are now making a social policy. When we gave 800 million euros, you called them crumbs. Lack of confidence, lack of credibility and lack of confidence cannot deal with pandemic. So you are an accelerator of the crisis. You're not the reason he created - Woe! - but you're an accelerator of the crisis. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You have a huge responsibility for the tragedy that Greek society is experiencing today and from your speech here today it seemed that, in fact, what you realised - and that is why you react in this way - is that you cannot ultimately avoid this responsibility. The Greek people record and charge to your Government the contradictions and revolts and the health tragedy that is under way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u142	And it will close this dialogue - the Prime Minister, who is waiting for Mr Velopoulos, President of the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u143	No, I would really rather not close the dialogue with the Prime Minister's trilogy, Mr President, because, Mr Tsipras, the best proof of a difficult parliamentary situation for the respondent is to try to change the subject and talk about pensioners when we talk about pandemic. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So I want to ask you two very simple questions, I will repeat them: Do you think, yes or no, that they need to change the health protocols in schools, so that they close the schools more easily? Question in particular, you can answer it with a yes or a no. And I would like you to tell me very much - I will say again - if you agree with your adviser's views that they cannot have access to public transport, public services, tax information and so on. These are two specific questions, therefore, concerning policy options. We are not here to speak generally, detachedly, with the same wooden language that the Greek people have denounced. I specifically asked you whether there is an alternative to what we are doing. Your advisor has an alternative very specific proposal: Compulsory vaccination in over eighteen and a ban on the invaders entering the tram, the bus and the metro instead of an administrative fine. It's a proposition. I want your opinion, he's your counselor. You announced him to us after the realms and branches. Do you agree or do you disagree, Mr. Tsipras, yes or no? It's very simple. Answer me, then!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u144	Here, Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Mitsotakis, I was hoping you'd keep a level in today's confrontation. So I'll answer you. I was hoping, but you've completely lost it. [[Noise - laughers from the wing of the New Republic]] Mr Mitsotakis, I will answer one - one on the issues that you have raised to me. First theme is the situation in schools: Health bombing today in schools. 25% of the cases recorded - do you know that, are they true, or are they false? - they're kids. Thirty-five percent, the me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u146	Can we turn it off?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u147	So the proposal we have tabled and you know it very well is first of all to dilute the parts, first of all. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Don't laugh, don't laugh! To dilute the departments! Schools were closed, as they opened last year and this year, and in the most difficult year, you decide to merge school departments, increase the number of pupils per class to the greatest possible extent. You have criminal responsibility for this! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you have criminal responsibility, because the Minister of Education and you personally have only done two years now is to be concerned about how you will favour private interests in the field of education and not how you will upgrade public schools, the public education system and how you will shape security conditions for the parent who goes to school every day and his heart is in Koulari. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Secondly, will you give an answer - you have provoked me - on the case of the decision of the committee responsible for personal data, in relation to the history of 'CISCO', with the agreement of Mrs Kerrameo? Will you give me an answer? It's another example of your irresponsibility and inadequacy in the management of the pandemic. And third of all, for the schools, and I'm closing. I tabled our proposal from Stepma. I don't know if you heard her. It closes every section - not a school, school may never be closed - when 50%+1 of students are infected in class. I mean, you've actually legislated never to close. And you're coming and you're swinging my finger and you're asking me to trilog. You got me stuck in the wall now with this. So you come here and tell you that what you're doing is unreasonable. In fact, you have decided our schools to be places where the virus is incubating and transported to the community. So the self-evident thing would be the department - not the school - in the first case close for three days. That's what I told you. Close for three days, not close forever. And to go on the fourth day to school having done not rapid test, but with negative molecular test, which will give it free of charge to the public health system, having the responsibility. That is the proposal we are tabling for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u148	All students are tested regularly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u149	You ask for suggestions. If you disagree with the proposals, tell us and explain that you disagree with the proposals. But you don't do that. You're detesting. You say 'you have no positions', you say 'you have no proposals'. And yes, Mr Mitsotakis, so that we do not monopolize the debate today, because they want others to speak, I have consultants who speak their opinions. You also have consultants who speak their own opinions. I read today Mr Mossillo saying his opinion on your decision to impose a fine of EUR 100. And he says you're wrong. And he says it won't work. And he says it would be preferable instead of fines, to give positive incentives to retired people. Do you agree or disagree with your counselor's view? Do you agree or disagree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u150	I disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u151	I also know that you have Mr. Pavlakis' counselor. Do you agree or disagree with his proposal to move to local lockdown as quickly as possible? Scientists have the responsibility to formulate their proposal regardless of political controversy and, if you like, to conquest this for our democracy. They are responsible and if they wish to consult political people. What you are doing here today is another attempt to underestimate science and its importance in our efforts to deal with the virus. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because all the time you have been telling us "we follow science", at the end you deceived it, at the end you make decisions beyond and outside what the relevant committees tell you, you put in naphthalene those who don't make you and you consider by the scientist party tutors. Yes, well, I have advisers who have the courage to give their opinions and their opinions, which are not necessarily the view expressed by a party as a whole or myself in this House and in the public speech. I hear opinions, and when I make a mistake, I admit it. What exactly do you do? What you are doing is at the critical moment, at the time of the crisis, instead of as Prime Minister of Responsibility that unites the Greek people and listens to other views and follows the scientists and brings the opposition to a framework of understanding, move the finger and divide Greek society. You are the sculptor of the health tragedy that the Greek people are experiencing today!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u152	Come on, Mr. President. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u153	I have no problem with that, Mr. Tsipras, in scientific terms. I have a problem with my unconsciousness. I have a problem with populism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u154	No populism!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u155	I have a problem with the distortion of reality. And, yes, there is ultimately one issue when you are criticising without any documented counter-proposal. You asked me about the proposal...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u156	Wait! He hasn't finished his proposal and place himself?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u157	You asked me about Mr Mossilos's opinion. Obviously, I disagree with Mr Mossilos's view. Because if I agreed, we would not have gone ahead with the introduction of this measure. You did not, however, have the courage to make a clear statement on your counsellor's point of view, which is an opinion which, if anything, is a proposal. It is a concrete proposal. You have not tabled a proposal throughout the pandemic, with the exception of the usual counties for the creation of a section above. As if this country could suddenly go from twenty thousand to twenty-five thousand departments, as if it could hire fifty thousand teachers. This government hired permanent teachers for the first time in ten years and added the Deputy Professors to cover the gaps! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Decide, Mr. Tsipras, at last if you are with common sense and with the collective effort to tackle the pandemic and leave the sharing of responsibilities with the Greek people when the election time comes. This party will continue to walk by listening to the scientists. We have never isolated any scientists, never made any changes in the relevant committee which consults us. The question of schools again is wrong, because if there is a case in this protocol there is an increased number of tests on the children who are in the department, precisely to keep the children in the department. I wonder who has scientifically supported your proposal to close the departments for three days. Half the schools would be closed at a high speed and we would be back in a regime where half the schools would be open and half the schools would be run by teleworking. We have chosen to keep our schools open, with increased tests. We will continue to defend this policy, and we are sure that for our children as well as for the overall monitoring of the epidemic through the tests we are doing, we have the right approach. But let it be. Finally, you're right about one thing. The government will be judged on its options. We, with political courage, are making a decision which is not easy, as I have explained. I think I have given sufficient explanations of our thinking and of the need to take this decision at this particular moment. I would once again like to ask our fellow citizens who are incapable of rushing and closing the appointment, even if this is with feelings of discontent to the government. This is not my concern at this juncture. It's none of my business if it'll cost me a few more votes in the election. I am convinced that we are doing the right thing and I am convinced that this policy will save lives!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u158	Intervention for the Ministry of Health bill has a line for the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u159	As you can see, "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drinks." Finish the game. The fight between Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis - and I denounce it - was well established, with the support of the President of this House. It's incomprehensible what's going on. Since 1974, when I have been following the House since a small child, it has never been such an improper violation of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, and we must all be ashamed of it. I am sure that if Mr Kutsubas or the other leaders were here, you would not do that, Mr President. Of course, masks fell. If I didn't believe it to this day and I had a concern that they would collide, today after what I saw they would have 100% after the elections if they didn't already collide. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] All set! Affliction! Disenchantment! It is a picture of the House where, indeed, even now, the deceptiveness of Members has been reflected for their colleagues. It is a dream of democracy that the lack of equilibrium, the lack of fair conduct and treatment by the Bureau of Parliament. It is the arrogance of the mighty, the arrogance of the great, theoretically. Some people know something in here. And the last ones come first. And the first ones become last! Understood! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So the indiscriminate right of the Greek Solution was spoken by the President of the Parliament "we are in the face". Whoa, president of the House! Whoa! That's as far as it goes. No one has the Greek solution in the face. It's our inalienable right. And that we work here every day, unlike all the other leaders, is our right and we will do so and we will do so. We will speak every day, since your party, Mr President of Parliament, has swept us off all the channels. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It is our only refuge for the Greek Parliament to speak. After all, in the rest of your channels, you're sneezing us. There is nowhere in the big channels you are feeding again with 5m euros, Mr Plori, Minister, along with the Prime Minister, to fade the rest of the parties. You're trying to suffocate here, attempt to suffocate into the media. So we are going to have an insurgent democracy, we are going to impose democracy, we are not going to do anything else. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I did not expect it - of course it is also a matter of ethos and style - both from Mr Tsipras and from Mr Mitsotakis. They're unfair to themselves, they're really unfair to them. If they think that they can continue this forever, they're wrong. Elections are coming in the next few months. The Greek people understood today. Because I from Mr. Tsipras didn't finally hear what he would do. Will he vote on the proposal for unconstitutionalisation for the mandatory vaccination submitted only by the Greek Solution, yes or no? A proposal for an anti-constitutionalism was tabled only by the Greek Solution, for compulsory vaccination for over sixty. Is SYRIZA going to vote or are we coming here to do our theater? Illegal, theatrical performance. In fact, if we were to bring up a theatrical performance today, the two leading protagonists would be Mr. Tsipras and the Prime Minister of the country. I really mean what I'm saying and I'm ashamed of myself as a politician and I'm ashamed of myself as a congressman. The indifference to the Greek Parliament and to their fellow Members gives me astonishment, alpine impression, athletic behaviour, uncut behaviour, which should not exist. Why don't some people think people don't see the Parliament's channel. They see. And, of course, I would remind the Prime Minister of what he said, because we will respond in spite of the clear response from Mr Tsipras to the new problems of the Prime Minister. Clearly treated, lukewarm, glycolate. Qualified Opposition that not even co-government does. Now listen. He told the Prime Minister that mandatory vaccination became necessary. Need! It changes the meanings, like the Catholic priest baptizing the meat of fish, while wearying to eat the fish and saying that the meat is fish, so it goes. It's the logic of being compulsorily necessitated. The need, Prime Minister, as far as human beings are concerned, is the unpleasant feeling of a shortage, which is accompanied by the desire to eliminate it. That means need. So there's no need for the vaccine. You made it compulsory for it to be necessary. That's your fault. Because it is necessary and necessary for Greece and for ITH to have doctors and medicines and primary care. That's the need. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You just want to impose the obligation, because this authoritarianity - and I will tell you directly - leads me to my own thought. I talked about Catholic priests. I'm going to the Prime Minister now. The Catholic priests when they sinned made themselves selfish, not to be forgotten. They were hiding in the cellar and automating. You only do today as Catholic priests are to change the terms, to change the concepts, but to masturbate the truth, the language, the logic and the Greek people. These must stop. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Gentlemen of the New Democracy, there are only two forces in the world: the sword and the spirit. In time the sword is always beaten by spirit and you need to know well, at least some who are also academics. The government for a year and a half has chosen the sword, has not chosen the spirit. And I'm going to give you a revelation now that no one said it or said it, of course, by SYRIZA or by Mr. Tsipras. What you see is a book sharing in kindergartens. The Ministry of Education shares it, Mr. Plori, you guys have one. This is the book, free of charge to children, toddlers - you were Minister of Education. It's Mr. Triviza and I'll testify to it in the Minutes. Here's what he says to understand which country we live in. On page fourteen, it speaks of the coronary in the children: "We will unleash many, millions of viruses, to the people of the planet, into their eyes, into their noses, and in addition to them they will also be put into their mouths." That's what they learn in infants. On page sixteen, he says: "We will attack them with furiousness, until everyone suffers pneumonia, they also attack our grandparents." Listen to what they say to the kids so they don't go to their grandparents and what they call it. On page 20, it says: "As soon as you get to the community, to grandparents and grandmothers, give my freaks priority." On page 22, he says: "Don't leave them in green cry, they are the worst enemies. They usually wear glasses and they have white or grey hair, grandparents and grandparents, they are old and they like to embrace grandchildren." That's what the kids read. Isolate the kids from the grandparents and grandparents. This book was shared in Attica schools. To the children, to the innocent souls, you do it, gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mr. Pleari. And you're not ashamed? What are you doing? Grandpa and Grandma can't hug the child? Is that what she's been learning since she was a kid? What are you doing here? And here's Mr. Chiodra's picture of Mr. Triviza, he's here together. When I read it, I was angry, because we all have kids, some of us have grandchildren.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u160	Does she say anything about waxes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u161	Please, no holiday to the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u162	Because nonsense is not being fought or defeated, I will tell you, Mr. Philie, you have beaten me. I'm talking about a social issue and you're talking about my profession. I work, work, pay hundreds of workers. You guys don't know what you did in your life. All you did was provide a service to know what we're talking about. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I produce work, it makes difference, I export, I pay tax. That's what I do to anyone who likes it. Vote unequivocally Chief and stop speaking and cause my own memory.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u163	...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u164	Please, these words are not written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u165	They have a right to both religions and atheists to bore. I'll leave you to your barbarity. You are a barbaric indeed, with the ancient Greek expression of the term. You're bored, Mr. Friend. You are bored, and unfortunately you have also been a Minister of Education. Rejoice him. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's actually go. So you share books that attempt to break the traditional family. You share books - that did not bother Mr. Friends - who say about our grandparents, that children should not embrace them. That's what he says. The rest of us are talking about it, there are. But that way is unwise, that way is inhuman. This way in children’s little souls creates a syndrome that some do not understand. Everyone can say what they want, in democracy, even stupidity is tolerated. But fascist conception, authoritarian perception, is condemned. The insult is an insult. I'm not taking anybody's glove. I'm not one of them. But I am still waiting for the SYRIZA gentlemen to tell us who are flying if they will vote for the request for unconstitutionality for forced vaccination. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] All other things are prophecies in sin. Support the New Democracy and be quiet, because you will confront it. So let's go to the rest. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have committed an irreversible. I say it raw. What is the hybris in the ancient Greek conception? Hybris was a basic concept, worldview of ancient Greece, when one, overestimated his potential, his power, his political, military and economic power, subjected to a life of arrogant and insulting to society or to faces. That was the hybris. But then he caused the nemesis. So the New Democracy, the divine trial, will come to the elections and you will pay for what you are doing. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Because what you're doing is wrong. It's the wrath and vengeance of the people coming. So, to make it clear, what's your hybrid? I'll tell you now. Disperse into authoritarianism, plunge through your inability into authoritarian choices incapable of persuading, incapable of predicting, incapable of organising, incapable of saving. You are only capable of imposing, forcing, punishing the Greek. That's the hybris, and that's the result. And I'll tell you something as a proverbial expression. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you can barely drive him anywhere. An English proverb says you can drive the horse into the water, but you can't make it drink. Remember that. By force you won't convince anyone. We're telling you one more time. Action brings a reaction, Mr. Plori, gentlemen of the New Democracy, gentlemen of the Government. I am also always speaking - and the Greek Solution - with arguments. Kikilis, 27 November 2020: “The vaccine will not be mandatory because it is unconstitutional.” Former Minister of Health. What's changed since then? What's changed since then? You tell me. I'll tell you: you're wrong. Take it back now. Compulsory vaccination doesn't lead to persuasion. It's a mistake to tell you! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] First time in the constitutional history of the country, democratically elected government, in breach of the principle of separation of powers, exercises judicial functions. It's never happened before. And what's he doing? It imposes a penalty, without giving the citizen the right to apologise, to object, to have a hearing beforehand, to go and make complaints. No, authoritarianly imposes 100 euros on them. I will not say, of course, what the Prime Minister said - I wanted the Prime Minister to be here, but we said - on 10 March 2009. Each treatment should be adjusted to the individual patient’ s needs. I consider every man's inalienable right to choose the healing method that suits him." We're the only ones here talking about arguments. We're the only ones who don't play the theater of irrationality. We are the only ones who have a say, a point of view, and we are the voice of reason. And every day that's what we're gonna do. Our fathers, grandparents, grandparents, are being avenged today. A hundred euros when the other one's not retired to eat, he has no bread to get. A hundred euros fine! At the end of the day, I see the New Democracy enforcing the well-known law 'Being legal'. Do you know the "Prince the Lawful," Mr. Plearis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u166	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u167	You know that. You know that, Mr. Phile, you who were the Minister of Education, "The Lawful", what was the case in ancient Greece, in Kea? You don't know that. You were Minister of Education, Mr. Phile. The 'List of legality'. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You might know I said. I don't know if you know. I said, maybe. That's a case law. At the age of sixty, therefore, in Kea, the advocates had the right to commit suicide. In the end, you'll bring it here as a law. That's where you're taking it. ‘Vote the legal person’. You laugh, Pleari, but I remember you were saying other things a few years ago about the Prespes and the vaccines. And today, Mr Plori, you say other things. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] But the consistency of words and works determines the course of a political man and a man. This is the difference between the speaking and all the members of the Greek Solution. Whatever we say, we mean it. Whatever we say, we'll do it. What we are defending will be imposed by democratic procedures, not authoritarian choices like you have done. So, gentlemen, since you are putting 100 euros in a fine, I would like to hear that, Mr Ploiros, say that it is an option. Okay. Why don't you do the same thing when the other guy doesn't retire and wait two, three years? You can make him lighten up, then. The state says it's because the man didn't get the pension to live. So he won't pay tax, he won't pay HPAI, he won't pay electricity, he won't pay phone, he won't pay PPC, because the state doesn't pay him his pension to pay. You're freezing everything. Do that until the pension comes out. And because you don't get the pension, you pay 100 euros a fine every month. But if you're fair, you're fair. If you think you're fair and you're putting 100 euros fines, I hear that. It's your choice. I disagree. But get the state to pay 100 euros for every pension that doesn't come out every month and give him the tax exemption, HISBIA. Only that's how you honor proud old age, grandparents, grandparents, grandparents, mothers, mothers. Not like that. That's how you avenge them. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And finally, gentlemen, here all of you, who are not really ashamed of yourself, are making a constitutional court - leave jokes with the constitutionalists, Mr Manitakis, one another. Syntologists, all of them. But we don't have a constitutional court, what are constitutionalists? You're making a constitutional court. No object, no science. We don't have a constitutional court. We have a S.T.E. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on the situation in the former Yugoslavia and whether he would like to make a statement on the situation in the former Yugoslavia. Prespecies, S.T.E., now other decisions. They come out accordingly how they want and how the government feels, since they are political choices. So let's make a constitutional court. Let this finally be done. Another proposal which, in fact, I have never heard you apply. Mr. Plearis, do you know that those who owe the FBI for eight, nine months are uninsured? You know that? People have paid twenty years, fifteen, thirty. They've paid and have no benefits. I want to see you here, Mr Ploirou, in social policy, not anti-Fraud policy. I want you in social policy, next to society, next to the citizen, next to the people. And because some people say we're not like Mr. Tsipras. We will be tabling some seventeen proposals in the Minutes on the subject of vaccination, ICUs and all these events. It puts forward proposals for the Greek Solution, not fairy tales. They come here and argue without suggestions. We'll testify for the Minutes of the House, so that the history of the future at least knows. I'm going to say something, to close now and not hurt the few who have stayed here, because the two chiefs spoke and the festival ended, the theatre is over, we have to go home and drink our coffee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u168	You're insulting us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u169	I'm not talking about you, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u170	You're exaggerating us!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u171	I'm not surpassing. But they're all gone! There's one left, you guys! Here's one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u172	And you exaggerate me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u173	I didn't say about you. Why do you have the fly and scratch? Why do you have the fly and you smell?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u174	Do you exaggerate... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u175	He's complaining about staying here and kidnapping him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u176	Did I say "Philis"?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u177	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u178	Friend friend, the truth. I did not say "Philis". You think it's on your own.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u179	It's funny what you're saying. Let's actually go. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are vengeful. The measure for us is vengeful and racist, Mr. Pluri. As Kofukius said before you started a vengeance trip, Mr. Plori, gentlemen of the New Democracy dig two graves. Revenge has two graves. Today with what you did - I tell you and go out to society - you dug your political grave. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You put tombstones in the future of your party and the truth of Greece. Every day a hundred lives are lost today, the president of the WTO said. Today. I heard him with my ears this morning at 'OPEN'. A hundred lives. Otherwise in the New Democracy you say everything is going well. A hundred lives because there aren't any IDs. The President of the WTO said so. The man in charge. Also, they haven't taken overtime yet. Is it true, Mr. Pluri? Six months have to take overtime. The President of the WTO said so. You've got seven thousand people suspended, nurses, doctors. You threw them in the trash. Unbelievable thing. What vengeful maniac is she to the people they offered? Heroes you told them, you applauded them. Now suddenly in the trash. Let me tell you why you didn't convince? I'll tell you now. You lied too much. You made a lot of mistakes. First, you made the politicians, many of you, Mr. Pleari, doctors. Since the morning I've seen ministers in the channels make doctors. Only their white apron is missing. They advise on health, advise on vaccines, advise on ICUs, advise on masks. Politicians who become doctors. It's not the worst thing you made doctor politicians. For example, Mrs. Gaga was responsible somewhere in the committee, she went out on the channels, she became Minister. I honor her. But it's not working that way. Third, you set up a new scientists' committee while there's another one. Fourthly, the ERC is falling apart. We all know. With Greeks getting married. Your scientists say so, Mr. Pleari. How much that honors you. I don't know. They're dreading. In my village they say "I put the crabs on each other". The dead and the patients are being shaken. Fifthly, it is fully documented that our vaccinated fellow citizens are suffering and transmitting. The Prime Minister said so here a moment ago. Until a month ago, the Prime Minister told us that with the vaccine the story is over. It's okay. Now he's telling us he's transmitting. He was telling us about a pandemic of unblemished people when the Prime Minister now singles himself out of a step in the House and says that even the vaccinated ones are transmitting. We found the Greek uninvasive, the evil, the leper a month ago. But now we are saying that the vaccines are transmitting too. Also, because some want examples to convince you that they are lying. Example one. Kapravvelos at "Antenna", at the show "Good day Greece", by Mr. Papadakis. "A lie about vaccinated animals," says the scientist that we lie to say "in every on-call in fifty imports the ten - eleven are fully vaccinated". Your scientist says so. "The image that goes to create the system that is intact, that we have returned to normality is wrong. Secondly, Hectactyl in the "Athens" in "SKAI". "At this moment we've had a sneezing of people in the intensive daily for several weeks." Dying. It's like people are fruits and vegetables to babysitter them. Ice at SKAI: “It was not for fifteen committees. A committee of seven people and end the story." This is all a disgrace, Mr. Pleari. Shame on why you undo yourself. Your scientists. Yours. They're not my own scientists. I didn't put them on. You put them on. But I don't see a prosecutor interfering. I don't even see any make news. Fourth, Daisy Strings. The first party to speak about the drugs here in the Greek Parliament was us. And let some people stop hating this story. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Daisy rope, November 25, 2021. At some point in the European portfolio, we must put the therapeutic options in place. They've been checked. Eight - nine treatments have been approved and are available to any government he wants, Mr Plori. Why don't you address Mr. Shoe? Why don't you take your medication? It's called the rope. Unless he's wrong. As far as I know, New Democracy is him. It's yours. And he's wrong? Are all the neo-democrats wrong? Fifth, director of the World Health Organisation: 'falsely the sense of security that vaccines have ended the pandemic. And the vaccinated ones also need precautions.” What can I say? Am I? The Romanian MEP, Mr Fourteen, complained on a Greek channel that the contracts between companies, Mr Ploiris, were written and written down when they were given to Members of Parliament - we cannot take the conventions - were written and the agreements and terms were deleted. Can I send you the video, Mr. Plearis? The agreement between the European Union on the supply of vaccines with companies has had black pages for terms and side effects. Adopted by the Commission on 18 December. Let me send it to you. Mr Metarakis came out the other day, Mr Plearis - all the ministers, of course, have a chair on the channels - and said they don't stick a coronary to the structures. And I'm having a shock. And I say "something is wrong, the DNA of the Greeks is probably because of the blood of the Greeks." It comes out today and says "Evangelism" and "Salvation" foreign patients are constantly growing. In "Salvation" 25% of hospitals are foreigners under the age of 30. In the “Evangelism”, foreigners with an infection of COVID account for 55% of the hospitals. In the ‘First Subject’. We don't care if they're Greek or foreign. Don't confuse it now. But Metarakis can't lie. He can't go out and say these things. People listen and say "something doesn't go well here, they lie to us all the time." Mr President, all Europe is unfortunately under terrorism and comitology. And I want to say something. We live the time of the Jacobins. Do you remember her, Mr. Pluri? You don't know her. It's okay. It is the time when they used all means of violence, Mr. Academic, to build the new social order then the Jacobines in the French revolution. You know, the problem of the New Democracy is that few know history. And because few know history, most of them swallowed the Prespes and the unscrupulous for Macedonia. I'm afraid so. But some people know history. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So the Jacobines executed humans. Today European politicians and European governments are making freedoms. That's the truth. They perform all freedom. The European Union is being diverted. That's the truth. We do not want a European Union to be diverted. We want a Europe of peoples, values and nations. Listen to the news that scared me, ladies and gentlemen. in Germany, General Carsten Broyer, head of the pandemic group. Soldier, general. In Italy the general from Afghanistan promotes the vaccination campaign. In Portugal, Deputy Admiral Enrique Guveya e Member, head of the Special Vaccination Team. The countries in Europe are putting military troops in place for forced vaccination. Where are we going? Supermarket in Romania German interests. I have a picture. He put wires inside the supermarket to get the vaccinated and the invasive. Mr. Flouris, where Europe is going. Where is Greece going? We therefore call on the Members who are still far away from their parties to vote for the request for unconstitutionality we tabled a moment ago. Not in mandatory vaccination, yes to convince you. That's what we're saying. I'm closing up with St. John the Chrysostomos. I'd like Mr. Friends to be here. "The powerful consider it self-evident that they should be wronged and unfair to the weak. Like fish in the sea, it eats the big little one." But here, Mr. Pleari, we're talking about people. And you are no longer strong, nor excellent, but you are heretic. And in the next elections it will turn out that you are only capable of controlling the media, of checking the taxes and of sending them to anyone who disagrees with you, of controlling the PSE and of chasing people who disagree with you, of controlling and imposing fines on every Greek citizen. Mr. Plori, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the boy always beats the big man when he's right. And we're sure of one thing. We may be young at the present stage in the Greek Parliament, but you, despite the fact that you are old, are too small for the burden of the country. The way you go, you'll lose. You will lose because the logic and democracy are always defeated by irrationalism and authoritarianism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u180	As Mr Velopoulos said, and as we already know, the Greek Party colleagues have put forward an objection of unconstitutionality in accordance with Rule 100 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure for Amendment No 1153 and special number 168. It is precisely because this objection of constitutionality has been raised and the House is asked to give its opinion, we will proceed before the speeches of Mr Katrin and Mr Gregoriadis as Parliamentary Representatives in the implementation of paragraph 2 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the House in particular in order to discuss this objection of the Greek Party. They have the right to speak on behalf of the objectioned, Mr Villiardos Vassiliou. Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou has been appointed by the majority. They are also entitled to speak in this interactive debate by the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or by the Parliamentary Representatives and Ministers responsible for each for five minutes of the hour. We therefore begin the debate on the objection of unconstitutionalism by listening to the name of Mr Vassiliou Villardo. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Now, of course, I have already heard it thinks that it is unconstitutional and that the Minister for Health, Mr Ploris, has spoken on this subject in the recent past, as well as Mr Kikilias. So it's a little time to talk about me, but of course it's our obligation and I'll do it. The contested article 1 of Amendment No 1153/168 imposes compulsory vaccination against COVID -19 on all natural persons who are resident or normally resident in the Greek territory who are born until 31 December 1961, that is to say, 60 years old. Those persons should have received the first or only dose of the vaccine by 16 January 2022, unless they have been ill less than eighty days or have established health grounds preventing vaccination. Otherwise, it shall impose an administrative fine of EUR 100 for every month not to be vaccinated, which shall be confirmed through the ADP, the foreign ADP. The above rules go against the following: First, Article 2(1) of the Constitution. This article writes: First, respect and protection of the human value are the primary obligation of the state. It's a clear story. And it is Article 5(1) of the Constitution which states: everyone has the right to freely develop his or her personality and to participate in the country's social, economic and political life if he does not violate the rights of others and does not violate the Constitution or the proper customs. It follows from the combination of these articles that everyone has the right to have his body freely and not to allow interventions in his or her body without his or her will. I will say this once again because it is very important. Each of us has the right to have his body freely and not to allow interventions in his body without his will. Therefore, the state, of course, in a democratic environment, cannot impose vaccination by force or by the threat of criminal or administrative sanctions and especially administrative fines equivalent to criminal punishment. This anti-constitutional article in all its provisions is governed by a spirit of extreme neoliberalism and is in complete contrast with the above Articles, namely Article 2(1) and Article 5(1) of the Constitution relating to the value of man and the free development of personality. The same stems first from International Law, as well as second from Article 7(1) of the ECHR, which reads as follows: Any person is entitled to respect for his or her private and family life. Thirdly, since 2361/2021 a resolution by the Council of Europe - I have it here - where Article 731 asks the Member States: to ensure that citizens are informed, that vaccination is not compulsory - it is not compulsory! - and that no one will be under pressure by political, social or other means to be vaccinated if they do not want it. No pressure, it's clearly stated. And secondly, in Article 4(1) and (2) of the Constitution, it reads: the Greeks are equal before the law. I say again: the Greeks are equal, all of us are before the law. And secondly: Greeks and Greeks have equal rights and obligations. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] In accordance with these provisions, the imposition of a horizontal single administrative fine of EUR 100 to rich and poor over sixty years is also unconstitutional. It is completely unfair and obviously unconstitutional to impose the same amount on a pensioner of EUR 400 and on an income of EUR 10 000 per month. It is not a car accident, of course, as we have heard before, but something quite different. It's obvious the first one will destroy him. Finally, the unconstitutionality of the contested provisions is immediately apparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u182	Thank you. Mr Nicolakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the objection to anti-constitutionalism of the Greek Solution is based in its first part at least on two articles, Article 2 of the Constitution on the protection of human value and Article 5 on the free development of personality. Article 5 itself, however, states that freedom of movement is developed without prejudice to the rights of others. Furthermore, Article 5(5) provides that everyone has a right to the protection of health and genetic identity. In addition to Article 21 of the Constitution, it stipulates that the State ensures that citizens' health and takes specific measures to protect the youth, old age, disability and the care of the most deprived. Of course, all this means that it is not only the protection of value and the free development of personality but also the protection of the health of the citizens. Article 25 stipulates how these rights are limited. Human rights as a person and as a member of the social system and the principle of the social state are guaranteed by the State and any restrictions which may be imposed in the Constitution on such rights must be provided either directly by the Constitution or by the law in so far as it is subject to its prerogative and must respect the principle of proportionality. The restrictions on the earlier rights laid down in Article 2 and Article 5 may therefore be applied where they are proportionate and where the restrictions are necessary and appropriate to achieve the purpose of which they wish to achieve. In this case the purpose is determined by health criteria and is the specific age group over the sixty which has been deemed to need health criteria for further protection. And this is defined by specific statistics, which have emerged, which provide that nine out of ten fellow citizens who are dying are over sixty and seven out of ten who are also intact are over sixty years old. So the purpose is to protect the particular group of citizens, which is the most vulnerable. But it is not only the protection of individual health but also the protection of public health and the whole of society, since it is therefore very likely that our fellow citizens will pass on the disease. Of course, there is also a need to protect the public health system. Because from this age group it is more likely that the public health system will be imposed, as I mentioned seven out of ten seamless people come from this age group. So, Mr President, since this category is the most burdensome of the public health system, it is necessary, appropriate and proportionate. This has also been decided by the Council of State, number one. 2387 of 2020, but also with a recent judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which it considered to be a constitutional requirement for compulsory vaccination, if proportionate, necessary and appropriate. Of course, with regard to the second part of the objection, which refers to the infringement of Article 4(1) and (2) of the Constitution, which states that all Greeks are equal before the law, and here again it is foreseen that if this age criterion, on health criteria, has always been established, it is necessary to prevent the spread and to protect the rights that I mentioned before, the sanction provided for is a purely legal measure in order to impose the mandatoryity and is no longer proportionate. It is therefore an appropriate measure to deal with this infringement and is not subject to proportionality. It would be unconstitutional if specific, different criteria were introduced, which would impose a different penalty according to conditions not provided for in the Constitution. We therefore call for the objection of unconstitutionality to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Blonde has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. We, ladies and gentlemen, are focusing our criticism on this regulation that it is a measure that does not respond to the need to promote and encourage universal vaccination, that has elements of non-justice and non-proliferation, and that is why it will prove ineffective. There are issues of constitutionality that have been raised in the public debate by authors. Even Mr Manitakis, who has been invoked by the Prime Minister, has made two fundamental conditions: one is that all the earlier interventions and all the moves that the organised state must make to convince, which has obviously not taken place, and secondly that it must be fully documented, so there must be a recommendation from the relevant scientific bodies, either from the National Committee for Vaccines or from the National Bioethics Commission, to make such a decision. That doesn't exist either. We therefore believe that this intervention is taking place in the light of an overall deadlock in the vaccination strategy, a swab of the programme. The shell was diagnosed very early since the beginning of the summer. There were proposals at that time for a credible restart, which would strengthen participation in the necessary universal vaccination, particularly of vulnerable and vulnerable groups, such as the elderly, but not only the elderly. There are immunosuppressed, there are cancer patients, there are populations of special vulnerability, such as living in camps, camps, prisoners, drug addicts, the homeless for whom no organised care has ever been taken. So we consider that this is the crucial issue, inefficiency in terms of public health, not the constitutional issue. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not defend one's right not to be vaccinated. We consider, in particular, that it is a moral and professional obligation for people working in the health system to be vaccinated. But at the same time we defend the right of society as a whole and the inconvenience to survival, dignity, universal health coverage. And the measures you are promoting are undone. That is why we look back on this. We do not support the objection of unconstitutionality. We shall say 'the present' to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u186	Please, Mr Katrin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. I think that human fear and incomplete information is being fought with proper and timely information from high-level scientists and not unreliable politicians and is certainly not being forced to fight. Is that what the government has achieved? It has not succeeded, as all the revolts so far show, in the marginalisation of scientists, unfortunately we are now at the point of discussing compulsoryity, which the Prime Minister has been forced to do while not wanting to do so. But there are serious questions about this provision and constitutionality. Could stricter containment measures be applied? They could. Could measures be applied even to vaccinated animals? Both aspects, however, did not echo the government's communication narrative, which wanted to baptise the pandemic of uninvasive pandemics, and the latter could not be supported because of the financial impossibility of the Government to support the market. It is of great importance, in order to ultimately judge the constitutionality of the provision, to see how this measure is taken. Is it taken on the basis of the contagion of contagion? Is it taken on the basis of the self-protection of people for over sixty years? Is it taken on the grounds of avoiding burdens on the National Health System? Are the most contagious over sixty years? It is a good thing that we have to do something about it. In addition, to date, there has been deprivation of access to places and services such as kindergartens, children's stations, entertainment areas and even workplaces. Constitutional and national courts and the European Court of Human Rights have seen the compulsory vaccination of certain workers as a constitutional requirement. But the important thing is that the state's obligation to defend and protect the community ultimately enables it to restrict any freedom of the individual. So the question is whether it is unconstitutional to say that, in principle, this provision does not appear to be unconstitutional. Why? Because it defends the interests of the community as a whole, since vaccination is necessary for the protection of public health, the debt of social solidarity in accordance with Article 25 shall be maintained, the core of the right to the protection of health and the development of personality shall be preserved, given that the supreme good shall be the protection of life in accordance with Article 5. As far as personal freedom is concerned, which the Greek Solution raises, I think that personal freedom is limited by the rights of others, such as public health and the guarantee of public health. It could be a question of constitutionality in relation to Article 25 and the principle of proportionality, because it is not certain that this provision will ultimately serve its purpose and is likely to become inappropriate or incomprehensible in relation to the fact that for some citizens the 100 euro fine may seem unbearable, for others it does not cause them any problem with regard to their intention to be vaccinated or not. So the target is not achieved. There are concerns about the great ages, which according to Article 21 require special care and not the imposition of a fine, as this provision contains. It should have clear explanations and differentiations as to who cannot or cannot be vaccinated. It is also important that it is somewhat shaken, despite the fact that it is constitutional for the use of personal data for reasons of public health and public interest, the relationship between citizens' confidence and institutions following the processing of personal data. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say this. Despite the fact that on several points which have not been raised in the Greek Solution, it could be hypothetically said that they are moving to the limits of constitutionality, we do not believe that this objection of the Greek Solution can be accepted and this provision cannot be discussed as an anti-constitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u188	Thank you. Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. The request for unconstitutionality in general has become a pretext for the substance since the current governmental majority determines what is constitutional and what is not. So, for this particular proposal, we think that the government's choice, as it defines this amendment, is a political option that is part of its deadlock policy on individual responsibility, which has led to these tragic results in terms of the management of the pandemic. So the JRC is facing it as a political choice and with our negative vote we denounce it. The party group of the JRC will not participate in the vote on the request for unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u190	Thank you. Mr Grigoriadis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, there is no doubt that this provision by the government today is completely authoritative. There is also no doubt that it is completely unconstitutional. He understands this, a politician understands it, a doctor understands it, a person who is passive, and even a man who is a stone, Mr President. This is clearly an unconstitutional provision. We shall vote 'at present', however, as we believe that the anti-constitutional proposal of the Greek Solution has not been sufficiently substantiated. We also do not agree that these articles are the ones that have the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u192	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, before I place myself, I shall table legislative improvements. I am tabling them because they have to do with the amendment. It is with legislative improvement that the Minister for Health is able to extend to those who will become sixty years after the timeframe, because as the provision covered those who are now sixty years old, but obviously also in January, there will be people who will be sixty years of age. I'm putting down the law-abidings. [[At this point, the Minister for Health, Mr Athanasios Ploris, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 289]] The three amendments of the Ministry of Health and the amendment of the Ministry of Labour obviously fall within the bill. The debate today on the position of unconstitutionalism and, above all, on what we have heard from SYRIZA is very interesting. I come first of all to the Greek Solution. Mr. Villardo, I was here again when you had made the objection of unconstitutionality as a Member for compulsory vaccination in sanitary medicine and I had developed the argument. So don't listen to Mr. Tsipras in the inaccuracies he says. Evidently, issues are always born of constitutional balance and we are looking to see whether this constitutional balance is or is not stable. So what's going on? On the principle of whether there can be mandatory vaccinations, the Council of State before krone, by Decision 2387/2020 had resolved the question between the balance of individual choice and public health. And what did he say? They were parents who didn't want to inoculate their children and wanted to accept at the nursery the children who were not vaccinated. It was right that the Council of State was right to believe that the position of the children's station and municipality at the time when they were not accepted, because between the balance of individual choice and public health the Council of State accepts that vaccination is, in fact, an intervention which, in principle, such as any medical act, should be done with consensus, but when there are public health issues, precisely because this good for reasons of public health is limited, there can be restrictions. These have also been said in Italy, judgment 5/2018, and in France, judgment 67/2011, and in the European Court of Human Rights. You refer to these articles. Then what did we say? And that's the balance we're saying. The balance is that, obviously, if someone came and said that we were going to a massive compulsion, without certain conditions being met, there would be legal constitutional issues. So let's go see the charges. And there should be a document from the accusations. It was also decided, in the cases at first stage of temporary orders and suspensions, that some who work in structures, whether in hospitals or in vulnerable groups, should be vaccinated in order to provide this service and that there is no question of constitutionality. We are now coming to this measure. What are the scientific data that have been very much discussed? The scientific data are: currently, there are basically more than sixty-year-old groups at risk. We do not say that, because seven out of ten in the ICU are over sixty years old, the deaths of nine out of ten are over sixty years old and, more generally, the burden that exists in the National Health System comes from this group of people. No choice is made separately with each other's specialty. It is a criterion that concerns everyone as a whole. And here I will come to criticise SYRIZA's attitude, whatever SYRIZA's attitude today, really, is a stand that closes the eye to the invaders. Because it is not possible to say in an objection of unconstitutional'residence', i.e. I see some signs that he stands, but I am not so sure and I go to'residents'. There isn't. You may disagree politically and say that the measure is not right. If it is constitutional or unconstitutional, the measure must have a clear place in the Civic Opposition. So, what's going on here? We come here and say that these are the groups and the measure is absolutely proportionate, because it is an administrative fine, and there is no question of going to the equality that you are talking about in order to have proportionality because it is not a tax, and this is all going to the National Health System to strengthen the national health system which is borne by this category of people. I would remind you that the provisions on tobacco and alcohol which are overtaxed have been deemed to be tolerable in proportion to them, because it tells you that such behaviour creates a further burden. Here, then, the behaviour of those people who are not vaccinated, except that they are at risk to public health, as has been mentioned, except that they are at risk to themselves, in addition they are burdening the National Health System. It's the answer to what Mr. Katrinis says. It is all about this. It is also the burden of public health, because these people are basically the most at risk. So, overall, it is in terms of burdening public health. It is also the burden of the National Health System, because these charges are basically the charges that create all the burden that leads us from the first stage and into restrictive measures. So here we have to be clear. So there is no point in the way of the Constitution, as it had not been set up and judged in the course, and then when you again raised objections of unconstitutionality for sanitation. But what does the Qualified Opposition say today to see that there is no argument that has a flow, a start and an end? And that is why I will disagree once again with the Communist Party of Greece and say that it is nice to have these debates in Parliament, even if someone says that decisions are preconceived, which, of course, is offensive to a Member of Parliament. I didn't see Mrs. Anagnostopoulos, who said it was unconstitutional, coming in to see what she's going to do. He said that it is unconstitutional and said that he has a different position substantially from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. But what's going on? Because of these discussions, apart from being a House and taking them and going to court to hear what the legislator had in mind, we also show the contradictions of the parties. So SYRIZA has proposed something to us, that there should be compulsory military and police service. That's what he said. And to suggest it, you obviously consider it to be constitutionally intolerable, because you would not suggest something that would be constitutionally intolerable. So Mr Xanthos is now invoked by constitutional considerations for the more than sixty, which could be invoked by one's own army and police, and to a much lesser extent. We do not put a criterion on what one is doing and how one conducts himself. Why would anyone politically tell you that you are exposed, because as Tsipras says here, the person who controls the certificate must not be vaccinated? Won't someone who works at a restaurant, in fact, serves the time that someone else doesn't wear a mask, should he be infected? But there you don't want to take it. You guys want to politicize it, like you're creating a thing for us. So there, epidemiologically, the one who comes and serves you shouldn't be vaccinated if we go into your own logic? You should've said he's got to be vaccinated, because the cops have a test. And the police who are uninvasive have two tests, so something else you want to say, because this government for all those who are invasive and working, has two tests. So when you say police and military, you don't mean the two tests, because the two tests you've told me exist. So you mean something else about compulsoryity in these categories, which should only be in these categories, because you feel that you are creating a pressure supposed to be in the New Democracy. Those who work for the focus? Those who don't have the mask? That's where you come to say it's not mandatory? So you see that you are going selectively today, what Mr Blonde is doing, what is the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative doing? In order not to lose this audience, which, unfortunately, 'closes the eye', does not have the courage to stand up and say, politically, but no, there is no constitutionality. He said, first of all, it's a political issue, but we heard some constitutionalists. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, you were a government for four and a half years. Not allowed to a party, - that can be done by the Merra25 that said something we didn't understand, says, yes, we agree but it's not documented - [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You've been a government for four and a half years. Is it possible that you will not be able to place yourself here and say whether what we are bringing is or is not a constitutional issue, whether you disagree or do you agree? Is it possible that the party's position on Officerial Response is that for this provision, which will go to court tomorrow, people will not know, what was the position of the Officerial Response party? That's how scared you're getting a seat? While you yourself are in favour of, you say, compulsoryity, but with other measures, even arguing, saying yes, it is unconstitutional because it is 100 euros. Say something. You're not saying anything, you're actually saying that we're not convinced and you're going to the 'costs', and that's what it says. It exposes you, because it shows that you're still right in this position that you're and maybe it's very much that you're a Dedicated Opposition. Because the people who are listening here today are waiting for you to say what your position is. That's in line with the Constitution or not. Therefore, it is a manifestation that there is no issue of constitutionality, that has been judged by a number of judgments of both the Greek courts and European courts and all the courts, and what today showed here that it is "anti-constitutional", is the attitude of an officer of opposition, which at this juncture, in order to "close the eye" to the anti-consumers, cannot be placed and said yes, compulsoryity as it comes is not contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure on the issue of unconstitutionalism has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition to unconstitutionalism, please rise. [[Receiving the proposal]] Obviously, the required number of Members from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House did not rise. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. The parliamentary representative of Mera25, Mr Claus Gregoriadis, has requested the floor. Come on, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u195	Do I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u196	You're welcome, Mr. Gregoriadis. And it will be followed by Mr. Prison.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, although you have, as you are accustomed to it, today for three conspicuous hours, and as soon as your usual cockfighting has ended, you have risen up and left for years - I am sorry for the expression, but this House is, in my opinion, a disgrace - I will speak to you, Mr Mitsotakis, as if you were a normal Prime Minister of the country and not a Prime Minister - an anonymous company that wants to break down the country. I'll speak to you in a few words, Mr. Mitsotakis, as if you were here. I will speak to you, speaking at the same time to the Greek people who from somewhere there listen to us and I will tell you, Mr Mitsotakis, that yesterday you confessed that you were unable to convince the Greek citizens who just two and a half years ago trusted you with a huge percentage and made you Prime Minister of the country. Yesterday, you confessed, Prime Minister, you confessed, Mr Mitsotakis. How else could the announcement of financial fines be explained to the inconveniences of this country, Mr President? How could it be justified otherwise, without having invested fundamentally in a very serious information campaign, for example, at least your advertising campaign in favour of "Mixed House", i.e., you remember it - for the benefits of vaccination? Do you really believe in the New Democracy, does any of you think that the battle against pandemic will be won without the state of Greece gaining the confidence of its citizens? It won't be won. For the truth, Mr Mitsotakis, I am reading a statement to you - others have read it, and others have insinuated it - but I am going to dwell on it. The important thing is the days that separate us from this statement and, unfortunately, it is for you, Mr Mitsotakis, twelve. It is what the scriptures say 'before you speak, three...'. The Twelve therefore separate us from your phrase 'incitement and encouragement have greater power'. That is what you said, Mr Mitsotakis, twelve days after the general obliteration of compulsory duties. Twelve days later, in the eleventh proclamation of the "government" - again in import - compulsory vaccination for over sixty, or a fine of EUR 100 per month in the head. That's all. The same Prime Minister, twelve days ago, said: "We are hitting on a wall of reaction to the inconveniences, and the greater the requirement that we establish the greater the reaction." Well, Mr. Mitsotakis, what are you? Don't you have any brains to understand that what you put in place yesterday will make them the uninvasive? And you said here a lot of nice, many interesting things, but tell us first of all, before I tell you the interests you said, Mr Mitsotakis, how, how you intend to gain this famous trust of Greek citizens. In your hypocrisy? Why other than hypocrisy is the statement that fines will allegedly be added to the strengthening of the National Health System? Who? You, Mr. Mitsotakis? Really? Do you, Mr. Flouris, who are his Minister, think your Prime Minister is really being cut off to strengthen the health system? Why, if it is cut, then why did it, in the middle of a hundred deaths a day, reduce the health budget for the next year by EUR 800 million and, in particular, by EUR 279 million, almost EUR 300 million, for hospitals and primary health care, where the victims of COVID go? You're not bakein' anyone. You cannot convince anyone, Mr Mitsotakis, that it is not hypocrisy that these fines will go to strengthen the national health system. Or do you think, Mr. Mitsotakis, that you will gain the confidence of the reluctant citizens with a class- targeted hunger? For, of course, you may have escaped as you live in a glass of heaven where you live. But if for your rich invasive friends, because yes, there are such educated and rich friends who don't go to be vaccinated, they are pasatebos - the French pass temps comes the word - over time as they eat their seeds 100 euros, because they give them a tip to bars - restaurants going for a couple of poor pensioners who get 400 euros and look out of the month, they are a direct threat to the possibility of survival next month. Do you think, Mr Mitsotakis, that with the threat of hunger you will make them accept scientific advice? You don't understand that dragging people into hunger is so different from science that they'll turn their backs on science those who are forced to starve to listen to science. You don't understand it, and it's obvious. We didn't have much more expectations. Mr Mitsotakis, humanity is living with an agony, the anguish of the 'Omicon' mutation, or anyone else who wanted to change the COVID -19. And I answer by representing Yanis Varoufakis, the secretary of my party to the misery you said a few hours ago here, and misery is not because you said it, misery is because you dare repeat them in full knowledge that you lie at the time we lose ninety to ten fellow people a day. So I say to you, "Dear" Mr Mitsotakis, that at the time that humanity lives under the threat of mutation - and I answer here to the objections that we, the opposition, have said nothing, we close our eyes to the anti-invaders - and I remind you, Mr. Plearis, that your predecessor, Mr. Kikilis, went down and imitated our hands, we have given you our support without any party wing without any thoughts of voting, February, March, April and half of May until you start doing what the people say. Until then we gave you our full support against the loss of votes that this meant to us. He has no right to move us his anonymous company hand, Mr. Mitsotakis. So I tell you, Samaris, that you have ever heard us when we are wrong to tell you at the beginning of the pandemic, to invite you as a Mera25, as a Yiannis Varoufakis to set up - since last March - the necessary pandemic network of mass centres, which will then be dowry to the National Health System, which you have dug out after twelve memorandum years. You didn't. They insisted, Mr President, that they go blindly. Do you realize now, at least, that if the vaccines, which are still working fortunately, stop a subsequent or subsequent mutation of the virus working, your inactivity will return mathematically where we were in March 2020? Would you like to congratulate you on that? Finally, Mr Mitsotakis, with classic and toxic fines to our feared fellow humans, our trust, Mr Mitsotakis, is not won. You've proved it to us and to yourself for a year and a half. Without that trust, Mr. Mitsotakis, we will lose the battle with the pandemic of all of us. And yesterday, with your announcement, while the country is faced with a new wave of deaths, you once again reaffirmed your reconciliation with inappropriateness, failure and authoritarianism. We have told you in other words, Mr Plouris, and our language has haired us to say it, we are tired of saying it now, people who are not vaccinated most of them are neither sprayed nor negative nor imagine conspiracy theories. To their vastly larger percentage according to all global measurements are people who doubt and the treacherous fear. Do you know why they're scared? Because they miss scientific information. Do you know what we've been telling you a year now? We say the ESS that you have tried to call one - one of these people and a doctor who will show them their file and think: "Ba, are they thinking about me?" That's what he'll think, because you've never thought about him. So when the doctor presents his file to him and tells him: I have seen your case personally, and I personally guarantee that I am a doctor who is a scientist that with your file and your history you are not in danger of anything," the man has another air to go to do, because a doctor who looked at him in his eyes and who saw his case individually told him. You didn't do it a year. Like you did not do the vaccination centres we have been asking for a year ago. I remind you of the punctual memory - I like that expression and I often say it, I have to cut it off - test you have done. Do you know how much it was at first? Five hundred, three hundred. You made fun of society, not you, your predecessor, who wasn't even Mr. Kilias's fault. Mr. Mitsotakis is always behind all this. You fooled society with a thousand tests a day when three universities screamed at you by mail, which they sent to us afterwards, we give you our know-how, we can do thousands a day. When the National Sailing Commission told you we're giving you our means, we can make thousands of vaccines a day, you've been tweaking on others then. I have listened to Mr Mitsotakis, Mr President, with great attention, although this is becoming more and more laboring, as the quote of such coarse lies runs counter to every sense of dignity I hide within me, and I am being hampered by, to the extent that it comes to me crying when someone has been mocking so long and in such a way the Greek people. I'm getting tired, I'm getting out of my clothes, Mr. President. Mr. Mitsotakis said that he prefers the word required by the word compulsory. Really? That reminds us of the returnees from the already returnees. He said: 'I am afraid I am strict, but I will soon prove myself to be healthyly correct'. Really, Mr. Mitsotakis? Really, will you soon prove yourself healthly correct? How, Mr. Mitsotakis? How? Is it because he hasn't hired a permanent doctor to the U.S. after nearly eighteen thousand dead? Is it because you're pretending to legalize them later? Maybe because the intensives aren't enough? You know Mr. Kelecidis, with whom I grew up with him, even though I was never Olympiacos, I grew up with him, he cheers at the moment, and we all wish that man would survive, because he was hospitalized two days in a common bed. This isn't the best. It really isn't the best. How, then, will you prove to be healthly correct? I'll tell you how you'll turn out to be healthly right. 'Today, 30-7-2020, the Greek Parliament' - it is important for those who hear from us, Mr President - to 'take up their greatest social offer'. Mr Tasoulos said this a year ago, less, just before the signing of the convention, not to eat you the year, "five beds were donated by us Greek MPs in the fight against COVID". Do you know what the costs were for the fifty beds we donated according to Parliament's figures? They had a cost of 8 million. You know, every single one is 160,000 euros. Mr President, if I may say so, do you know what it means that, with 8 million, we gave the 50 MEP ready to operate? It means to very simply Greek - and that's where my hypocrisy raises the blood in the forehead - that with 80 million once you're making five hundred ICUs. And does it mean that with the 665 million donated by Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A., four parasitic friends of hers only in the first half of this year, namely "AEGEAN", to "AEGEAN", in particular, to "FRAPORT" which is your friend with the airport fillets, to the concessionaires of the tolls - who are others? Mr. Bobolas. Who remembers Mr. Bobola? - with Mr Bobola and the parent company, which is an American multinational, ENERGEAN OIL. To these four companies you gave 665 million euros as a reckless, because their jobs did not go well in the first half of this year. So I'm telling you, and I'm looking at you all in the eyes that with the same money - I didn't say not to give them there, let's give them some - if you give them to the ESS, Mr President, more than four and a half thousand IDs in their area. Mr. Kelecidis would have a better chance, as would any other Kelecidis. In any case, I will not go far enough, Mr President, only say the following. Mr. Mitsotakis said we're coming to this step because we've exhausted all the other stages. Really? Did you really run out of all the other stages? With the Pecha List? On the Pecha list, did you run out of the other stadiums? Fines? Since the first day we have had fines. Nationally split? By the fact that you've been demonizing all the young people in squares for a year? Then you demonized the teachers, then you demonized the doctors who didn't want to be vaccinated, then you demonized, demonized, and demonized! Aren't you bored of demonizing? It all leads to national division. It's not the last step. It's your first and last step. So, no fines for a cop, I don't suppose you'll shoot. Is that right? I'm guessing there's an exception for the officers of the ELAS. I don't believe that over 60 years of age who are invasive to be subject to the rule of the rest of the plebiscite? I don't think so. You will lose your electoral base. He also dared to speak of an appeal to the congregation. Who? The Prime Minister who proved to be the Conservative of the Archbishop, the late one of Jerony, who did what the aggregated state did not do, said: “No uninvasive in the churches.” You were afraid of the loss of votes. Finally, Mr President, said the dear Mr Mitsotakis: "I feel that I am doing my duty and I have a quiet conscience." Congratulations! Good for you to have a quiet conscience. Before I close, I will remind everyone that Mr. Varoufakis seems to have the inherited gift and dared to predict that misery can reach this point. On 30 September, therefore, three months before it had foreseen - and I read to you: 'You will also divide society and you will not increase the amount of vaccination in particular. I urge you never to do that." What was "the like"? That when you see the dark, you are so irrational, so authoritarian and so hiddenly fascist, that you will impose a fine of 100 euros on our fellow humans. Do everything we tell you that you must not do and you do nothing than we have all been telling you for years that you have to. Mr President, in order to lighten the atmosphere, which is heavy and will be all too heavy as we lose a hundred people a day, with the responsibility of the governing party directly, because it has not taken a doctor and has been reducing for two consecutive years, in the middle of a coronary, the funds for health. Mr. Florie, I understand you. How can you support the ESS when you have a mandate to slander it to privatize it? You won't support it. Will you let it desolate and not die and thirty thousand Greeks? Tracks to be done! So I close, Mr President, to lighten the climate by addressing my youngest Mr Mitsotakis, which is why I will speak to him: dear Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, you have forced us, you have forced us, but you have not finally told us how much you have charged us. I'll answer for the Prime Minister. He charged us with 42,000,000,000,000 from the Financial Stability Fund, within just two years and 21,000,000,000 from excellent guarantees for red loans, your wonderful plan 'HRAKLIS', which was signed, even though Mr Stavros refuses to accept, for a month in our national public debt, which has been heading for half a trillion. Be well, say hello to your Prime Minister. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u198	The reason for this is that Mr Practicalis from New Democracy has been given the floor for seven minutes. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the current government continues with methodicity and abstract coolness, the multi-fronted attempt to manage the health crisis, makes decisions and leaves the opposition with a strong absence. We support the National Health System and the country's health units, those on the front line of battle against the invisible enemy. In this effort, this draft law also contributes to ensuring transparency, stability and efficiency in the health supplies process. The role of the National Central Health Procurement Authority in ensuring supplies of pharmaceutical goods and related services is important in serving a large number of health structures. This legislative initiative solves definitive weaknesses and problems by establishing a system of supplying a flexible, direct, fair and effective supply system, ensuring economicly better agreements for high-quality products and at low prices. The existing central authority is transformed by a legal person governed by private law. The new form and the revised possibilities acquired by the body give new potential to the health supply system. A dynamic that is interlinked with the need for greater flexibility through digital monitoring of the procurement process. A reliable internal product movement system is being established between health structures. A mechanism for monitoring consumption, consumption and invoicing of the entire supply cycle of health products and services is hereby established, of course with regard to organisation and operation, as well as to innovation, with regard to the strategic and operational design of central health supplies and with regard to the consolidation of the principles of good administration and efficient management, a crystal management management, which is deterrent to corruption and dirty money laundering. In recent years, the Internal Affairs Service and the competent prosecutors have had a major impact on the fight against corruption. However, by simply putting my experience and knowledge into practice, I think there is room for further tightening up the framework in order to tackle the phenomenon radically. The Agency's rules of operation will certainly be a model of transparency and legality with security aspects ensuring good management of public resources and which will also be a guide to the functioning of other possible state agencies, in order that those involved in the management of economic resources and who exercise power to be under constant and effective supervision by the competent authorities, preventing the execution, possible physically, of economic crimes. At the same time, it ensures the possibility of cooperation with scientists, skilled staff and other bodies in order to achieve its objectives. The National Central Authority acquires a greater financial soundness. A larger range of sources of economic revenue are foreseen beyond the State budget, such as its funding from the ESRB, the Recovery and Resilience Fund and the Ministry of Health's Public Investment Programme. In order to meet its demanding role, the body is strengthened by additional staff and capacity and the creation of a General Manager post, while important for the specialisation of its individual needs and choices in supplies is the setting up of five specialised committees, which will have a helpful role to play in the management board and its members, which, for the first time, is provided for. Ladies and gentlemen, in this difficult period of public health, the timely delivery of suitable quality health material is crucial for the proper functioning of health structures throughout the country, but also for the overall savings of resources, i.e. state money that can be used at other needs. This law achieves a transition towards a health procurement system, of course with a view to transparency, efficiency, savings of resources and increased quality in the interests of public health. Unfortunately, in this war, as it has shown, today, with an unknown enemy, with so many human losses, with so much pain and with so much trouble and with so many billions of costs, there is no national front. That is why I regret, but I am voting in favour of this law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u200	Now Mr. Haritou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, after you have failed the population's vaccination coverage, after we dropped a white towel, you are now telling us that all the means of persuasiveness have been exhausted and that you are taking measures to effectively punish the invasive over sixty people. Ladies and gentlemen, you have not proposed any obligation for everyone, since those who have the financial potential can avoid it. Unfortunately, gentlemen, there is a very serious risk of strengthening the overall climate of anti-infection. But instead of strengthening the persuasive initiatives to save lives, instead of even adopting positive measures to vaccinate these age groups, you are, unfortunately, making progress in punishing measures which will lead to the opposite of the desired results. At a time when the duplication of the successive waves of the pandemic has led the public health system to have exceeded its limits on your own political responsibility, since you have not taken care of it all the time, the ITH unit of gentlemen non-COVID at the Komotini Hospital for the entire region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace operates marginally with degraded essential health services despite the honest efforts of health care, while other clinics, such as Urological, have downrooted rolls. Twenty days ago, she was the Deputy Minister. You know it, but it's how the Prime Minister doesn't know it. At a time when health workers on the front line are struggling after almost two years of continuous exhausting work. When the majority of people in need of health services and although hospitals have become only COVID units, nonetheless patients are expecting cartoons, whether in need or because they trust the public health system. Hundreds of surgery for other diseases are waiting at the Komotini Hospital, when two and all interventions are made this week. You gentlemen come in these circumstances, with the arrangements we are discussing today in the bill, in a provocative way to tell everyone that you do not actually trust the public procurement body. It is confirmed that your concern is not how you will strengthen public interest bodies but how you open the way to infiltrate private interests, how you do at the end of business, opening windows to help your own children. This target is mainly served by the critical setting you enter to change the character of the EMS. While you recognise that there is a need for this body, today you tell us that it is not an effective way of working, when you are masters for two and a half years now - not by accident - you have not made a central contest for the supply of personal protective equipment through the EMS. However, you have made all supplies of materials by way of derogation from the existing legislation. You put the supply management agency in the refrigerator, and now you have discovered that it is his fault that it is public law. As much as you are trying to hide it, you want back procedures for non-transparent contracts with private interests, to bring back the rodents that have been plunging the costs of procurement into the public health system, to legalise through the body that you did before derogating from the existing legislation. You want, as managers in the EKPH, well-paid managers from the private sector operating as a transporter with pharmaceuticals or other companies, which also allows for the regulations of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not surprised by your choices. The day after you came to the government the first act you have just taken was to change a contract signed by the public and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation in 2018 by the government of SYRIZA for the new Komotini Hospital. Change it to what point? Where your idealism coincides with the interests you serve, you can transform the character of the new Komotini Hospital into private law. It doesn't sweat your ears, despite the reactions of health workers, despite the objections of local society and its institutions. As long as you serve the interests you are intended for. Didn't you do the same by abolishing the employment contracts established by the SYRIZA government in cleanliness, feeding, saving, prompting hospitals to proceed to contractive contracts, despite the fact that they cause economic bleeding in hospitals? That's your policy. You are only interested in supporting and strengthening the role of economic interests within the public health system. We cannot, then, consent to the wrong choices that you make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Chrysomalis from New Democracy has the floor, and then we'll continue online.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while I have been listening to the debate all day, I would have expected a very serious issue which is also the issue of the compulsory requirement for vaccinations, but also the Ministry of Health's own draft law in its main part, to hear a serious debate with arguments and a debate that would give due consideration to those who are listening to us, because it is quite a serious matter. Instead, the Opposition, especially the Civic Opposition, continues its well-known tactical, general criticisms, sometimes exaggerate, with no substance, no argument and no proposal. Starting first from the bill - and then I will come to the story of compulsory vaccination for the sixty and more - the Civic Opposition makes the following criticism: You come to remind us and say that you introduced the Central Health Procurement Authority, that it was your creation, and we must recognize it. Yes, sir. You admit, however, you have no willingness to tell the truth that you have created a body which has not been able to serve effectively the public interest in health supplies, a body that is so dysfunctional and slow that it takes four to five years to bring about a contract in the health sector, a body which, instead of finally zeroing, has led to an increase in direct awards to supplies from hospitals in order to cover material needs within the necessary period. We have not seen you willing to admit that you have done nothing to facilitate the EMS in its role, that you have done nothing to achieve central supplies of low-price material for all health operators in the interests of the citizens and the state budget clearly. Instead, you are coming again today to give the fight for everything that does not change the EACH - you say - from a legal person governed by public law to a private person, as if it were something terrible. You're accusing us of ideoscopy when you're ideologically seeing this change as something terrible. Let us end with the present dilemmas, ladies and gentlemen, of the SYRIZA and tell the reality as it stands. The effectiveness and publicity of a body shall not be judged by its character if it is a legal person governed by public or private law. Remember the ETA. Has the character of the ETA changed? Has its effectiveness been reduced by transforming it into a legal person governed by private law? On the contrary. It's achieved better results. On the contrary, with the current legislative initiative of the Ministry of Health, EAFRD has acquired the key character it should have since the beginning of its adoption. It acquires all those tools and the flexibility it needs to be able to serve quickly, transparently and economically in the socially critical area of health supplies, so that it finally stops the catastrophe of direct awards and the ex post legislative legitimacy of these costs. How many times did you do it as a government? Balls. The Ministry of Health therefore intervenes decisively in the supply of hospital materials, creating an effective body that will manage effectively through negotiation and central competitive procedures the whole of sanitary supplies at speed and lower costs, offering quality materials and services to all health units in the country. Therefore, instead of agreeing on this, we are critical of the possibility offered to EIOPA through the draft law to be able to implement ESDP projects and the Recovery Fund, i.e. gaining access to such important sources of funding. But that is the essence, ladies and gentlemen, because in the end, do not just look at the health ministry's budget. See from the budgets of the other Ministries how much money is directed to the health sector to upgrade all health services. That is the essence of both with such sources of funding and with the access of the EMS to them we will achieve this. Finally, the bill brings about significant changes in both the management of claw back with the distribution by class of medicine and the right to access uninsured drugs, which was given by ministerial decision in 2014, do not forget this. We are now coming to reinstate prescribing to uninsured people only in public health structures with a natural presence to check the doubling of expenditure by prescribing also by private doctors. No uninsured loser loses his access, simply stops the excessive burden of the EEAS by prescribing to people who are not entitled to them. That is right, Minister, but it would be fairer if the insurers had exactly the same involvement as the insured. It would be fairer for everyone. And I invite you to consider this, because there won't be any incentive to look for AMKAs uninsured to write drugs. Maybe we should dare that soon. Finally, reintroduce the status of participating also for negotiated medicines, while joining the electronics and antiretroviral medicines, a consistent request for the association of HIV patients. So we continue with substantial moves to strengthen the health sector in the country and, at the same time, to manage the coronary pandemic methodically and effectively. It appeared in the previous conversation. No one's happy about the mandatory sixty or more. But she had to. These figures show from the hospitals. No one is happy that this requirement is imposed. No obligation does make us happy, especially if you like, to us who do not have that logic of totalitarianism, either from the very right or from the very left. But we have admitted that we have reached a 70% vaccination rate. But the health system at the moment is having vibrations. And the Prime Minister clearly said: The immunity wall, as the 70% infections committee intended, is not valid, so vaccination must be increased and that is what we are going to achieve at the moment with this measure. Ladies and gentlemen, I would expect the opposition to be more serious. You know, in the conversation it seemed clear. Velopoulos, Paulakis, the two sides of the same coin. They both mocked the ears of the anembolics. But we will all be judged when the election time comes. In closing, and with your tolerance, Mr President, I would even ask you to vote on the amendments, especially for the exceptional financial support for vulnerable pensioners, disabled people and uninsured over-ages for December. You have not done this once, but it is never too late to show that you are voting on an economic measure that will alleviate our most vulnerable fellow citizens. We continue to act responsibly and you will be judged for the opposition you are making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u204	Mr Baran Bourhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, once again the government, unable to deal with the increased health needs of citizens, and not only, has brought a bill to the debate in a pretext, seeking time to flow for it directly and painlessly in the middle of a pandemic. Honestly, what I have to say is that you are looking at the tree and you are losing the forest, as this bill is inferior to the circumstances of the needs and the present state of public health that, in fact, is in a stagger. Your legislative initiative solves no problems, since for two and a half years all hospitals have been provided by themselves without tenders and by direct awards, which you have made a norm throughout the public administration. And you come here today and you are wasting your powers by bringing to the vote more important issues in the middle of major health problems. But it is known that you like such practices. It is clear, then, that the government once again through the cloak of this bill, instead of having the shield of health systems and hospitals that blow away from the left, is interested in changing the legal status of the Procurement Committee, not in order to effectively solve the problems with supplies, but for its own beneficial reasons and the concept was understood. We are experiencing unprecedented situations with piles of permeated people and tragic numerical losses, as the coronary situation has been exceded off limits and health resistance. It is typical of how IF beds are set without the necessary qualified staff. After all, we are at the worst time for the ESS, which is weakened, subordinated, and also for doctors who are desperately trying to meet the requirements of the system and who, all the time of the pandemic, are inextricably on the front line of the struggle to deal with the pandemic. This fact has often been recognized by the government in words. In practice, however, it has so far not shown itself prepared to recognise it, as it has not taken any decision in the direction of practical support for their fair demands. But at this point I would like to make a small reference to my prefecture, where the situation is out of hand despite all the efforts we are making on the part of each of us. However, you have suspended the operation of rural hospitals, as well as the deterioration of the Abdiras Health Center, which serves hundreds of our fellow citizens every day. The decision to reduce the health centres of the 4th OSH does not impair the fact that the exceptions which have arisen have been made. Visits by government officials shall not be sufficient to resolve problems when they are accompanied by discriminatory decisions. Especially in the midst of the pandemic that plagues our prefecture and eastern Macedonia - Thrace is extremely unreasonable to lower primary health care. We have fought for public health, for the ESS, which bears the PASOK seal, with unprecedented services for all citizens on an equal footing. But all this effort was undermined in the period of governance of the country by the New Democracy by the shrinking of the welfare state, waste, corruption and huge debts. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] For all these reasons, I conclude that this draft law does not respond to the problems of public health. It's totally unequivocal, while we're the country with most deaths every day because of the coronary. We, as a Change Movement, expect from you self-criticist real rather than sterile politics. There is no more time to lose, no more luxuries for big words without a reflection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u206	Mr Thraniotis of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much, Mr President. It was an interesting debate today on the bill concerning the National Central Health Procurement Authority. I intended and intended to talk about a number of issues, but the debate at Heads of State or Government raised many issues. However, more than that, Mr Mitsotakis has highlighted the impasse and discomfort of dealing with the pandemic which he has already failed, which is charged exclusively. I shall refer to the situation in Lassithi and its vaccination. It's a county located among the first in vaccination rates in our country. This is solely due to the efforts of the workers. Workers who haven't just reached their limits, but they've been overtaken. The Saturday that passed us on the 27th of the month I went to the Hospital of Saint Nicholas to make the third dose of the vaccination. I have been given the opportunity to note closely the situation in which the staff are present. Nurse crying literally and complaining to the newspaper doctor "I can't take it anymore, only two hours I'm gone and I'm back. Mr. Thrace, do something. This is no longer the case." Obviously it is not the first but, unfortunately, neither the last incident as local communities and local media describe many such incidents. I would like to address Mr Ploris, the Minister, and say to him that he knows from a post of the local newspaper personally delivered on 14 November - a post on 12 November - at the Pan-Hellenic Conference of Medical Associations, by the President of the Lassithi Medical Association, where he describes the tragic situation in hospitals in the prefecture. Neither a cardiologist nor an orthopaedic or radiologist existed in the hospital where a family was transported with a car accident and had to be transported to Heraklion. It concludes the post: "This is the situation at the Hospital of Agios Nikolaos one afternoon daily." I would add that it concerns the central hospital in the county, which is addressed to seventy-five thousand people, and some are within a hundred kilometres. The second post in the same newspaper by the director of the intensive care unit reports that medical staff have been exhausted while the unit’s medical staff are in a situation of suicide, working on most shifts rather than shifts, morning - afternoon. The wrong vaccination of a citizen with a fivefold vaccine dose is attributed precisely to these exhaustive hours. Here, there is no need to point out the announcement of the exceptional allowance for the five hundred euros by the Prime Minister if it relates to an allowance or if it relates to part of the work offered by the workers with exhausting hours. I would now like to refer to a second important event which also has to do with vaccination, which concerns the vaccination of the world population itself, and is becoming even more opportune with the occurrence of the 'Omicon' mutation. It spreads rapidly, detects everywhere and creates concerns. A joint finding that universal vaccination is a matter of urgency. There are countries with a low rate of vaccination because they cannot afford to cope with it. It is also an encouragement of the World Health Organisation to vacate these countries. The European Parliament a few days ago voted in favour of the lifting of the patent production of vaccines. It is something Mr Mitsotakis has been ironic since April when Mr Tsipras raised the matter. He said: 'Do not abolish the patent with a law and an act'. This amendment was voted for by thirty-thirty-three votes in favour and three hundred-eight-eight-to-eight. Let us note, after all, that the Socialist, Greens, the Centre and the Left have voted in favour of the lifting of the patent. The European People's Party and the extreme right voted against the lifting of the patent. Among those who voted 'in' were the MEPs of the New Democracy. Why, Mr Minister, did they not vote for the lifting of the patent, which means an accessible vaccine, and for those countries which are unable to obtain it and which have a low rate of vaccination? Is it not an undermining of the world's population's vaccination effort and, by extension, the countries? So why did the New Democracy MEPs not vote? Let me tell you, Minister. Because for you, the health of the citizens is not important. They promote the interests of companies, the interests of the pharmaceutical industry. This, unfortunately, is the situation in the country and does not change what lies the Prime Minister points out. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr. Thraniotis. I'll make one, say an irregularity. Mr Marcos, rapporteur of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance has an obligation and wants to speak now. The Minister who had the floor agreed. I have an obligation to ask the parliamentary representatives if there is a problem. Well, that's fine. Mr Constantine Marcou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Mr President. I thank the Minister and my colleagues for this facilitation. I would like to start with the amendments. With regard to Amendment No 1153 and specific number 168 to which the issue at issue has been discussed all day long, we are 'against'. I think he's exhausted enough, and I think it's a surplus to expand more. The political leaders have also spoken. I just have two findings. Let us make a case of work that it is very right that this punishing provision comes with the fine in order to protect the social group. But he who has or does not have, but chooses to pay the hundred will not participate in this protection. So there is a problem of equality and effectiveness, if you want, beyond what reactions it will create. And I come, Minister, to something else because, in the case of unconstitutionalism or not, you have actually lifted the tone, I would say, in violation of the proportionality that was required in your tension, given that on 29-10-2021 you – and you – declared the legal - "by invoking the constitutional order where, in fact, there is the risk of public health", we mean the compulsory 'and not the risk of individual health." And you're referring to the sanitary. I mean, you had two yards and two stations. Then you thought there was an issue of unconstitutionality, if it extends to individual choice, and now you don't think it exists. This, in fact, raises a question about the consistency of your assessments. In Amendment No 1150 on the strengthening of vulnerable groups, we say yes, we are in favour. In Amendment No 1151/166, which refers to the prescribing of uninsured persons, we will state'representations'. And I'll explain why. We have two very positive provisions that have been put in the committees and we are defending them. They're the ones you've taken - and good for you - for the HIV patients. We agree. But, Minister, I call you with a technocratic appeal if you would like to encourage them to go to public hospitals at the moment to prescribe their medicines, it is not just their suffering. Currently, public hospitals are narrowing or suffering. Imagine the load of prescribing uninsured. And in that sense, despite the positive provisions on HIV, we are saying'represents'. Finally, Amendment No 1152 on the extension of fixed-term contracts and of doctors' contracts and so on, we shall vote yes, but without prejudice, Minister, that the extension should be longer. We cannot have this procedure every three months. Does anyone think that in March 2022 we will not need an enhanced health system? Now I come to two more issues. It has been heard by the majority speakers, not by her rapporteur, that we are supposedly underestimating the protection and protection provided by the doctors of the ERC when we say that they cannot cope with the burden, and that there is a matter, in the end, why this mortality exists. You know the doctors themselves are saying that. In the decision of the doctors of the "Saint Andreas" that I read to you in my first speech, they say that people without appropriate expertise, doctors without appropriate expertise and with completely other educational content in their course, are asked to treat patients with a coronary. This is a crime and should be taken into account. Every doctor but not only, and every rational person understands that. We have a situation that says we have a hundred and fifty tubed out. They reported these numbers a little while ago. Minister, why don't you choose the path of honesty and truth? You're telling half the truth, and that's worse than lying. Say that this is death outside of the ICM, that's the mortality within ICM. Why don't you give us these incidents, these numbers, these data? And I'm coming now by closing up to S.H.I.E.L.D. We have discussed this, in detail, now that the debate is over. But I noticed that all the speakers of the Complex came by apparently taking the card from the non paper and saying "Five years the EACH didn't do anything." For a seat, the EAFRD FEC was published May 2017. In July 2019, SYRIZA left the government. Are these five years to be able to declare that experience is negative? And as the former Minister, Mr Polakis, in his speech, has handled procedures and projects of about 110 million euros over this two-year period. So your argument is unstable. Your priorities which we have referred to in the protagonists and our speakers remain. And in that sense we are against your bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u210	Thank you too, Mr Marcus, and thank you very much for being a gentleman. You said you wouldn't be long. You were right on time. I will give the Minister the floor and then we will go to the Parliamentary Representatives first with Mr Katrin. Mr. Xanthos will then speak, then Mr. Karathanasopoulos and then Mrs. Arabatzi. The Minister for Health, Mr Athanasios Plearis, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Today, of course, most of the debate - and it was reasonable - was moved to the debate on the new measures announced by the Prime Minister yesterday and we are voting today on the requirement of over sixty in order to increase the presence and participation of vaccinations. And I will begin with - because it has been said again - whether there was or was not a question of the individual choice that Mr Marcus has mentioned. But here again, it's not just a matter of individual choice, it's public health too. Because these groups are a burden to the National Health System. So it is again the public health criterion and it is absolutely proportionate. I will not go further on this because we have discussed this in detail beyond the discussions of the Heads of State or Government and in the anti-constitutional part. At the same time, there is - and because we are starting with measures - a second measure which is very important. Next week a free self - test will be given throughout the population. And it is very important that everyone at this point is helping to make it as many people as possible and vaccinated and invasive. It's actually going to be available a week. We'll make the announcements tomorrow accurately. We do so in order to be able to find a number of cases that will exist. With the self-restriction and quarantine that these people will have and they will be able to have Christmas - because the process will be completed after ten to fifteen days - but there will be a restriction limiting transmission. We say this at a time when, in the last ten days, it really seems every day that the incidents analogous to a week are less, which makes us optimistic that we may have a pandemic level. Again, there was talk - and to put some things in place with reference to the National Health System - with those who are intubated inside, outside the ICM, about what has been done in intensive therapy beds. Let's start and say first of all the numbers we'll repeat all the time. Of the five hundred and fifty-seven ICU beds, now is a thousand three hundred. SYRIZA had made two thousand seven hundred doctors’ notices in four and a half years and two thousand eight hundred New Democracy did two thousand sixty - nine fellow doctors, two thousand permanent doctors, twelve thousand other subsidiary staff. Those are the numbers. On the other hand, there is the pressure of pandemic. And especially the fourth wave - at least we have to agree - is the most pressing one because there are no lockdown measures and restrictions, and on the one hand the National Health System, as it operated with all the diseases that exist, and on the other hand pandemic exists. Let's close the CFD chapter. Well, let's say it again for the private sector IDs. I've heard here and the Chief of Officer's Response, Mr. Tsipras, say so. All private sector meth beds are at the disposal of the EMCDDA. When there is no public system, automatically an announcement is being made and at the moment over two hundred of our fellow citizens from the ESS are being hospitalized in private-sector IT beds. Of course these ICMs concern non-COVID cases, precisely because in a ICM they cannot be both COVID and non-COVID incidents. And obviously there are other patients in these beds who had gone to private clinics, and we can't get them out of a reasonable punishment some people imagine. With regard to single beds, in Thessaloniki two hundred COVID beds have been provided by the private sector and one hundred and eighty non COVID. You mentioned very much in the decision to suspend surgery where necessary and the 'where necessary' concerns specific areas, and the administrations themselves consider that there are and have been made available to the public system non COVID beds, because in these beds the transport of patients and occupants is done without charge for the patient. In Thessaloniki we have two hundred and fifty single beds, in the private sector, for COVID incidents and about a hundred and fifty for non COVID. A similar agreement exists for Athens, if there is more pressure, as well as anywhere else there is a reliable private sector in order to be able to treat either CoVID incidents or take serious surgery, where there may be a need for surgery. And because it was said again and I heard it here mention the Hippocrates of Thessaloniki, the surgery that did not take place that day in the private sector. Where we had the subject of doctors, they were moving around. From 1stPeriod of Athens has been transferred to Thessaloniki and is there. There are no doctors, as it showed up, without the Chief of Officership here knowing. Most of the invitations are people who are already serving in the system or who are applying only for a particular location of a hospital that is attractive, they are people who may be subsidiary, so they are in the system. Whether or not they should have been permanent is another criticism you can make, but it is not related to whether they are currently in the system and assist and assist in the system. So where we had a problem, we also went to private doctors’ orders. There is no fellow citizen who does not accept the care that exists. Let's get this over with, too. Apart from the fact that the figures you are saying are not accurate, what you have heard today, yes, is intubated and people outside the ICU are intubated in accordance with the terms laid down in the international protocols, are essentially in surgical beds, in MATH beds or in simple beds that are specific and have all technical support and the presence of technical staff and respirators. That logic of roughly pierced people does not exist. All our fellow citizens take care of an RU which is under pressure. You're saying there's been anticipation in ITH beds. Let an ex-health minister come here and say that without his term of office, without pandemic, there were no waiting in IF beds. What did that mean? That it wasn't for the citizens, who weren't for the ICUs the treatment they needed? Instead, such an effort has been made to use both surgical beds and IF beds and to be converted into special beds. And as soon as there's an empty bed, the one who needs to be transported is transferred if he can. Because there are cases where there are no connections between people in another hospital and this difficulty you can understand, especially those who have served in the National Health System, that we have two parallel ICU lists that cannot be connected to each other, those who are going to get into covid incidents and non covid. This is also the case with Mera25, which said that beds had not been reduced. Not reduced, it's how beds are available. Because last year the beds that you say these beds, because there was a complete suspension of operation and there was no mobility and we did not have so many incidents in the non covid beds, so more covid beds could be provided, there is now an imbalance. The beds didn't disappear. These beds are where they exist. Now we're going to the E.R.E.L.D. bill. The EBRD bill could very easily only be completed with an ideological controversy if the legal person governed by public law should become a legal person under private law. First of all, you voted in 2017, but it does not mean that there was no Committee on Health Supplies before. There was, and you had appointed, and specific individuals, and it worked. The Single Authority did not show up in 2017, there was. And the pathogens that we mention, which we do not say are pathogens of intent, are that in fact the competitions that came out in 2017 and then the EAW are the competitions that existed before the EAW and the Government of the New Democracy. HR 1, HR 2 were notices issued since 2014, beginning 2015, and were signed in 2019. So this showed that there was a delay in public procurement. Shall we agree on the following: do we want to have central competitions? We want, I imagine there is no disagreement there, and we have even managed to have 30%, because it is called what we have done in this period. We have 30% central competitions. These are the ones we want to do with participation in 40% HR contests. There are special charges to be charged by the hospitals, but surely the central tenders in a number of public supplies are in the public interest, because we are basically a large healthcare region. We have the best possible tenders that come precisely because the competitive procedures are central, and regional hospitals are also able to obtain better prices. Because Evangelism, the Laiko, the large hospitals will be able to find good prices in contests, but it is not the same for regional hospitals. We believe that with the legal person of private law there is much greater potential and flexibility for these supplies to run much better and we will see this and will be judged, as will the possibility that there will be, without further burden, by means of contracts which take a certain period of time with specific individuals who come and know the objects of the procurement, to have a better technological approach. At the same time, a number of provisions which have been decided are linked to the fact that, since the Ministry does not actually have arms that can run the Recovery Fund, we want to give this possibility to the EMCDDA, without it being certain whether it will finally be implemented, not to get programmes as it is called, but to be the same implementing body for projects by the Ministry. That is, not just to get programs, as one can get, but to be an implementing body. And we give him these possibilities, because perhaps as has been said, it may not be possible at the moment, but it may be possible to do so. There is, therefore, a lot of talk about public-private partnerships, which is not a matter of EAEC as an EAEC, but it is a matter that we support, we have put it in our programme, we support it. Part of the Recovery Fund will be implemented - that is certain - through public-private partnerships. However, EACH may itself be able to implement projects for the Ministry of Health itself, and that is why all these provisions and the famous piece, which has been mentioned, of communication, which is once again linked to such projects that will be carried out and de facto by itself, the Development Fund itself, has funds to be allocated, precisely to the promotion of the projects that are being carried out. Does the Minister get them? That's what it sounds like. They enter by the process that is in the final state, which is via ASP. The Minister shall appoint until the procedure is completed. And it has two stages, one is that it can remain the same, that is, the existing board of directors can carry out debts. The Minister, if he considers it appropriate, may change it by his decision. However, these persons who will be there will be from the procedure with an APA with specific criteria that exist. Confidentiality. Because again it was said if that's what she's hiding something. Confidentiality obviously and must exist with a serious civil and criminal responsibility, as mentioned, if anyone gives information that harms the EAW. So what are we talking about? Obviously there are no leaks in how there is a competition, in how the technical specifications come out, to what any interested parties exist. Because that was something we should all agree on and it goes without saying that it should not apply. So we believe in all this function, as the rapporteur rightly pointed out to us all these issues, that it is a bill that is in our philosophy, but it will also help to run the central competitions. I now come to the amendment which we had already discussed, because I had presented it to you, and it relates more generally to pharmaceutical expenditure. So here we can see a philosophy that exists and I believe that perhaps some of the provisions to back them up, and I am especially waiting for Mr Blonde who has dealt with the issue of seeing some who really, regardless of whether the amendment as a whole cannot be voted on as a whole, is in the right direction. At the moment, the clawback that exists in the drug, whether it is about extra-nursity or intra-nursity spending or about the great drugs 1A, is too big, it is at 1.3 billion and constantly at the moment, all over the last few years there has been a rise. Our country has been in a co-responsibility framework now. Because in so far as clawback does not reduce it, she will have a responsibility to put money out of the budget. In every case we agree that clawback cannot be a normality. There will be a series of measures which are also structural, but they are also some as they came immediately. The structural programmes, which we will certainly not disagree, but must at some point be implemented in a coordinated way, have to do with the therapeutic protocols, and they have to do with the prescribing control. At the moment, however, there is the following philosophy in these provisions. The philosophy is that basically the problem is a problem of consumption and not a price problem. There may also be a question of prices, but above all it is a question of consumption. So what do we come to regulate? First of all, we are setting specific criteria in the negotiating committee. I spoke with the Negotiations Committee, and I understood that to a large extent, because there is not sufficient evidence, they are often at a disadvantage over the companies that are negotiating. So what do we put into this provision? In any case, calculate the clawback and rebate that would cause the discount that would give it to calculate, calculate the volume of consumption in other countries of the European Union. This is very important because, to the extent that we do not have the full therapeutic protocols, it is very important to transfer responsibility to the companies and see, when they bring us a particular consumption per 100 000 inhabitants, if it responds to the other countries of the European Union. It is also very important to see the price, because with the price framework we have done, because exactly there is a cut at 7%, price cuts, but when we come to the negotiating level, the committee that will be there, especially in expensive or patented medicines, can also ask for the lowest price as an estimate to finally see if the discount we are asking is at the level. That is something we can all agree on in this process. As is right and the possibility at some point of segregation by category of medicines - predominant categories are expensive medicines and generics - so that each category bears the weight of the clawback it creates. In this context, because we have said that it is a matter of prices, it is possible in the next price card, if we see that these measures cannot deliver, can be priced without the protectionist or 7% being different. This whole context, because I have heard criticism and you can agree or disagree, are provisions that basically push the pharmaceutical industry. And here it is clear that all three of what I'm saying is pressure for the pharmaceutical industry. It obliges it to show consumption, obliges it to show prices that are lower, puts the trading conditions in place, enables it to reduce more than 7% and enables the categories of medicines to be divided according to the medicines they create and the most. There's a point where there's been a conversation and it's the part of the uninsured ones. The insecure entered a Ministerial Decision by Maki Voridis in 2014. This measure in other categories, not the drug, existed and SYRIZA enacted it by law. Ministerial decisions were made for both secondary and drug. What SYRIZA says is that as you did it, no one could get it. That's the criticism. But there was the ban, especially on the medicine, that nothing had to be done. The prescribing was done in public structures. SYRIZA voted to transfer it and whether it could be done with private doctors. In fact, at the moment, there are also more important advantages for someone who is uninsured in terms of participation. That is why we have come to an uninsured expenditure of EUR 310 million, which is more than doubled by the expenditure there was. At the moment EOPYY himself comes and says that unfortunately they are being observed, and we are watching this from HEDICA, who have no residence in Greece and where the private doctor writes them why there is no control. A process is being pressed at the moment because people who are insured prefer, if they have a person who is uninsured, to pass medicine on to his AMKA because of the advantages that exist. Unfortunately, it is possible for people who do not live on Greek territory to continue writing drugs in their AMCA. There is no restriction on insurers, just prescribing returns to public structures. The only argument that has a basis and we will consider it and, if necessary, we will reassess it, is that of starting up, that is to say, whether there can be pressure on the public structures for the pandemic. But, believe me, the uninsured will not lose anything at all, nor will it be troubled, but it will continue to take its medicines, and at the same time there will also be a savings of more than EUR 120-130 million that we will see next year. And that's for the benefit of the public. Accordingly, another provision on which the issue may be raised is that the medicinal products under negotiation had been introduced in 2019 to have a different participation. This actually led to the burden of the EEAS because it was paying for that difference. So all the drugs must have the same involvement. The provisions on Aids have been made. We believe that both of us are in the right direction. I mentioned it when I started. We are all agreed on e-prescription, but also on the right to adopt and accept people with hepatitis and HIV to the extent that they comply with their treatment. I also believe that in this context, as far as I have heard from the positions, there will be a common perception. I will not go further into the amendment on compulsoryity. I think we've exhausted the matter. I shall refer to the amendment which has been tabled and combined again with the possibilities that now exist, particularly in order to deal with issues relating to pandemic. First of all, there is an extension for fixed-term contracts. This potential extension for hospitals, as it is given continuously and goes until March, was a request that was made at the fixed time. From there on, there must also be a clear design from here on account of what we are going to do. There is an extension of the deadline for the Ministerial Decision on the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work, which was once again an empty point that had to be regulated. Furthermore, it will certainly also open a wider debate on the basis of the committee's finding, and there is the question of special categories being able to stay after the specialisation of certain specialities which we need, particularly because of the pandemic, so that there is greater speed and the possibility of those retired now for a six-month period, again in the same philosophy, are able to stay on board, so that at the moment we need staff, so that it is limited to the specific categories linked to the pandemic, but also enable the body to judge other specialities depending on its functioning. From there on, there are some other provisions relating to these directions that we have mentioned. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say the following. The EAEC bill echoes a philosophy that is linked to public procurement and in more terms, where we will take the positive advantages of the private market, the reforms that we want to do on the medicine will be in the direction of consumer control. There have now been some much faster in the 2022 budget, because we have a great deal of goal, so that we can fully catch up with the objectives we have set ourselves. Here too, in addition to legislative initiatives, I would like to inform the House of some other measures that have been taken with regard to pharmaceutical expenditure. We have sent seven categories of very expensive drugs to the negotiation which is under way in order to get - except in the second half of 2021, which is why we wanted these criteria to be in place now to start the negotiation - and for one category - because I forgot to say this - medicines which are of low therapeutic value are two possibilities. And I am referring in particular to why we must say what is happening with figures: Vitamin D is going to close 45 million, iron at 36 and magnesium at 16. For some categories these preparations and these medicines are certainly very important, because it is not just vitamin, it is pharmaceutical, and it will remain prescribing. But there will be much more stringent criteria and there will be a budget in this category. I can't accept that these charges may be as high as 100 million. Especially vitamin D, which was at 20 million and has reached 45 in a year only on the grounds that we have covid suddenly written a lot of vitamin D. There is a problem in some of these categories, as in iron, which is at 36 million. They will go into closed categories to induce these clawbacks, but to negotiate prices through the negotiating committee, while at the same time we are giving the amendment that exists and the possibility of there being different pricing criteria and incentives for medicines to move from positive to negative lists, with a ministerial decision that will come out. There will always be treatment on the positive list. That'll be guaranteed. So there'll never be access to a person who wants to get the compensation. There will be. But there are also charges that some who want to be on the negative list can be found on the negative list. There's no public burden. And the patient will always have access to the positive list, because there will be a corresponding treatment. However, there may also be preparations above, which are mainly of the lowest therapeutic value and not of the value, as it was written, to allow them to be found on the negative list. To conclude, therefore, with regard to pharmaceutical policy, the major objectives beyond what we have said will be the therapeutic protocols, it will also be the way to prescribe them, and there it is frankly, we will see what the pharmaceutical expenditure is, since we have done everything it takes, to see whether this amount is sufficient or not. And another measure beyond what I told you is linked to the fact that we have also asked the hospitals to take out all medicines used in patients suffering from Covid, whether they were Covid drugs or other medicines, which were used. Because this is an item of negotiation, that it is not possible to charge the budget for any one who has been calculated on specific objectives that because of pandemic and a burden, because there are funds coming from Covid, to use this amount of these medicines, which, in our view, will streamline the number of pharmaceutical expenditure shown for 2020-2021. And then, in the next legislative initiative that we will be taking - I hope in December - I will be able to table it for consultation to be voted on in January, if necessary, it may take longer, in principle, I am not saying that if something comes that might be with conventions or anything else, I am referring to a basic legislative initiative - it will be the EEA with the debate it had opened with the inclusion of quality criteria, so that there will be a streamlining of private providers here too. Thank you very much, Mr President, for allowing me to take more time than I deserve.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u212	It's a serious matter, so we don't talk about it. And by the Minister for Health, Mr Kostis Hatzidakis, who will be referring to the amendment with a general number of 1151 and a specialist of 166.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, following on from the announcements made by Prime Minister Mrs Mitsotakis last week, with the amendment of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs which we are supporting today, we are introducing the exceptional financial support for certain categories of our fellow citizens, those who, on the presumption, have a greater need to support in prolonged health crisis and social distancement conditions, as well as the recent price crisis, namely the low pensioners, the disabled and the insecure overages, with an increase in pensions and allowances that they already receive. The current measures complement the double payment of the minimum guaranteed income, which has already been legislated and paid on 15 December. Therefore, we have additional support for low pensioners, disability benefits beneficiaries, uninsured over-ages and for those who benefit from the minimum guaranteed income, four different categories of our fellow citizens. I would therefore like to use the Step of the House today in order to give some additional, useful information to those who are waiting for payment of these allowances. More specifically, the increase in the pension will receive all those who are low-retired, that is to say those who receive a definitive, temporary or advance pension due to old age, disability or death, pre-retirement benefit, disability benefits from the EKA and special categories such as war disabled, artists and others, whose annual individual taxable income for the tax year 2021 does not exceed EUR 7,200 and the family's EUR 14,400, and also the total value of the household's real estate, based on ENPY 2021, shall not exceed EUR 200,000. The amount of aid per beneficiary is EUR 250, plus EUR 50 for each dependent duty member and will be paid to the beneficiaries up to 31-12-2021. At the moment, a road race with cooperation between the EFCA, the General Accounting Office of the State and the AIA has been launched, in order to take account of the criteria that I mentioned are technically - extremely technical, as you can see - to identify as soon as possible the final beneficiaries of the exceptional financial assistance, to make the relevant cross-checks and to make payment in time. The method of payment, if it is to be made in one payment together with the drafting of January or by means of a posteriori payment, will be announced in the next few days. What I said was the low-pensioners. As far as the beneficiaries of the disability allowance of the OPECA are concerned, in December the preferential benefits are increased by EUR 250. The surcharge will be paid on a regular basis in December. I note this because they are asked by thousands of low-pensioners, beneficiaries of these allowances, and I want clarity. Similarly, the monthly pension of uninsured overtime and the social solidarity allowance of uninsured overtime will be granted increased by EUR 250 for December 2021, together with regular payment. The measures are part of a framework of actions which provide for the strengthening of vulnerable population groups, support for their available income and improve their quality of life. For example, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you - because the facts like us, we do not like them, nobody can avoid them - that in the last two and a half years the pension for retired workers has increased from 30% to 70%. In the case of pensioners with more than thirty years of work, injustices of the Katrugalou law have been dealt with and the increase in the pensions for pensioners has been voted on. There are already 95% retrospectives and increases in 95% of these cases. Staff have been strengthened in the care structures of the elderly by 33% - anyone who wants to disprove the numbers. The new single modern telephone centre, the single service number of the Ministry, was created in 1555, which has been accepted within four months over half a million calls. The calls approach the six hundred thousand with a response rate between 97% and 98% and 84% direct response rates. I think it is social policy in practice, because so far workers, self-employed, pensioners have been helpless, without information, without State information, in the middle of the client for many decades. Also, at the end of the year we will achieve a record of all the times in the Ministry's pension issue, as in the main pensions we will exceed the number of decisions in excess of two thousand, when two years ago the corresponding figure was about thirty thousand, while in total, the decisions concerning pensioners this year will exceed one way or another more than half a million. We have a road ahead of us, and we must continue with determination and a system in the same direction. We'll do it. The bill we announced yesterday about EVA is a bill of common sense, which attempts to put things in a row, beyond what has happened all the last period in EVA. We will move in the same direction knowing that we must be well aware of our obligations towards workers, the insured, the retired, in any case to those who expect the ECA to be a social tool. I repeat again that under no circumstances should anyone have in mind that we are a body of power when we have workers, insured, retired. And the ECA Government and its officials must feel that we are civil servants and that philosophy reflects the bill, which we will shortly bring to official consultation and I expect the opposition parties to be placed in the same direction. In the same context, also, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs promotes a package of EUR 5 billion for actions of a social character either from the NSRF or from the RRF, the Recovery Fund. It is the largest social package that has existed in Greece over the last few decades and that has been signed by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. It is a package from which the workers, the unemployed, the pensioners and the disabled will gain. And since the day after tomorrow is the day that is dedicated to disabled people all over the world, I would like to remind you that, from this package, there are EUR 480 million for projects that will become modern social protection tools. Amongst other things, these actions will only be financed: the disability card, which will be implemented from time to time, will be a card which will make the daily life of the disabled less difficult in relation to their contact with the public, the staff assistant who will also start the year to apply for a thousand cases of serious disability. Actions on the accessibility of disabled people will be promoted, but, of course, there will also be policies for homeless people, for child protection, for the balance of family and working life. I have no doubts, ladies and gentlemen, that everyone in this Chamber is sensitive to social policy issues, to our fellow human beings in need. I never doubted it and I never will. What I cannot accept, however, is the constant question of our own intentions, in any case, we are not from society and have not been in these seats by society. We in the face of this unfair, unfounded criticism are responding with work. The amendment we are proposing today is, in practice, support for those who need it in society. The measures put forward to the ECA are measures to help insured and retired persons. All 5 billion from the new ESDP and the Recovery Fund are also social policy in practice. In the big words and in unjust criticism, we respond with a very specific, social policy in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, I would like the floor for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u216	Yes, Mr. Pleari. I'll give you the floor. First, however, I will give Mr Karathanasopoulos the floor to ask the Minister of Labour. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u217	I would like to ask the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, even though the question is a surplus, because we know your answer in advance, Minister, unless you surprise us, but we do this to record it in the Minutes. We would like to ask you the Minister's position on the two amendments tabled by the JRC. One amendment relates to the reintroduction of the third and fourteenth pensions for pensioners and the thirteenth and fourteenth wages for workers in the public sector and in the public sector. The second amendment concerns the abolition of the Brutsi-Achtsioglou Act as regards the fixing of minimum wages and wages and the reintroduction to those which were previously in force.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Here, Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, in all the things you're putting again, we're responding with works. What are these works? It is that unemployment that was in the summer of 19 17% today is 13% and that was not accidental, because of the tax, licence, insurance - the insurance contributions were reduced - and the government's general labour policy. We also respond with our overall policy to the needs of society and households, and this is evidenced by the fact that, according to the latest figures - there has also been a debate in the House on this - household income has increased by 7%, lastly in the second quarter of 2021. And we will also respond further in practice to our own policy with the decisions we will take in the first half of 2022 on minimum wages. You know, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, it has been said that we would never teach the good Samaritan at school if he hadn't had any money to share. Our difference is that we propose the creation of wealth and income. Our ideology, which has been universally justified, is the only way to increase income and in this way to really serve the interests of workers and the weak, otherwise we will share poverty. Our difference is that you share poverty, while we are trying to create national wealth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u221	I would like to say that we accept the amendments which the Ministry of Health has obviously tabled, 1151, 1152, 1153, and the Minister of Labour's ministerial amendment of 1150.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u223	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, let me begin by expressing my warmest condolences to my fellow Member, Stathes Koutmerides, for the loss of his daughter, a tragic outcome, unfortunately tragically, and the subject that we are discussing today, which also relates to the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, it took place before a debate I think at unusually high tones if we were to move on to December 1st to what happened in our country last month, what happened in November. We had two thousand two hundred deaths, Minister, two hundred thousand cases, five thousand in public hospitals today as patients of COVID and sixty-four, today six hundred ninety-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixteen. November is the month in which the Prime Minister himself said, while all this happened, that it is not necessary and is not in favour of the mandatoryity of vaccines. And the Prime Minister himself said in an interview that containment measures cannot be applied to churches, because there is no control mechanism. These were checked in November that he gave you the dramatic elements of the pandemic a moment ago. After all that happened today, Mr. Mitsotakis came to the Chamber to tell us that the scientists fell out - the government's statement of the Prime Minister's government is that scientists, experts fell out to the fact that the wall of immunity is achieved with 70% - to confront why it is convenient for him to communicate with Mr Polakis, to attack politically, to try again in this very critical situation to work on the pandemic to obtain impressions and a temporary political benefit. Mr. Mitsotakis also came to shift responsibility to the Change Movement in relation to which position and attitude he will hold. And I would like you, Minister, to convey to the Prime Minister that the PASOK, the Change Movement on the issues of responsibility and the salvation of the country, and with the safeguarding of the interests of the citizens, has never hesitated to be on the right side of the story, when we arrived at a dead end, with the responsibility of the party led by Mr Mitsotakis today, who I am passing away, was not on the same ship of responsibility with us to make the difficult decisions, necessary national and beneficial to save the country. So the government, and confirmed with the Prime Minister's current position, has lost control over the management of the pandemic. This is also followed by the loss of public confidence. This has led to the failure of the vaccination effort. Every time you take an emergency measure comes out of media titles, go out government officials, celebrate the rate of vaccination increase, but the time of valuation is coming and you already find things are not as good as you think they are. What credibility, ladies and gentlemen, can anyone who is constantly making a proclamation that undoes the other? What credibility a government has worked - yes, it has worked - and it has marginalized scientists and contagious debts, but the two Ministers of State, Minister for Health - that is the reality - who come out and say their views on every subject, as if they were not due. What credibility can a Prime Minister have when accusing the citizens of relaxation, but himself gives the slogan of relaxation in advance of announcing the end of the pandemic? In fact - beware now of irony - two days ago the late Minister for Development said the pandemic was faded. The pandemic got out on Monday and Tuesday morning, the Prime Minister is taking action on the enforceability of vaccinations. So these messages, ladies and gentlemen, are not only contradictory, but I think they also give a completely wrong picture of the size of the health situation, but also about the need for measures and seriousness. So, what credibility can a government have when the finger moves to the citizens, but does it not take the measures where it needs to be taken, i.e. in the public transport, in the churches, in the courts? The last credibility votes have been lost over the two weeks. On 18 November, the Prime Minister - I read it exactly as he said - said: 'Treat and encouragement have greater power than general obliterity aspirations'. So will the government at last assume responsibility for all the situation we have reached so far for the geometric increase in imports and permeated in the last month? And I say this because since the beginning of October specialist scientists, intensive scientists and even the media, were warning about rapid worsening since mid-October, early November, and how the situation will arrive where unfortunately it has arrived today, when you sent out a message that the worst is behind us. Will the government assume responsibility for suspending the operation of the ESS? Almost ten thousand surgery is on the CSD's waiting list. And since we're talking about the health system, and there's a discussion about it, you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, are you proud of what the Minister presently does not, which is fresh in his place, the Ministry of Health in the midst of a pandemic? What have you done, Minister, to attract doctors from abroad, representing the government? Who will come to work in public hospitals with a salary of EUR 900? Did you make a serious talk about coming back to finally change the EHS payroll and have incentives for doctors to come from abroad to serve public hospitals? Heavy and unhealthy hauls month after month, Amendment No. Today's provision that reassigns the debate on heavy and unhealthy. Is this the reward of doctors, nurses and workers in the RIS, when you timely transfer self-evident rights that the Scientific Committee responsible has already advocated? I think that you are suffocating and that is what was seen with the Prime Minister's current position, who says that we have intubated people who may not be in ICUs, but who are in similar conditions of care. But is it the same or worse prediction of all those hospitalized outside of the ICU relative to those in Intensive Treatment Units? How so surely does the Prime Minister say otherwise? The government is shifting responsibility. When to blame, when to blame, when to blame, when to blame, when to blame the young, when to blame the over sixty and when to measure them accordingly. Everything is left to individual responsibility, the citizens are to blame for everything, and while all this package, which the Prime Minister called forced, is a confession of failure of the government's strategy, the government refuses to take its own responsibility. Could you apply more stringent containment measures for all? You could have! However, because there is a lack of financial support, that is why you have not chosen it. Could you also apply measures to vaccinated animals, even if the risks for them are lower than the unvaccinated? And that you could do to shield the country and mitigate the consequences of the pandemic. This, however, did not fit in your communication account for a pandemic of the invaders. So, on the one hand, a lack of resources on the other, you are leading to today's provision. Since the issue of schools has been mentioned, I think that we all agree that being 45% of students in a section of patients and being treated with covid is not something we can go through very loosely and not take measures. So, Minister, we should go to a percentage - for example 30% - as a limit, because if we underestimate the contagion between pupils in relation to the overall impact on pandemic sizes, I think we have not made a proper assessment, we simply need to be polite, for good reasons. So let's go to the provision of the compulsoryity it has dealt with and the debate today. The nature of the measure and the substance are punishable, and it should not be. In our view, positive incentives should be given to our fellow citizens who will be asked to be vaccinated, for example, to be exempt from participation in medical expenses or the cost of laboratory examinations for a reasonable period. Have an incentive, have a positive motive, not a negative one, through obligability and have an incentive, a motive. On what grounds was this decision taken? We talked about it before. Does it reduce contagiousness? Is it increasing the self-protection of our fellow citizens over sixty years, or is it simply being done to decongest the health system, which you are constantly saying we have strengthened as much as we should, to the extent that we should, with the staff, with ICU beds, with the development of new clinics, but are we finally coming back to choices that have as a reference the system's resistance limits? In fact, Minister, you have been talking for so many years and you have been in contact with the world enough, what will you say to a low pensioner of sixty years that today with his amendment you give him 250 euros, but you tell him that if you are not vaccinated, we will get you 100 back and his neighbour, fifty-eight years, inconvenience, has he, too, received a lightning advance payment of EUR 40,000, has been put into a ESDP, a grant for his business and has no cost, no penalty? Is this a fair treatment of citizens who have three, four, five, six years' difference in how the state treats the citizen? That is why we say, let the punishments and go to positive measures to encourage citizens. You need to withdraw the ministers' self-inherited puncturers. I see that this picture has at least improved in recent years. Of course, those who spoke of luxurious ESS are not entitled to their choice today. Finally, Minister, apply the suggestions of special scientists and not the other way round. You came to this Chamber and said, when you announced the measures, that you proposed measures to the Commission and the Commission accepted it. What do we say? It must be done exactly the opposite. The Commission will propose measures to you or to the Ministerial Council and that decisions be taken. Stop splitting up society, target political opponents only for small-party benefit, and finally ask for cross-party support for the measures to be taken after supporting the national health system. We disagree with the arrogant way in which even today - the measurable elements are dramatic - you manage your pandemic, your complacency that you do everything well without taking any political responsibility, because all indicators are one of the worst at European level and why you are still working on a difficult situation. We have proposed, as you know, Minister, the compulsoryity of too many categories of workers who are in contact with the citizens in an unsuspecting time and have said so well. We blame you for inaction, we blame you for inefficiency, we blame you for incompetence. In the light of public health and the national interest, which for us PASOK has always been a compass, and we will always vote for this provision in the interests of public and national interests. But your responsibilities for the situation we have reached so far are overwhelming and you should at some point not only at last make self-criticism, but one of you also assumes the political responsibility for where we have arrived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr Katrin. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, is called on in Step. Mr. Xanthe, you know you have half the time. Don't embarrass me. That's the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Arabaji has the same problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u225	I understand the need to respect the Rules of Procedure, but too many issues have been raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u226	You gotta understand me, 'cause you're all doing this to me. You're not paying any attention to me and you say yours all the time. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u227	The debate today obviously took second place to the bill itself. We have discussed the committees. No fundamental change will take place in the field of centralised procurement, which must go ahead with the change of legal status. I think the crucial issue is that the government - and the Minister said it openly to the committees - has a flexible tool so that this company - which becomes a legal person governed by private law - can play a role in public-private partnerships and in the absorption of European funds as not due. Her job is to organize and complete central supplies. It is in the same line as the PPPs that the government and the political leadership have been pushing for a long time. The situation is the issue and the measures of the government. So the juncture is too dramatic, and we are not saying it here now to settle the situation, but we are really disturbed by the strife you are coming here with, and you are about to tell us that everything is going well. It is a challenging thing that the Prime Minister and the Members of the House are doing, and of course the Minister is doing. So here we have a blackout in the health system. The 'lockdown' which you have imposed on the national health system. The national health system has downloaded rolls and currently does not serve the majority of its structures the non-covid morbidity and this has side losses. There's a scream of agony among the people in the front line. You are underestimating it tragically and you are not making any move that strengthens their morality. It could, at the moment, be two, three crucials. One was what my colleague, Mr Katrinis, said earlier, at last, to adopt the conclusion and move to institutional recognition of the heavy and unhealthy professions for workers in the health system. That would really be a move imposed and right. You don't. You could also institutionalise what we have told you over a year ago. Those who leave the public health system either for retirement or for other reasons either have an automatic replacement and automatic declaration of vacant posts, rather than expecting some sort of mass notices to come out of either doctors or other staff. This would also be a stability movement in the system and would provide a message that the health system will slowly begin to rely on and especially on its human potential and we will not have a lunar landscape, as specified the next day after the pandemic. You don't do that either. The main thing is that you do not recognise the criticality of the situation and of course the wrong strategy that has been adopted. The strategy that we have a pandemic of invaders is epidemiologically wrong. The fourth epidemic wave cannot be recovered - another issue is the resilience of the system and its response - only by measures to accelerate vaccinations. It also needs measures to monitor the spread and restrictions on social meetings, and this should also concern vaccinated people. We cannot have a public health crisis, die every day of eighty, ninety and a hundred people, cannot serve the world of people suffering from the health system in time, be financially burdened, and you say that the vaccinated will live their freedom and regularity. It is a challenge, a challenge to health, a challenge to society. In fact now in this climate of confidence, which concerns an important part of society - unfortunately one third - you are coming and taking measures that will exacerbate it. We developed it, we explained it. They are neither fair nor proportionate and, of course, they will not be effective in terms of public health. This story of fines has elements of social cruelty, and it cannot end up with such measures either cutting wages or imposing fines or losing, of course, - even worse - the job. With a society that is poor, its social cohesion is undermined, measures of voluntary vaccination cannot be promoted to encourage and achieve the right objective of universal vaccination and the Immigration Wall. So we need a change of line,'restart' in total. The Prime Minister on the issue of vaccination says we're not suggesting anything. We are suggesting monotonously from the beginning of the summer, which had planted the vaccination programme, one called health treatment, health care in the community and the general population, taking advantage of health, family doctors, health professionals, public and private sectors, taking advantage of the structures of the self-government of the social sector, making use of institutions that can play a positive role in changing the social awareness of our fellow citizens who have doubts and fears. You don't do that. You come to five and say 'Tell us what else to do'. What you're doing is in the wrong direction. It will create more problems than it is supposed to solve. As far as the situation in the health system itself is concerned, telling us now that you have almost exhausted the scope for cooperation with the private sector and the military hospitals is insulting our intelligence. So you're telling us that the private sector has suspended its surgery, they don't regularly get surgery in private clinics, and so there's beds being kept, because IF beds that you're saying they're full or they're a large percentage covered are for postoperative diseases, for regular surgery that the private sector does. Or we will have a single speed in the health system and will divide the weight of Covid incidents in public hospitals and in private hospitals and in military hospitals, or everyone will be recruited now that we have a war, or then you will be responsible for the collapse of the health system and for the flight trends that are already recorded by his scientific potential and especially by young doctors. So you can't say these things. You have made a political choice to provide immunity to the large private therapists. And I challenge you to tell me in the Diavalcanic of Thessaloniki how many Covid incidents are currently being treated. How many Covid incidents are hospitalized at the Diabalcan Center and how much have they also committed to hospitalizing in Athens' large private therapies? Zero. Zero. How many people in Thessaloniki's excellent facilities and equipment are currently being treated with Covid symptomology? Just a little. A hospital that could play a key role as a Covic reference unit for all of Northern Greece, so that other hospitals can continue to provide services and not drop security standards. Now the Prime Minister comes here and tells us "we have no proof that the imploded outside the IF has consequences"? Are we serious? Ask Mrs Gaga, who is aware of the difficulty and to her honor, she behaves with empathy when she goes and communicates with the ERC world. So leave the smart ones and leave the big words out here, because you've done a mess. Society knows that and of course it starts counting on you. And if you think you're going to reverse this trend by closing the eye on a piece of vaccinated that you're going to create, strengthen his sacred indignation against the invaders, that is, to create conditions of polarization and division, if you really think this is the way to secure consents at this critical time, you're laughed. You haven't gotten a load of what pandemic means. You haven't taken a hump that public health crises require minimum of understanding and require measures of persuasiveness. Portugal, which has this exceptional rate of vaccination, first of all, has made 29 000 increments at the ESS, has added EUR 2.2 billion to the regular budget of 2021 and, of course, has strengthened social cohesion, has increased the minimum wage seriously. He also did not politicize and won politically on the vaccination case. Costa didn't even leave McCrone saying that "we are terrible, we have Europe's best vaccination programme and we brought the vaccines and we saved you." So society was convinced, and that is how connections were ensured.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u228	Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u229	Two words on the amendments. I'm really sorry, Mr. President, but I've been waiting patiently all day long. So - and our rapporteur has said so - on compulsoryity, and we are voting against it for the hundreds of years. The amendment relating to two crucial regulations with which we are fully in agreement, namely the seropositive and intangible prescriptions for medicinal products and laboratory tests and the possibility of adopting and administering them, is absolutely positive. They help to deal with problems, discrimination and stigmatisation, and we are positive. But we cannot vote for this amendment because you have put it together with other articles with which we disagree. And if you really wanted consent, because today is World AIDS Day, you had to bring it as a separate amendment and vote for all the political forces and not put it into a package of other amendments, which, firstly, create obstacles to access to uninsured people, for their medicines and for their examinations. This is going to happen, we know that very well. And that's why we used to make this arrangement in order to make it easier for them to access. You, therefore, undo the line of universal coverage and access to uninsured people. Also, there is the amendment that enables the Minister to facilitate and move medicinal products from the positive list of medicinal products in the negative list. Obviously the companies have an interest in this because they come out of the claw back this story. But practically this will be transferred to the citizen's pocket. So increase private pharmaceutical expenditure in the midst of a crisis. That's what you're gonna do with these moves. Obviously the debate on claw back and more rational spending management is very great. We can't do it now in two minutes. The idea of closed budgets by therapeutic category or by active substance ATC 4 and ATC 5 is positive. That's good. It is another thing that the three closed budgets, generic, off-patent and on-patent, which the pharmaceutical industry is asking for. You've made her quite a favour of the pharmaceutical industry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u230	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u231	And the key thing you've done to her is to establish the idea of co-responsibility for claw back. It is another thing to take structural measures. The crucial issue is the reduction of demand and waste with therapeutic and diagnostic protocols. This is to do for everyone, both for the insured and the uninsured, not to create access barriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Xanthi. When Mrs. Arabaji comes up, you'll see what damage you've done. How can I stop her? The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, now speaks. Mrs. Arabatzi has asked to speak lately. After the verb "I love you", the best verb is "I help." Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Let's make a case of work to facilitate the conversation. Which one? That the government really wants through the new measures it took for the vaccine, that is, the mandatory 60 above, to protect public health, as it claims. That is what the Minister and the Prime Minister said: 'We are doing all this to protect public health'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] However, compulsory vaccination at 60 above is part of the logic of individual responsibility. What results do the government have for individual responsibility? The results are tragically recorded in reality. So it proved ineffective in dealing with pandemic, not to say that we had a dangerous governmental management of the pandemic, Cultivated the logic of compulsory social cannibalism, the automation between the vaccinated and the invasive ones, which we see every day widened. We also took advantage of the obligation to impose alternative options, for example the suspension of contracts on unvaccinated health workers, but also of a number of other anti-population options, such as the fine you are now imposing, the EUR 100 carving of unvaccinated over 60 years of age. And you get to the point where you say it's a health price. Really? Is that an honorable health charge or a punishment in the world? We say this because in this way you are opening dangerous roads to extend such a fine procedure to other diseases in the name of allegedly protecting public health. Patients will be asked to put their hand in the pocket deeply because they 'have not complied with the suggestions'. Besides, it's no accident that you're copying what private insurance does here. Different contracts to smokers and non-smoking non-smokers. That is the logic you want to extend to the public health system as a whole. We won't get into the logic of other parties coming in. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement also said so very typically. You put, he says, negative motives while you should give positive motives. I mean, give a bonus to those who are going to be vaccinated, just like you did to the young. Really? Is that a scientific method? Does he have any scientific motive, positive or negative? What is the motive on the basis of substance? The irrationalism grows. Because your entire policy is based on irrationality. The culmination of irrationalism of government policy is that the vaccine is the tool that will save us from the pandemic, and that is not the case. You are supernatural, i.e., vaccine capabilities while everything has shown that it is not just up to the vaccine. It's a weapon, but you don't win the war. We have seen huge contradictory positions on these issues of vaccine compulsory. For other charges, SYRIZA says: police officers, soldiers. Others say other parties. That's all you say. So, unlike your logic and other parties, what does the Communist Party of Greece say? It says, first of all, that vaccination must be universal for all people. How do you achieve the universality of vaccination? Firstly, with the integrated and many times personalised scientific information of the world, not with the various television spots, nor with the telemasms taking place in the various windows. On the contrary, scientific information is needed in hospitals in large workplaces. That's not what the government did. Secondly, individual free pre-vaccination control for these categories of population that may have a serious effect on the vaccine is needed. Third, pharmacovigilance. Fourthly, monitoring of each vaccinated animal systematically, how the vaccination course goes if side effects occur and the immediate treatment of the side effects. Fifthly, a record of this in order to allow scientific data to be available. These need an advanced primary health care that is outraged. It is nonexistent on the substance. Not on your own responsibility. You found them. Why don't you do that? Did you not know this way out that is much more effective and rational, why is it stepping on scientific data and exploiting the achievements of medical science? Because you consider this option to be costly. So you do not care, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to protect public health but to adapt the needs to be met for the upgrading of public health to the logic of cost-benefit. To this magnificence. With the result that you degrade public health. Why don't you tell me there's no inexhaustible resources. No one spoke of inexhaustible resources. We say, however, that there is money. And you, as a government, say that there is money and you even celebrate for the money you have found. But where do you give that money? You give them exactly to support the needs of competitiveness and profitability of the investment plans of business groups and not to ensure public health. You give them for huge programs that do not shield the country's defence, but rather fall within the imperialist designs. You're giving it to the huge naval expenditures. Seven and a half billion are in the year 2022, naval spending and armaments programmes. Seven and a half billion when health expenditure is not even 30% of that. They're much less. So here is what the choices you have made, that is, the choices that serve the needs of capital rather than business groups. One thing is that. So we say that the vaccine is a conquest of humanity. It's an important weapon. But with the vaccine you don't win the war against the pandemic. What else does it need, Minister? Firstly, prevention of the non-dispersal of the pandemic. What does it mean to prevent the pandemic from being dispersed? It means, in particular, strict health protocols in workplaces, in large businesses that have become centres of pandemic overtransmission. Strict health and safety measures at workplaces. But these measures are not taken because it means cost. Here's the cost again. He's reappearing. These costs challenge and undermine the competitiveness of business groups. It also takes beyond strict protocols and decongestion where there is often great confrontation, such as in public transport or in schools. Where are you going? In the opposite direction. You are not strengthening public transport. The world is particularly sardine during peak hours. In schools you reduce the departments by merging them, so creating even greater conditions of co-existence. The third issue that is needed, Minister, for the non-proliferation of the pandemic is the immunisation of public hospitals. On the contrary, you have turned public hospitals into hospitals in a disease, with the suspension of almost all regular surgery and the majority, for certain hospitals, of emergency surgery, except where human life is directly at risk. There is a need to intensify doctors and nurses. Instead of hiring medics and medical staff, what are you doing? Proceed to some fixed-term temporary staff or to the mobility of doctors and nurses from health centres and primary health care - as a result of this going even further - to hospitals and hospitals. You reached the point where you forced the doctors to leave the hospitals of Patras to go to the hospitals of Pyrgos, a hundred kilometers away, two hundred go - come on a carniola road. You know they've given up doctors. You know very well that doctors have resigned because they don't put their lives in the lottery, in the roulette of this carnival street. Why are you doing this? For that very reason. Therefore, instead of going to recruitment for permanent staff, permanently reserving contract staff, temporary staff, assistants, you are making progress on mobility issues. Instead of creating new necessary ICUs, instead of restoring the closed hospitals that the Government of New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA coexistence - ANEL keep them closed. And, of course, instead of claiming without compensation for the private sector, you are battling with the private sector. What beds will you give you, what incidents you will give him to be able to earn, with a fee very high. To be able to satisfy the interests of health dealers. That's what you're doing. You're haggling with health dealers. So what you and the other parties are calling harmonious coexistence in the private and public sectors has proved to be how much bubble and dangerous it is. Because at the time the public health system collapses in hospitals, the private sector increases its turnover and profitability. The health dealers rub their hands in this situation. And you know that very well, I don't have to tell you. So the basic question that we have put, but you did not answer, Minister, and the question discussed on Monday by the JRC, is: why is this picture, that is, the collapse of the public health system, the hospitals not only in our country, but also at a pan-European and global level of developed, particularly developed capitalist economies with the appearance of a coronary? Why were they led to the collapse with the appearance of a coronary, when the accomplishments of medicine science have reached huge levels? Only the use of digital technology in medical science opens huge horizons. Here there are personalized drugs, but there are also a number of other huge opportunities open up. Yet the public health system went bankrupt. What were these poor materials with which the public health systems were constructed both in our country and elsewhere? On the basis of these poor materials was the marketing of health. Because, in your opinion, and the opinion of SYRIZA, the Change Movement and others, and of the European Union's policy, it is an individual choice for issues and health and education and a number of others. Is that really the urban state at what point has it reached? It has just arrived to provide some basic health benefits so that people do not die massively and that the labour force can reproduce and upwards provide very specialized and very up-to-date health benefits depending on each other's wallet. And you spoke before about very expensive drugs. In these very expensive medicines, the worker has no access. Has the retired and the unemployed not accessed but the capitalist?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u234	How's he not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u235	He can't buy them, Minister, you know that very well. But the capitalist, the businessman, the industrialist, the banker, the big trader can buy these. That is why in all the developed capitalist economies there is a huge difference between the life expectancy of the working class and the bourgeois. Hugely differentiation, huge strip, because not everyone has the same potential for access to health. And that's the inhuman and parasitic system you're supporting. In this respect, therefore, and the new ESS that you are preparing from the same filthy materials will be shaped like those of the previous governments that have shaped this ESS that exists. And it will be even more dangerous in terms of making even more use of a number of such forms that will further increase the symphony of the public and private sectors. This new RU where will it lead? Firstly, in a new cycle of abolition and merger of hospitals and clinics. Seven thousand beds have been lost over the last decade, which would be necessary if they were today to deal with the pandemic. So we'll have even greater loss of beds. Secondly, to strengthen the business operation of hospitals. Thirdly, even greater commercialisation and therefore a burden on the people's strata. And fourthly, in even greater distortions in the working relationships between doctors and nurses and workers in health and thus greater intensification. You are talking, like today's bill, about the need to save spending and rationalisation. But you know very well that this is the tool to allow private people to enter hospitals. And this entry of individuals has increased the cost, Minister. It is not the struggle here to have contractive or individual employment relationships for cleaners, for example, since in both cases the common denominator is the rights of workers to cleanliness, rather than the recruitment of permanent staff and the level of cleanliness. The entry of the private person increases the cost. Public-private partnerships even for the purchase of machinery launches costs. And, of course, another thing that will fire even more costs are green goods. Do you know how much the cost has been increased, Minister, just because the plastic forks, glasses, knives, dishes, bowls in hospitals and their replacement with recyclable paper materials have stopped? It is 300% on the cost for green goods, in the name of so-called environmental protection! So, with your bill, what do we have? We will have control over expenditure so that the pie can be concentrated in less and less hands, that is to say, one-sided sale of those businesses that can participate in the tenders, so monopolies also mean monopolistic prices, which means an increase in costs. Secondly, it will result in lowering state funding and increasing the share of insured persons either directly from their pockets, or indirectly as taxpayers and insured through participation. So, Mr President, we have been following a conflict between the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff. This conflict, this meaningless controversy, characterises two major considerations. Firstly, both the position of the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff Responsibility is contradictory. I have time for both dentology and tritology, Minister. Don't complain about time. You consumed a lot more. We therefore have the contradictions and irrationality that characterised the position of both the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff. And of course if you did a quiz by taking out who said what, it couldn't easily be discerned. Why? Because Mr. Tsipras would have said the same thing if he were Prime Minister and, respectively, what Tsipras said would be said by Mr. Mitsotakis if he were Chief of Staff. Because there is a common basis in both these parties' policies and the rest of them, which are health trade and the things that confirm these and the SYRIZA Government, that is, the closure of hospitals, flexible working relationships, intensification of work, the operation of hospitals, afternoon medical services, creation of the anonymous health establishment and participation in this Santorini hospital as a public limited company and a legal person of private law. And it's not just the things, it's today's. What did SYRIZA say at the beginning of the pandemic? That we have to keep a fish silence and work out later. That's what he said. After the pandemic we're going to deal with the government, he said at first, in the first phase of the pandemic. He then spoke of joint acceptance of a Minister for Health or joint acceptance of a committee of experts. Which means what? That there is a convergence strategy which the anxieties and the Prime Minister, and Mr Tsipras too, are whether there can be consensus and consensus in the policy being pursued.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u236	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u237	But the JRC is the priority, Mr President, and I shall end with that. Its priority is through the struggle of the people to enforce what they can and as far as they can to protect public health. Only this one can upgrade and protect public health, the people with their struggle. Because the dangerous virus isn't the coronary. The dangerous virus is capitalism. He's got to clash with him. In other words, to make use of all the possibilities he has in his hands and he can achieve it. Why? Because there is the other road and the other road is very specific, Mr President. The other way, therefore, is that which we have seen built up in the countries of socialism with the enormous achievements of another era in the field of health, by exploiting a globally developed state health system free of charge and equal access for all the people, with the development of primary health care everywhere, fully equipped and staffed in a place of residence, at workplaces, in training places, with hospitals developed with modern organograms based on developments in science and on the needs of each area, with modern equipment and full staffing. This is the JRC's political choice, by which we can now ensure that modern needs are met and that all the possibilities offered by scientific technology are exploited to the benefit of satisfying people's needs and not of profits, as you do. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u238	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, because I see Mr. Blonde leaving, can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u240	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u241	Mr Vandemeulebroucke, on the amendments to the drugs directive - because you are talking about gifts to pharmaceuticals, and I will speak here with names - a gift to pharmaceuticals was that we went to honour from the three lower countries and the eurozone in both the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u242	No, that's not how it works!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u243	No, listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Xanthi, I'll give you the floor. You'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u245	And when I say "names", I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u246	Get a bill to talk about it! Why don't you change it? You're making fun of the world!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u247	Don't worry when you hear the truths. It was three European Union, two eurozones went. Why did he go in? I'll tell you. Why are you coming here and talking about the drug charge? Let me tell you something, you said for a present to the pharmaceutical industry. Do you want it? Does he want PSURs to have a different budget? The multinationals, the PIFs, they want it? When I told you about names, that's what I mean. Essential request of the EUTF is that there should be no division by category. Second, you're asking me what I'm changing. I'll tell you what I'm changing to what you guys are talking about. First, do you see in the negotiations I come and say that the lowest price in the European Union will be taken into account in the negotiations? I'm legislating. What you say "what I do", when you see in the negotiating criteria, is the volume of consumption and prices in the European Union that are lower than prices in Greece. Secondly, in the price report I say that the next one will come out without a plaque, is that what the PVF wants? I told you all the links between the pharmaceutical industry, because no one wants these changes, which means clawback by category that creates the expenditure, a price list, without a cut if needed and negotiation, which will bring us a volume of consumption and a lower price to the European Union in the originals. So, Mr. Xanthi, it was a challenge to say here that this is a gift to the pharmaceutical industry. None of the links want these changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, please have a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u249	Yes, say a word, but let me tell you something, Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Respect the fact that you were leaving and wanted to answer. He could've said it later. So listen to him. I'll give you the floor, I'm not saying no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u250	I didn't want you to be gone, I could say it later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u251	For a minute, I will be placed, not on the basis of the substance. Minister, if you want us to have a serious debate on pharmaceutical policy, do something very simple: reopen the intergroup on medicine, which this previous government has set up, the perpetrator, and which has transparently put all the stakeholders to discuss before the Members, and there to speak clearly in the face of the conflicting interests. And not freeze her for two and a half years now. Why don't you reoperate her? On the initiative of the President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsi. Bring that committee back, we can sit there seriously, with evidence and arguments, see who is making the ballots and who is not doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u252	Thank you very much. We now have Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 'It is time for the European Union to consider the issue of compulsory vaccination', said the President of the Commission on the 'Omicon' variant, specifying that the decision belongs to the Member States. "It is a debate that I personally believe should be done," said Ursula von der Lyen at a press conference on pandemic developments, one day after the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis made vaccination compulsory for the ages of sixty and over. "The introduction of the mandatory vaccination requirement requires a common approach." the President of the Commission recognised that one third of the four hundred and fifty million Europeans remained inconsistent. Because Mr. Blonde, who left, said to some people that I had a chance, he says, they close their eyes to the invaders, creating a kind of social division. Who creates a social division I think is more than understandable and self-evident. "This is a debate which I think we should lead." said Mrs von der Lyen. While the President of the Commission says these, it has unfortunately proved to be bilingualism, destructive neutrality on major issues, political survival on two boats, once again per annum, by the party of Officerial Anti-Population, on the basis of today's debate and the hopeless effort of the Greek Solution to object to anti-constitutionality, which at the end also marginally supported. I did not sincerely expect Mr Tsipras to respond either voluntarily or directly to the successive invitations by the Prime Minister from the Step of the House to agree on whether he actually shares the promoted views of Professor Gertziafa, whom you joined in your think tank on pandemic, the promoted views on forced vaccination from the ages of eighteen and over. But at least one anti-constitutional objection would expect, as Minister Ploris quite rightly said, from a party which has been ruling the country for four and a half years to say yes or no. It is precisely this destructive neutrality that enthusiastizes, and Thucydides at the "Principle of Epitaph" talking about individual responsibility and the state, in essence, and judging the fact that we are the only people who are not involved at all in the public, in this case political neutrality, I repeat, in major issues, we do not consider him to be peaceful, but ruthless. Two words on the well-known unconstitutionality, which both Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and, of course, both the Minister for Health and the Vice-President of our Parliament, the objection to the alleged impact of the amendment on the principle of the protection of human value and the principle of the free development of personality, the so-called self-determination. Is it legitimate to restrict a right of individual and under what conditions? Where the restriction is set for the protection of a wider right, such as the right and the protection of public health. And what are the articles of the Constitution, which speak of protecting public health? It's 21(3), 5(5), 5(2). You did not include them, ladies and gentlemen of the Greek Solution, in your objection. And all this, of course, under the umbrella of paragraph 25, that people's rights are guaranteed by the state. So the state, based on the principle of proportionality of paragraph 25(4) of the Constitution, is entitled to claim the fulfilment of the debt of national and social solidarity, which was so little heard in this Chamber. As has already been decided on the mandatory vaccination in the relevant decision of the Council of State on 2387/2020, as it has been thought, since, on the one hand, the valid and substantiated scientific, medical and epidemiological findings are fully implemented, on the other hand, exceptions are adopted - both make them the legislation in question - the provision of compulsory vaccination is not contrary to constitutional provisions, but the principle of suitability, necessity and stricto sensu proportionality is respected in the 25th of the Constitution. After all, those who have succeeded - and I was one of them - to have the authoritarian doctor, Mr Manitakis, obviously heard that he defended the constitutionality of compulsory vaccination at the top of sixty. He was asked to comment on this amendment, he said: 'The freedom of individuals is not affected, particularly when it comes to saving tens of human lives a day'. As far as this fine is concerned, Mr Manitakis says: 'No one can claim that 100 euros are forced, assuming that low wages cannot be met economically, are able to be vaccinated. In this case, the state has exhausted all the measures. He avoided from April and March the entire mandatory vaccination by prejudicing the strategy of persuasiveness and the optional vaccination when the opposition demanded vaccination for the whole population." And since I referred to the persuasion, I would like to say the following. SYRIZA says again about the persuasiveness and comes a few hours ago, before a lector speaks in fact, Mr. Paulakis here is the Step by which to say that those who die are both fully vaccinated and are many. So, is this your contribution to the need for persuasive vaccination, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? If the former Deputy Minister of Health comes out and says, in essence, that it doesn't matter to be vaccinated, since you may die because the vaccinations are dying? Mr Paulakis is unfortunately well known for his views and for his ambiguous messages. The problem isn't with Mr. Polakis. The problem is with Mr Tsipras who keeps a fish silence when these declarations are made. I have heard the truth from the endocrine professor - you know, we in the government and in the New Democracy respect science - say today, on the occasion of your introduction to the EMCDDA, and I shall say, in fact, in any case and without doubt, on the basis of the global day for HIV, that HIV has not been treated with vaccines but with drugs and that pluralism is an appropriate treatment to such pandemics or major phenomena. I would recommend to the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, to Mr Blonde the Parliamentary Representative and former Minister, who spoke of a minimum of consensus and a minimum of understanding, to stop opposing pandemics, to fight human lives, to have this sad exclusiveity in the European Union against dead people. I heard Mr Blonde a moment ago saying that the measures are unfair, that the measures will be ineffective - of course, how ineffective they will be when twenty-five thousand dates for vaccination were closed from yesterday, this will obviously be the case - and to speak of provocative fragmentation and unacceptable measures in relation to compulsoryity. I imagine that Mr Xanthos should address what he said from a step to your colleague and MP Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis, who has already advanced a step further and has said that those who are not vaccinated in the army and the police should be cut off, as is the case with the health workers. Decide, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, because moments are critical. Or the constable or the constable. This ambiguity, this bilingualism, this provocative neutrality in the difficults must finally be stopped here. I'm closing up, ladies and gentlemen, with a very sad news. Today, a 30-year-old colleague of ours died, a daughter of a former colleague, who gave the battle days now to the intensive treatment unit, because, based on her doctor's complaints, people from her surroundings did not let her make the vaccine because she was pregnant. If he had, today he'd be with us. Fortunately, the baby was saved as a few days ago as a caesarean. But she's lost her life and the child won't meet her 30-year-old mother. It was from Serres, my special homeland, which has been mourning since the beginning of the pandemic over five hundred eighty dead. We must therefore all of us who are elected by the vote of the Greek people to do everything we can to stop this black, this sad list and the daily lamentation. It takes responsibility from everyone, from the medical staff, from the church, from us politicians, from all over society. Let the pandemic stop being the subject of a political and opposition humiliation. We have an obligation to protect the citizens of this country beyond parties and colors. We show today, as New Democracy does, of course, in difficult decisions, the difficult, the necessary way with our amendment, which will save thousands of people from being hospitalized and severely ill with the coronary. Let's all stand up to the circumstances. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, too. Good heaven, Virgin Kutmeridou. It's really sad.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u256	No, he didn't say anything to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u257	How'd he not say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u258	He mentioned, but he didn't swear on you. I heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u259	Please...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u260	Don't worry about me. It can't be done. Then they'll have to answer you. Mrs. Arabaji didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u261	He was quoted with hints. Please, Mr. President. We'd be done already.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u262	Here, say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u263	So you said that I said, since you have honoured me with my qualities, that AIDS was treated with medicines and not with vaccines. That's a fact. Science found the way to deal with this disease in this way. And I added: "So, our minds as scientists and as society must be open for every possibility, which can come to us in order to deal with it." Where do you think there's something to do to report it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u264	He didn't say anything, Mr. Marcus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u266	Mrs. Arabaji must answer. I have to give her the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u267	Mr. rapporteur, you are not questioning that you have said so. You said that. You know, however, the timing of what has been said in a political and social context is important. You talked about medical pluralism and practically dried the drugs and not the vaccines. At what time, Professor, when this social division between vaccinated and unvaccinated is taking place? And only the gravity of this time, I'm sorry, with all due respect, should make you remove such reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u268	That's a spaghetti! You can't look...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u269	No, please. It's over, Mr. Marcus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u270	...you're doing a micropolicy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u271	We will take a quick look at the rapporteurs and we will start with the Special Rapporteur of Mera25 Mr Maria Apatzides. Here, Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor for three minutes. Everyone will talk for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u272	Mr President, as far as we are concerned. Secondary is seven and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u273	You want as much as you're entitled? Okay, as long as you're entitled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u274	They are also the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u275	You're right. I know what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is a critical day of turning, on which the government, with the EUR 100 fine for elderly people, resents unconstitutional totalitarianism, authoritarianism and one of the worst forms of social racism, ageism. To impose a fine of EUR 1153/168 per month on the elderly is to be found at the limits of unconstitutionalism or even beyond. Do you really, gentlemen of the government, believe that you will gain the confidence of the hesitant uninvasive citizens with the classly targeted hunger? Do you not know that 100 euros of the fine are a deep class policy? Our old fellow citizens, who are invited to live with a pension of 400 euros, for which you, too, are responsible in the New Democracy, want to be led by your Government to starvation? A hundred euros, in other words a fine, means that they will not be able to buy basic food products, living from the supermarket, that they will no longer be able to pay the bills, so that they will have electricity and water. Are you so alienated from the life of the ordinary people and do you think it is a good way to try to force the uninvasive to pursue your health policy with the pistol of hunger and starvation in the front? Do you understand the injuries that will cause this to the social body? The government's method is to ring sensitive social groups as scapegoats. Previously, target young people, bars and others, today you are targeting the elderly by following even the most detestable ageing. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, racist state violence cannot replace democratic persuasiveness. Merra25, in a sense of fairness to our elderly fellow citizens, has tabled an amendment on a tax issue. The proposed provision regulates the tax treatment of the one-off sums paid and paid to beneficiaries of pensioners or heirs of pensioners in the private or public sector as reimbursements of retroactive pension cuts imposed by Laws 3863 and 3865 of 2010, Laws 3986 and 4002 of 2011, Laws 4093 and 4051 of 2012, which, where applicable, are considered as unconstitutional. In particular, the tax obligation of the beneficiaries is also provided for. It is collected after tax on the one-off sums of the upper cuts at a rate of 20%, including the special solidarity levy under Article 43a of Law No 4172 of 2013 on the amounts already paid without tax under Law No 4714 of 2020, and the 20% tax is levied on the beneficiaries' amending statements, while on the amounts paid henceforth, the tax is withheld before repayment. Any tax instruments, which have already been adopted when this is published for the amounts I have previously said and which have imposed a tax of more than 20%, are amended by decisions of the competent tax authority, while taxes of more than 20% on the higher charges already paid are offset by due or future tax obligations of the beneficiaries. These provisions are necessary for reasons of equal treatment, following the corresponding tax provisions in favour of the special wages made by Article 115(11) of Law No 4549/2018 and Article 84 of Law No 4582/2018, which amended Article 60(4)(b) of Law No 4172/2013. But I return to the critical issue of health. Your hypocrisy is extremely disgraceful that the fines will be put to the strengthening of the ERC. The money, we know very well, where they're going. Yes, already a completely destructive government is preparing a new list of Peica, which currently has EUR 4,960,000 for a campaign for a positive belief and active involvement of citizens in vaccination against the coronary, COVID 19. Your government doesn't care about the more than eighteen thousand deaths. She cares not to be recorded and deaths in the midsts are not projected. Involved in failed policies, the government continues to share state money with its friends, canalarchs, in a communication effort to demonstrate work in dealing with pandemic. Let us note here that Merra25 left the Committee of Inquiry yesterday, which is being conducted without any media owner having been called. At the same time that we are experiencing the worst days of death in the media, yesterday's day found a hundred forty-two heavyly ill patients intubated outside of the ICU. You'll tell me I'm still wrong. Of course, this is in your regular tactics. In every appalling piece of legislation you put together and some provisions in the right direction, as communication bait, dilemma, I don't know how to say it. In this respect, on 1151/166 we shall vote'residents'. The amendment concerns the full inclusion of prescription medicines and laboratory tests for quantification of HIV infection and other tests for the monitoring of HIV infection in the electronic prescription system. Also, Article 7 of the amendment removes the exemption for patients with HIV and hepatitis B infection from the assumption and adoption of children. Here, you find us in agreement. In the rest, however, we have some reservations. As MERA25, we are always on the side of our positive fellow citizens and all the vulnerable groups, and we will now also be for the full protection of their rights and for the improvement of their lives with the help of science, but we draw your attention, for what you enter today, to not just a communication trick, a firework because of the global day against AIDS, but to be applied in full. We will be vigilant about this. As regards Amendment 1150/166, you are giving exceptional financial support to vulnerable pensioners for 2021 and there is an increase in the promotional cash benefits for disabled people and for insecure overages only for December. Although it really is crumbs, which in no way solve their problem and are probably perpetuated by a communication mood, it is certainly better than nothing. It is true that we will support it by pointing out that you are simply trying to "golden the pill" of the unacceptable other measures. However, we are more cautious in Amendment No 1152/167. These are blocks and extensions to health provisions in the context of the government's unsuccessful treatment of pandemic. In this wavelength the amendment brings extensions of provisions and is in any way attempting to draw up doctors and all specialties in the National Health System. For example, they are exempted from the obligation of the rural person who has completed their specialty in order to stay in hospitals. This, though it ensures more doctors in central hospitals, but carries the problem elsewhere, as the whole region will "stick", with simply Greek, by the necessary medical staff. As mentioned, they are amateur patches that are in no way able to solve the real problem. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of the government, it is now clear that you cannot be sanitary to deal with the crisis. You specialize only in media propaganda, repression, social racism and with what is your specialty, you are trying to face a health crisis that needs completely different management. That's what we think of as Mera25. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mrs. Apajidis. The rapporteur has the floor from the Greek Solution, Maria Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr President. Today it seemed clear who voted and what it voted on, what position it took for compulsory vaccination and also how the parties are recommending to press. We heard the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative tell us that it is a constitutional issue, because the more than sixty are burdening the ESS, burdening their health and health of others. The attitude of the vaccinated, however, is the same as that of the protection measures, and indeed with your own encouragement, Minister. Then why are you targeting only the over sixty inconveniences? I'll tell you why. You don't have convincing arguments and you do aggregate the government into spasmist movements that divide. And you know it. Didn't you, Mr. Plearis, like Mr. Kikilias, state publicly about the unconstitutionality of the vaccine? Here, too, we have - not the Parliamentary spokesman, I will table it - when the Council of Europe, in its resolution, said 2361 that the world must be informed that the vaccine is not mandatory. Today we heard what Mrs von der Lyen says, as if we are not in Greece, we are in Germany as a colony, and we do what Mrs von der Lyen tells us, we have no mind and judgment. Under the 1150 amendment, the government grants a pre-election tip for purely communication and voting reasons to vulnerable pensioners with suffocating income and assets criteria, meaning that hundreds of thousands of vulnerable pensioners will be thrown out. The Greek Solution calls on the Government to fully remove these criteria and to grant a regular Christmas gift to all these people. No communication technique of the Government may eradicate the anti-constitutional status of vaccination for persons over sixty years and the submission of an administrative fine of EUR 100 each month. The regulation on the financial support for vulnerable pensioners, Articles 1 and 2, which the Mitsotakis Government brought last night, did not come under the normal procedure, but in the form of an amendment to avoid criticism of the whole anti-population. If you really want to help, why don't you reinforce more? At least those who do not own first home and live in the rent. With increased energy and heating 250 euros look like crumbs. It is a good thing that money is not confiscated and offset by any of their debts. I shall refer to the amendment on the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work, Article 1. Hazardous and unhealthy work benefits are necessary for those who each day put themselves and their health at risk in this regard by doctors and other health workers. But you're the only ones who've been doing this is constantly giving extensions since '15. When will these benefits finally become permanent? How long does this opinion need? Article 2 of this amendment provides that private contracts may be extended for a fixed period of time for the maintenance, feeding and cleaning of the central service and the supervised bodies of the Ministry of Health. Why are contracts simply extended and not unlimited? These people have been covering constant and constant needs for so long. In Article 3, place doctors who are still unskilled to deal with such serious issues. How will they protect themselves and patients with coronary? They haven't even started specialty here, and you're throwing them in this fight. Article 8 provides for the movement and compensation of medical staff with EUR 250 specific skills for 24-hour on-call. Is it possible for people 24 hours and expect them to be able to treat patients? What did you think they were superhuman? It seems from this provision that you are aware of the shortcomings and you are doing absolutely nothing about it. From this provision alone, your hypocrisy is seen when you were applauding your current dedication to the doctors of the ESS. As regards Article 9 on the head of medical service, there is ambiguity as to whether you mean as coordinators and debt coordinators, and for years these posts have been assigned without prior notice. Article 10 gives the possibility of providing medical and mental support to children and adolescents up to eighteen years in digital form. In particular pediatricians and health professionals of the RIS, university hospitals will provide these services after the consent of the parents or whoever is curated by the child. Are we also asking, in our turn, will it only apply to Greeks or to illegal migration flows? The health sector has suffered as much since the beginning of the pandemic and the appearance of this virus as the government has left the health workers helpless, while criminally suspended thousands of medical and nursing personnel who did not accept the vaccine. This has resulted in large gaps and shortcomings in dozens of hospitals and dozens of hospitals, which, of course, also result in many patients not having the health care required. Every day we mourn about a hundred dead. The pandemic reaps even though the conditions were in place to deal with it. We have medicines, vaccinations, experience in handling and managing the disease, long time for organising the system with proper staffing and adequate equipment. The government considered this summer that we ended up with the coronary and instead of strengthening the primary and hospital care system stripped it. As the WTO states, the average health pay is around EUR 900 net. They have long cut the gifts of the holidays and the leave allowance. Instead of applying the right to the doctors of the NSR Decision 431/18 of the NSR. and wages should be increased, instead of the establishment of a permanent health allowance rather than an emergency form, you are giving it as an emergency aid as if they were unsatisfactory. Shame on you! It has been twenty-seven months and the government has still not declared a single post of permanent staff. Isn't that a confession of failure, Minister? As regards the exceptional financial support for vulnerable pensioners in 2021, the Government introduced a new electoral measure, the payment of exceptional financial assistance to low-grade pensioners and those receiving disability benefits. The Government shall put this amendment to the vote at midnight after announcing the imposition of a fine of EUR 100 to the inconsistent for more than sixty years. On the one hand, you are giving emergency aid and on the other hand you are threatening to take it back under the threat of the vaccine. The government a month promises and gives benefits and in the next ten months takes them back from the recipients in any way in duplicate. It shares the money in the form of allowances and exceptional financial aid, while at the same time threatening the same persons by either obliging them to be vaccinated or paid by their low incomes 100 euros as a monthly fine for their refusal. You can undo yourself the same day. Is it therefore worth wondering why the government suddenly cares about this group of citizens by giving them extra financial support, while not changing their earnings during the pandemic? But we all know the answer, because the government on the same day threatened the same people with fines. Finally, on the global day against AIDS, you choose to establish, on the one hand, the adoption by Article 6 of 1151 of the 1151 amendment, the intangible prescribing of their treatments, on the other hand, by Article 7, the adoption - assigning of children from HIV and hepatitis B sufferers. As far as their full integration into intangible prescribing is concerned, we consider it to be in the right direction as discrimination is abolished. However, we cannot be vigilant as this time the children to be adopted are at risk of being affected by these diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, too. The rapporteur for the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. Look. I may have been a little strict earlier, or rather have raised my voice by claiming time, but they are four amendments, in fact I shall be speaking for the two.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u281	I didn't say you weren't right to God. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u282	I will repeat something that we have been repeating for years. In the way in which the amendments come, and we are being called upon to vote against, our vote is being altered, because there are articles on amendments which we could vote on if they were separate from others, for which there is a vote that we must vote in a particular way, so we have decided that it should be reflected in the whole of the amendment. Whenever we wanted to be positive about a measure, the negative vote is reflected. We therefore ask and claim that we have the time to be able to place ourselves as quickly as possible for every article of the amendments, which at least we appreciate when we want to be placed. I shall now proceed directly to the first amendment number 1150, which provides for the strengthening of vulnerable pensioners and small and medium-sized enterprises. First of all, the provision of EUR 250, not to be fooled, concerns a very small part of both HEIs and pensioners or potential pensioners. Do criteria be introduced for what? To identify the provision with the criterion of the fully impoverished. It is a mockery of the Government's argument that this one-off amount will deal with the wave of accuracy. This is not going to deal with the wave of accuracy or the month of its payment and much longer for the next period. Indeed, on the occasion of the debate or, if you like, the development of this amendment by Mr Hatzidakis, our Parliamentary representative specifically asked him about the two amendments tabled by the Communist Party, which concerned the reintroduction of the tenth, fourteenth and fourteenth wages with the corresponding gifts, etc. The second concerns the reintroduction of minimum wages. What was the Minister's answer? Let one argument be heard. Who was she? With a ruthless approach to our parliamentary representative and to our parliamentary group, it has even come to misery to say that the Communist Party wants the world to be poor. But I beg your pardon, what kind of mind, so to speak, seeing this amendment would not say that yes, it contributes to alleviating problems of retired or working people? And what government is he talking about? The government that, when ruling again with PASOK and later SYRIZA reached all this world and pensioners in impoverishment. You took them, as comrade Christos Katsotis, Carvellas, throw them a crust of 250 euros and be happy, you tell them. Oh, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. The billions you've cut off from pensions? The cuts have reached up to 40% and 50%, which are money worked for thirty, forty years from all this world that you have cut all these years. Therefore, not only is he courageous, but we are turning him into Mr Hatzidakis, because in practice he has proved himself with his political contribution and as Minister, but also as a member of the government today that he also raised his hand and voted for all the commemorative laws and all the labour, anti-linguistic laws and among them, of course, and among those who provided for the savage pensions steadfast. I now come to Amendment No 1151 with a special number of 166. This is a package of regulations on medicines, which seeks to effectively reduce state spending and increase patient participation. Article 1. Closed budgets, i.e. a limit on inadequate government spending, even with the introduction of new medicines, which in practice have led to a further increase in patient participation. We will vote against it if it were separated as an article. Article 2. We will also vote against it. Restriction of prescribing to uninsured persons is introduced. In practice it will make it more difficult for these people even more difficult, since in subscribed and completely absent public health establishments, even a simple prescribing will be a matter for patients. Article 3. The proportions of patients taking part in the extra-surface expenditure of 25%, 10%, 0%. The percentages which we say will be borne by patients with huge sums of money on the medicines market relate to the so-called insurance price, which is lower than the retail price and the difference is paid by the insured person. Thus, even at 0%, the patient may pay for buying medicines. Article 4. Sets the drug response from the positive list on the negative list, i.e. pays patients 100% of the cost of medicines, in order to revalorise medicines not to burden the budgetary target. Article 5, for the composition of the Negotiation Committee, a mechanism which, in addition to the percentages of patient participation in the insurance, will also set additional amounts to be paid by patients for the difference resulting from the insurance against the retail price of medicines. We are also voting against this. In the other two articles, Articles 6 and 7, which could have been treated differently, you do not give us the opportunity and we shall vote as a whole. As far as Amendment No 1152 is concerned and the first and second paragraphs would not be negative, but you do not allow us to do so again. As far as the whole of the amendment is concerned, we do, in our opinion, have the vote on the other articles which are 'in the same way' and we will also be going to 'in' in this amendment. Basic arrangements that lead us to this are Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, - 7 and 9 if they were separated we would go to'residences' - 8 as well as 10. Basic regulations concern ballast measures to deal with shortages in medical staff in public hospitals. Its direction is based on parttime employment, mobility and prolongation of working life. The case of recruitment of permanent staff is outside the government's policy. These measures, which are described in the amendment, correspond to the unequivocal assessment by the Government that public health units should not be loaded with personnel who, after the pandemic, will not need to be loaded, while those shortcomings, which exist, were evident even before the pandemic, have now taken physical explosive proportions. In fact, the government has given priority to ensuring that the costs of the operating costs of public health units are cut down as a matter of priority. In addition, the Government is making use of the disastrous situation, which it has put together in the public health units by promoting measures and looking at the future of the even more commercialised and business criteria of the so-called new ESS. Indeed, against the argument that there are no qualified doctors to hire the others, the answer is that dealing with patients in the pandemic needs experienced specialists. This is what there is and there are in the big health businesses, which must be dictated, without compensation to the owners, and put to state planning. Do it. You don't. You only negotiate the rates of compensation for the large groups. I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. Our Parliamentary spokesman and I, as well as my companion Christos Katsotis, were also placed. We will go to the 'against' in this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, too. Andreas Poulas, rapporteur for the Change Movement, to whom we wish many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the remaining, Minister, although we have repeatedly stressed the bad practice of the amendments, you insist there by showing parliamentary power. We must now go to the essence of the amendments. As far as the first amendment is concerned, Amendment No 1150, which introduces, on the one hand, exceptional financial support for vulnerable pensioners for November 2021, paid up up to EUR 31-12-2021, unrestricted incorporation of EUR 250 and, on the other, the increase in pre-private cash benefits for disabled people and uninsured older people for the month of December 2021, we consider that these benefits are positive but incomplete and ashesy in the eyes of citizens. According to the explanatory statement, the beneficiaries of the low pensioners are about eight hundred thousand, while the total expenditure for both the exceptional assistance of pensioners and the increase in the pro-active benefits for disabled and uninsured elderly people is estimated by the State's General Accounting Office at EUR 310 million. However, the country's pensioners with a pension of up to EUR 500, with an average of about EUR 370, are about one million, that is, three hundred thousand low pensioners will be deprived of the emergency aid. However, we stress that the pension policy as a whole needs to be reviewed in order to increase pensions on a permanent basis. To this day, the government has only made patches to the well-known and law of Katrugalou. Therefore, we need to look at the whole issue, nationally and in combination with the issue of fertility and the adoption of specific policies that encourage births. In the second amendment, 1151, the Government supplements the levels of annual budgets for pharmacy and amends paragraph 2 of Article 87 of Law 4472. The first part of the question is that the Government is properly concerned with the retention of pharmaceutical expenditure. However, the measures taken are of a fragmentary nature. It needs a long-term drug strategy which will be defined after national dialogue and which will have the status of the long-term and national objectives. Why should we not forget in 2004-2009 that budgetary derailment was due to the derailment of pharmaceutical expenditure. In any case, any measures decided should not affect the entry of innovative and modern medicinal products into the Greek market. The quality of the treatments provided must not be affected, especially those who have long been suffering. The same amendment provides for the prescribing of medicinal products for therapeutic acts and diagnostic tests for uninsured and vulnerable social groups by doctors from the ESS and public health care structures exclusively. As I said to you in committee, Minister, for the implementation of this provision, it would be reasonable and appropriate to wait a period of a few months for it not to be implemented immediately. Otherwise you will create new unbearable pressure on public hospitals, which have undertaken the exclusive health management of the CIVID incidents. Not only will they be forced even more, but it will also be harmful for virus dispersal. For these reasons it would be appropriate to extend the measure. The same amendment introduces 25% of the priced value of the medicinal product for the participation of insured and retired persons in the social security institutions and the 'Having House' and also introduces a review of the prices of medicinal products, introducing incentives to move from a positive to the negative list of medicinal products in Article 12 of Law 3816/2010 and to provide for different pricing criteria. All that I told you who's hitting you? The small, the small, the small, the vulnerable. That's what you show your face. It has to change. We must not have the vulnerable constantly targeted by your Government. Incorporate fully the prescription for antiretroviral medicines and laboratory tests into the electronic prescribing of HIV patients and allow the child to be taken up in patients with HIV and hepatitis B, provisions that we see positive. With regard to the third amendment, an extension is granted for the completion of the final proposal for the inclusion of the professions in heavy and unhealthy, the submission of the final opinion as 31-11-2021. What, however, will happen with the suggestion from 18-12-2020, which has been tabled for the inclusion of health in heavy and unhealthy health? What is the timetable for the completion of the relevant procedures? Health workers are waiting as a minimum recognition of the over-representation they have paid throughout the pandemic period. Finally, you must respond to their demand that is both fair and socially acceptable. We then agree with the extension of fixed-term private-law contracts for staff serving at the central agency and the supervised bodies of the Ministry of Health for the preservation, feeding and cleaning of up to 31-32022. But here we find a gap in your policy. And what does your policy say? You let the operators make either one competition or awards for the contractors. What is your position on this matter? It's very serious, I believe. As far as the rest is concerned, I would like to focus on the issue of the EUR 250 which pays compensation for the daily work of ESS doctors in anesthetic, pathology, general medical, pneumonology, tuberculology or the holder of an intensive medical certificate and, in exceptional cases, doctors of any other specialty moving in hospitals of the same and the other health region. I understand that these incentives must be given. But on the other hand, right now, we're only talking about doctors. The rest of the staff who serve in the hospital called nurses, called paramedical staff, these people who have taken them into employment with the four thousand OAEDs, who take hunger wages, for these people aren't we going to say anything? Aren't we gonna give them something? We gave them a bonus and we say it all right? Should we not, then, see the payroll in these people? To close to saying in the last amendment, 1153, concerning compulsory vaccination of more than sixty until 16 January 2022 and the fine, which you put EUR 100 per month. In my prototype, Minister, I said that it was moving in the right direction. However, it is not a good provision, but you have made it necessary, because you have failed to convince yourself, to the extent that we had to convince our inconveniences and our skeptical fellow citizens. Do you want to tell us that you have exhausted all the margins and all the positive measures you could bring in in order to get people to be vaccinated? We do not think that you did. You went directly to the imposition of negative measures, which acts negatively in the psychology of the citizens. We shouldn't have gotten to this situation, but you led us here. There is a lack of information from reliable and recognised scientists. There's an update deficit from the press channels. There is a lack of credibility in your overall management of the pandemic with contradictory messages and regressions. A while ago, didn't you say you wouldn't impose the mandatory vaccination? You have not answered them yet, and no obligation can cover your responsibilities. You're paying him the bill of your frugality. We therefore insist on the need to give even now more positive incentives, as has been done in other countries, which have higher vaccination rates. We do not want to give an alibi to the government and the well-beingrs, who will rush to blur our political message. Despite our objections, we are voting for the provision. Our firm position is 'in favour' of vaccination. We're inoculated because we care. Thank you very much, Mr President, and tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u285	Be well, Mr. Poula. And we will close with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasio Ljupi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate focused, above all, on the general state of public health and the management of the health crisis. Mortality was persistently requested outside the ICM. The Minister said it. We've always had pierced off-site. All doctors know about it. No mortality can be measured outside the ICU, because at some point these sick will enter a ICU bed either in the same hospital or in another hospital and whatever developments occur, will be counted there. Moreover, they are generally under the supervision of MDG doctors or anestheticists. Another sounded, "thirty-five candidates of pathology for a place in a hospital in Athens". Does anyone think the other thirty-four why don't we take them into the system, since we don't have doctors? It's not like that, though. If you ask to come to Athens to another place in a hospital, most of them may accept, but when you don't need it in Athens and tell about the province or a hospital in the region there probably the result will be quite different, that is, no one will agree to go. What's the X-ray of these doctors, the candidates? They are usually subsidiary, who are already in the system either in Athens or in the region. He may be a private person who wants to enter the health system or may be some who resigned from their positions in a regional hospital to come to Athens. In other words, from what we have seen from the last three notices, Mr Minister, there are unfortunately no new doctors in the system. And why don't these doctors go to the district? They don't go because they're at the age of thirty - five to forty years old, they have family, the money isn't enough. It is therefore time to look for a new health payroll. I agree with the proposal on heavy and unhealthy health to sanitary workers. With regard to the other issue of automatic post notices, which was heard by Mr Xanthos, this law was already in force and it was not in his day. Now with the coronary again, it's going to happen, Minister, when we get through this pandemic. It was also heard by Mr. Xanthos that we were closing the eye on the vaccinated. I don't think so. You don't have to. They have all rights. What we want is to get those rights and others. Especially on the issue of days, namely the introduction of compulsory vaccination for over sixty, it was particularly informative that the Prime Minister's position was earlier today at noon. The Prime Minister made it clear that this political choice is the last point since we have exhausted all the other options and especially the information campaign for the whole population. Of the over sixty, however, there is a relative reluctance, as shown by the entries for vaccination. The aim is therefore to ensure and prevent this particularly vulnerable age group, with high rates of coronary death. If the target is achieved, many lives will be saved. This initiative is being taken today because we are at a dangerous point of time before we have to deal with the new 'Nomicon' mutation. The early data so far show that this campaign has started to perform since the first day, since more than twenty thousand dates, as we have heard, have so far been closed against the two thousand six hundred in the past few days. These numbers correspond to human lives that are protected and are likely to be saved. I would also like to refer to a number of issues raised by colleagues in opposition. First of all, I have heard the self-evident view of the anti-population initiative taken by the government in relation to our fellow human beings with HIV or hepatitis B in the direction of facilitating them by electronic and intangible prescribing and the possibility of becoming fostering parents. Now, in relation to your comment, Mr Marcu, on the treatment of AIDS, that it was based on medication and not vaccination, I am sure in your capacity that you naturally did not imply the same for the coronary. Unfortunately, in the case of HIV, chronic studies did not produce the polypositive vaccine, and that is why it seems that the multiple mutations made by this virus seem to be responsible. However, the use of vaccines and medicines is quite different. Vaccines work preventively and protectively, while drugs come to treat someone who is already in the hospital. We are therefore very lucky that in the case of the coronary we have at our disposal safe and efficient vaccines that protect us. Two words for some of the other very important amendments. The Prime Minister's commitment is to grant a one-off payment of EUR 32,50 for all low-pensioners, uninsured over-ages and disabled persons or for parents with disabilities. This is a pro-active initiative towards supporting weak social and economic citizens. Secondly, the following trading criteria are introduced for pricing or issuing the costs of medicinal products: the amount of claw back and rebate for any medicinal product, its sales volume in other Member States of the European Union, the sales prices in the rest of the European Union and, fourthly, the end of its period of protection. These are regulations aimed at rationalising the pharmaceutical expenditure. With regard to the unmistakable object of today's bill, two remarks on this, which were heard by the Qualified Opposition. First of all, SYRIZA's rapporteur admitted that EKPY, founded by SYRIZA in '17, failed to deal with two time-consuming problems in health supplies, the objectively great cost and corruption. The current draft law aims at specific corrective actions to create a transparent procurement system by limiting direct markets and strengthening racing processes. However, competitive processes are now being completed more quickly and central supplies are being made for all hospitals and health structures in favour of the costs and quality of the product that reach the patients. Secondly, the Anti-Population side underestimated the possibility that the new EACH will make use of money from the Recovery Fund. Let us stress that the Ministry of Health has money to manage at a level of one and a half billion. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. It is therefore essential that there should be a body that moves quickly, efficiently and transparently to implement the Fund's projects. The new EMRP aspires to be exploited in this direction and this role is not at all negligible. In conclusion, we can only recognise that the pandemic crisis has forced us to be constantly in front of dilemmas and difficult choices. It is not easy within these unprecedented data to always agree on. We can, however, agree that we put human life above all, that we support without asterisks the vaccination process and above all any party disputes. It is time to unite against the common purpose, to respond with a high sense of responsibility for protecting the life and health of citizens. I therefore call on all of Parliament's groups to contribute to this effort and to vote in favour of today's bill as a whole and the amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr. Lippe. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Recommendation and organisation of a legal person under private law under the name "National Central Authority for Health Procurement", a strategy for centralised procurement of products and health services". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of twenty-three articles, of four amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u288	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u289	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u290	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Recommendation and organisation of a legal person under private law under the name ‘National Central Authority for Health Supplies’, the strategy for centralised procurement of products and health services and other emergency provisions on public health and social welfare’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u291	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u292	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-01-S1-commons.u293	With the consent of the House at 20.33' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, December 2, 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
