ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 17-2-2021 authorisation, the minutes of the IGC of Wednesday 17 February 2021 concerning the vote on all draft laws: 1) ‘Integration into the national legislation of Directive (EU) 2010/13 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2010 on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services, as amended by Directive (EU) 2018/1808 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 and other provisions on the competence of the General Secretariat for Communication and Information’ and 2) ‘Missionary, matters of human resources of the Independent Public Revenue Authority and other urgent provisions’ were ratified.]] Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 22 February 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 413/10-2-2021, a topical question by MP B1' North Athens Section of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Katrugalos to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "Why is the debate in the House delaying the legislative proposal on the compliance of Greece with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights (E.D.).(')'.'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 410/9-2-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on "Is there any plans to develop a National Defence Industry? Why are Greek Defence Systems (NS) denounced?’ 3. The Question No 407/8-2-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The serious problems of the General Hospital of Chania Crete". 4. Under No 419/12-2-2021, a topical question by MP I Eastern Attica, Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzidis, Minister for Health, on the subject: "Nurse Hospital needs to be used." B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 416/12-2-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Perhaps at last for the unemployed". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 426/14-2-2021 of the Member of the Argolis of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘Primary Care for Health and vaccination’. 3. The question by No 432/15-2-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP I Athens Garyfallias (Liana) Kanelles to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Problems due to the submissiveness of the Pathologist Lab of the Hospital of Agios Savvas". 4. The question under number 423/14-2-2021 is a timely question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Extortion, intimidation and vengeance towards "heroes" doctors who denounce reality in Rethymnon, Kilkis, Edessa, Giannitsa and Saint Savva." 5. Under number 417/12-2-2021, a timely question by MP I of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “Who is running schools? The Ministry of Education, Racism and intolerance;’. 6. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis with reference to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Strengthening the agony of workers in Scaramaga Shipyards'. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by number 436/15-2-2021 of the F' Vice President of Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To re-enter the cleanliness of the University of Thessaly and to cover the necessary cleaning and storage staff with permanent staff". 8. The question under number 425/14-2-2021 was raised by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Indirect elections to promote management boards of parent and guardian associations in primary and secondary education." 9. Under number 418/12-2-2021, a timely question by MP Chania of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Paul Pavlakis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Illegally the proposal to appoint Mr. Rock as President of the National Medical Helped Reproduction Authority". 10. The question raised by Mr Constantine (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Health on the subject: 'The priorityisation of vulnerable groups in the process of vaccination against COVID -19'. 11. The Question No 434/15-2-2021 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, entitled "The Opening of the Universities". 12. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis at the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs under the number 435/15-2-2021 is a topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Support of a second chance for lost debt arrangements to be lost to the insurance funds'. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question by No 442/15-2-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The special schools and safe conditions of their operation." 14. Observed. The question by number 440/15-2-2021 of Mr Kegeroglou's MP, on the subject: “When will you finally convene the Social Security Council (S.A.)? on the conclusion on behalf of the European Community on the serious and unhealthy occupations which have been submitted since December?' 15. The question by number 444/15-2-2021 of the F' Vice President of Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The problems in the Primary Care for Health at Larissa". 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The question by number 443/15-2-2021 of the Member of Parliament Argolidas of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Personal shortages in the two Hospitals of Argolida". 17. The question asked by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Expansion of PSH 1/2018 of cleaning staff at the Ministry of Finance and ASE and conversion of contracts in indefinite time". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 2957/28-12-20 asked by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambos (Maris) Mamoulakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The upgrading of the Environment Inspectorate". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 2433/7-12-20 asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Unjust and unequal treatment of those affected in Crete." 3. The number 1636/353/11-11-2020 question and application for the submission of documents by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Recording of the needs and the necessary equipment for the implementation of the Modern Distance Education of Secondary Education Students in Central Greece". 4. The question and application under number 3090/434/7-1-2021 of the SYRIZA MP's documents - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "What results of the government's choice to cancel the forest maps and reform them from the beginning?" Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the following: Today, Friday, 19 February 2021, fourteen topical questions will be discussed. There will be no debate on two topical questions. The one that will not be discussed after consultation is the second question raised by number 408/8-2-2021 of the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Athanasias (Syria) Anagnostopoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Resigning the artistic director of the National Theatre". Also, the second question under number 429/15-2-2021 of the SYRIZA MP Florina - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The Municipal Mono-Participating Anonymities OTAs do not fall under the public procurement law?' will not be discussed due to a blockade by parliament. The first two questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr Stylianos Petsas. So we will now begin with the third under No 412/9-2-2021 timely question by the First Cycle of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kaminas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'Transfer of cemetery competence and increases in the end of rituals'. Mr Kamine, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, congratulations first of all on your appointment, even late. Minister, with one of the last laws, it may have been the last to suggest that Mr Theodorikos as Minister of the Interior, with Article 56, a law was repealed which had been passed by Prime Minister Konstantinos Karamanlis with the Minister at the time George Rally and which established that the administration and management of the non-ordinary temples that are in the cemeteries are now taken over by the municipalities, who will also receive the revenue of these temples, are fully maintained and paid for by their staff. This law was in force, as I said, until the time when the law introduced by Mr Theodorikos and henceforth the revenue of these temples passed to local metropolitans. The regulation generally concerns temples located in cemeteries with a population of more than fifty thousand, including the capital. We were informed, therefore, that funeral expenses were up by 150 euros, increased by the Archdiocese of Athens. There have been protests about moving this exit into the citizens' backs and I would like to ask you two things. The first is the revenue received by the municipalities in 2019-2020 from the rituals in these temples. And the second is if you are thinking of putting some way out at the ends collected by local metropolitans from these ritual revenues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Kamine, for the question. You give me a chance to say two things. The first is about the revenue you ask to see, which the municipalities had in the previous years, in 2019 and 2020, by the execution of riots. According to the Directorate-General for Home Affairs, the ‘Court of Certifications’ code shows that the net fees received by the municipalities from the conduct of cemeteries in cemetery churches amounted to EUR 827,596 for 2019 and EUR 628,647 for 2020. This is obviously some revenue lost by the municipalities and naturally transferred after the provision of Law 4735 to the jurisdiction of the Church. With regard to the issues of ritual charges, there are some issues regulated by Law 4735, the issues of the administration and management of non-border orthodox temples within the cemeteries. In particular, the collection of fees or rights by the TAs and their legal persons for rituals carried out by religious officials within cemeteries shall be prohibited. Therefore, the Ministry of Interior is not legitimate to set any regulatory framework for the service charges in these cemetery temples. Therefore, the question of the limit for the adjustment of these fees by the Church is not something that is within the competence of the Ministry of Interior at the moment. But I hear what you are suggesting, Mr Papoutsis, on the question of whether there is a great increase or something else and I will come back after a debate with the Church of Greece. I am also open to any issue that can be raised by the CEDEFOP on this issue and, in particular, with regard to the replacement of their revenue and I will be able to say a few words about it in the second instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Make a little correction. It was an increase of 150%, which you understand is an overweight burden, which the ceremonies pay and the move naturally to the shoulders of the dead. The coincidence brought it this way, Mr. Secretary, so that I could be in Dreasia yesterday. In particular, I went to Agios Stefanos, the Town Hall of Agios Stephanos and Dionysus and saw the situation there. I also discussed with the mayor. You're also a local resident if I'm not mistaken. So you yourself, as a resident in the region, experience the drama experienced by all residents there, with the interruption of electricity, which in many cases is a water cut. We are now coming to this matter of your competence, that of confusing the responsibilities between the various levels of self-government and those of the state. And we saw the implosion with the DEDENE and the responsibility for cutting down the trees that are close to electric wires. Mr. Theodorikos had set up a committee under the chairmanship of the Professor of Constitutional Law Mr. Xenophonta Kontiadis. This committee has worked for a long time on the very clarification of responsibilities. And what we are saying is clarification of competences, should normally result in a reform, especially from a government which is affected by the fact that the reforms are at the top of the country's agenda, reforms aimed at normal decentralisation in that country, which means, at least, the transfer of the Real Estate Tax - as if we call it PSF, HSF, etc., in any case, the property tax - as the same income of the municipalities, which the municipalities will manage, and this management will now make the municipal authority responsible for the level of taxation that it imposes on them and for the services it will render, which will no longer be limited to rewarding. This committee, or rather its work, has vanished. No one knows what happened to her work. He did not give a verdict, and knowing Mr Contiadis' labour, I am in a position to confirm that he has worked very diligently. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because the issue that we are discussing today is one of the minors, let us say, issues that fall under this confusion of competence between the institutions of the State or the central state itself and the bodies of local government, it is a good opportunity to respond here to what you intend to do with the conclusion of the Continental Committee or, in any case, with the work that it has completed, until it is effectively extinguished and if you intend to continue or rather undertake a real reform for the administrative decentralisation of the country. I shall conclude, Mr President. It's not enough to talk about a state at last. A state underneath must have soldiers and key soldiers or even an effective instrument very often, in a modern state, it is local government. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Kamine. Yes, I'm also a local resident, and the area that I live is perhaps one of the last ones that has not been powered this morning. And that is an important issue, as everyone sees, because along with the current is heating and many times water supply, as you said, Mr Kamine. Last night, along with Mr Skreka, the Minister for the Environment and Energy, and with the efforts of the TEDDIE, the Firefighting, the municipality, of course, of all the stakeholders, we managed to give power to many areas that were not in the area until last night. As regards the issue you raised about your visit to the city hall, I would like to make a reference. There was a reference to your announcement by KINAL yesterday that there was a delay in declaring the Municipality of Dionysus in an emergency. I want to inform everyone on this occasion that the same day that the request was made and approved on Tuesday by the mayor. The issue was raised at the coordinating meeting under the Prime Minister at 11 a.m. and was directed so that both the Region and the General Secretariat for Civil Protection within the day would proceed to the process of declaring the municipality in an emergency so that it could respond more quickly to abstractions, cutting the trees and all the work needed to enable damage to be recovered. As regards the issue you raise about the Cologne Committee, there is no official conclusion of the committee. There is, of course, the very important work of Mr Contiadis himself. There is no conclusion from the committee, because there were many members in this committee and they seem to have had no common responsibility. What are we gonna do? Already since the Prime Minister's visit to the Ministry of Interior after the change of political leadership we have committed ourselves that the first institutional initiatives of the Ministry of Interior are: Firstly, the new electoral law for OTAs, which is that my information will be put into public consultation by the Government Secretariat and today, so that it can quickly come to the House to consider and vote, as I hope. The second piece of legislation will be the clearing of responsibilities. Within the clearing of the responsibilities of a state, a decentralised district, a municipality is a subset of what arouses us in these days, who has responsibility, responsibility, deforestation, deforestation in general, so that there is a situation of such a situation that is not always a source of danger, either by snow or by fire. I would like to inform you that this process will be initiated immediately with both the EIA and the CEDEFOP, and with individuals who have handled this issue, but also with the experience that exists in municipalities such as, for example, the Municipality of Athens - and you, of course, have passed through the Municipality of Athens and the President - so that we can see what has been done in urban areas, but also in other areas, in order to have a rapid effect at least on the issue of the clearing of responsibilities. I am also given the opportunity to say that there is still one issue relating to what I said at the beginning, the revenues of the municipalities. The CAP has been greatly reduced in the last ten years of the crisis that has taken us. They have decreased very much both at regional and municipal level. I am also committed to the CEEC's Board of Directors, but also to all my public positions that 2022 will be a year of discussion and reform of the CFP. My intention at least, which I have expressed to the Prime Minister and to visits from all over Greece, is that, together with the reform of the CAP, there should be a serious debate on the transfer of property tax, but also on the enlargement of the CAP, so that the municipality and the region can respond to modern needs. It will therefore be a year for this debate to come to an end in 2023, which will be an election year for municipalities and regions, to be able to call for the mayors and regional leaders to know what budget they have in their hands and what projects they can carry out. So we will have the opportunity to discuss this again coordinately and structuredly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u9	We move to the fourth with number 430/15.2.2021 timely question for the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Yiannis Delis, on the subject: "Mixed water in the country's settlement in Samothraki". Mr. Delis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, there is a very serious problem in Samothraki, namely the supply of water to the country in Samothraki. Ten days now, there's no water for people there. And we're talking about an island that's full of sources, about an island where water is abundant and those who have gone there remember, of course, both the depths and the waterfalls, the waters in general that exist on this island. It is ironic, then, on such an island, with so much water, that people cannot have water. What now, Minister? Following the occurrence of gastroenteritis in Samothraki, the competent department of Health of the Regional Unit of Evros performed samples of water used in consumption. The relevant microbiological analyses showed that the results were outside the limits, i.e. the values laid down in the relevant legislation. In other words, the laboratory check, Minister, confirmed the inappropriateness of water, not to mention the risk. This led the region to make a decision on 9 February, just ten days ago, calling on the Samothrakiians to stop the water supply from the water supply network, as well as the use of this water in cooking and even personal hygiene. This decision has still been in force for ten days and will, of course, be valid until the final elimination of the problem - you understand that we cannot play - when the values of microbiological analyses have been stabilised, after repeated analyses, within the prescribed limits. We have tabled this question, Minister, to ask you the following questions: Firstly, what will your Ministry and the State Mechanism do in general so that they can be identified, in principle, and, of course, the causes of the problem are removed so that it will not be repeated? Secondly, what are you going to do to provide, with central public resources, a permanent and definitive solution, at last, to the water supply of the island in particular, of Samothraki, but also of the whole country? Will a modern water supply system be created which needs this island so much as other areas in our country? Thirdly, what are you going to do to strengthen the municipality of Samothrace with the necessary permanent staff and the specialties it needs so that it can provide the necessary services to the inhabitants of the island? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u11	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Delis, for your question. I understand that you raise two issues. One issue is financial for the other staff. On the issues of natural disasters and not only, we have tried to help the municipality of Samothrace in various ways. Firstly, from the SAE-055 programme of the Ministry of Interior's Public Investment Programme and in particular from the water shortage programme, the municipality has been awarded EUR 920,000 and payments have so far reached 90% of the total amount. So there has been one absorption in recent years for this purpose. Secondly, the municipality has been awarded an amount of 3,370,000 via the "Antonis Tritsis" programme for the project "Procurement, installation and entry into service of a remote control system - remote control and detection of leakages of the water supply systems of the municipality of Samothrakis and replacement of an internal water supply network of Camariotissa Municipality of Samothrakis". Thirdly, we have the special support programme for municipalities called "PHILOPOS II" aimed at strengthening the balanced development of the municipalities of the country and improving their infrastructure. Under this grant, the Municipality of Samothrace was financed with the amount of EUR 169,200. Fourthly, we have the annual CFPs. For the Municipality of Samothrace, the amount of EUR 82,890 is planned to be allocated from the autonomous resources of 2021 to cover project and investment costs. Based on the amounts, the municipality had been financed and the previous year. This is money that the municipality of Samothrace already has. And we have an extra financial instrument. The call for expressions of interest to the AT01 programme, entitled ‘water infrastructure’, is presented through the programme. In the context of this call, municipalities and regions, municipal water and sewerage companies and the water links of the country are able to submit proposals in order to be integrated into the "ITIS Axis" programme on the "Environment" Priority Axis and incorporate relevant actions and projects into it. The total budget of the invitation is EUR 300,000 000, and the operators are able to submit requests by 31 March 2021. With regard to staff issues, which is the second part of your question, especially to cover vacant posts of regular staff, two regular posts have already been approved for the Municipality of Samothraki, one IC position of Hydraulic and one IC position of Project Machiner, in accordance with the relevant requests made to the Ministry of Interior in the programming of regular staff for the years 2020 and 2021. They are expected to be sent to the AACC for the issue of the relevant notice. The municipality of Samothraki has also submitted a request for 2020, which involved two temporary water service posts, which was fully satisfied by a specific decision, in this case on 49918/5-8-2020 by the Ministry of Interior. This covered the emergency needs requested by the municipality of Samothrace. At your disposal for any clarification during dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u14	Minister, you did not reply, of course, to the first part of the question in relation to the inappropriateness of the water of Samothrace, which is, if you like, the issue of peaks on the island today and concerns the people who live there. We hope you do it in your dentistry. First of all, what we want to tell you is that everything needs to be done and in relation to the controls which must be repeated so that when we reach the conclusion of the suitability of water there is no question and the suitability of water is guaranteed. You understand - as we have said - we cannot play with people's health. We have to do - as we have said - strict and continuous controls, we have to chlorine, everything that needs to be done in relation to the island's water so that people are fearlessly able to use it. What we want to tell you in relation to this particular problem - I will come to what you said - is that we have heard the Mayor of Samothrakis in an interview with the State TV, bring the problem to bear on the heavy rainfalls of the last period, the damage suffered by the water supply network from last September's theories. Unfortunately, the theories love Samothrace very much. In 2017 there was a very great disaster on the island. In fact, the mayor himself in this interview said that some of these damages remained for a long time without being repaired because there was not exactly that proper staff to repair them, as he said, the municipal water service has only one worker. Of course, the fact that the municipalities are under-represented and do not have the appropriate staff responsibilities also bear the vast majority of the mayors, who are moving within the same policy as governments and do not claim what they have to claim to function properly and to the benefit of the municipalities. They therefore do not claim neither the staff nor the funds. Of course, the central responsibility lies with the central government, which, as you can see, these issues, the issues of water resources, are dealt with in a very specific way. Water - like all things - is treated as a merchandise, especially drinking water, in order to operate there large companies, large companies, to win. And if you wish, and also in the debate that has taken place a moment ago with Mr Kamine, it is not so, in our view, Mr Minister, that the services of the state mechanism are overlapping. There's that, too. The main problem, in our view, is the question of the orientation of the state mechanism and its priorities. It does not have these as priorities and that is why we live what we live and that is why the people who live in Eastern Attica have their problems. So we are talking about Samothraki, Minister, an island which has been afflicted - as we have said - by the floods of 2017. It was found very badly, with infrastructure that actually came out knockout, and the drainage infrastructure and the road network of the island, with problems in its transportation, with problems in medical coverage. We had made less than a year ago a question about the lack of a pediatrician on the island. And of course, the central problem manifested on this island is in the small municipality of the island. There are, of course, also in the large municipalities. Most of the small towns are abandoned, however, they are under-represented even more than large ones, without means, without personnel, technical services essentially nonexistent. And I don't know exactly what problems a man will solve in Samothraki, as you said a moment ago. I repeat, the burning issue right now for the island is the restoration of water supply. People can't live with bottled water alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u15	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u16	You have raised many issues concerning the treatment of natural disasters for years on the island of Samothraki. Because many words are poverty, and I do not want to talk about what we intend to do, I will say what we are doing. We had also discussed the problem of disasters in the Regional Unity of Evros last time and I will present in the minutes the press release on the actions we have taken following my visit to the Regional Unit of Evros to deal with the floods on 12 January and 1 February 2021. In this case, EUR 1,300 000 was adopted and allocated. In the Regional Unit of Evros EUR 210,000, in the Municipality of Alexandroupolis EUR 500,000, in the Municipality of Souflis EUR 300,000, in the Municipality of Dubotech of 200,000 euros and in the Municipality of Orestiada of 90,000 euros as the first relief amounts - let us say so - and then cooperation with the municipalities and the region in order to see what else we can do next by applying the 'Janue' type-approval - so that we can coordinatedly get the best deal possible. When I visit Samothraki soon I will be able to tell you exactly what should be done and what other issues you raise. Since 2015, in 2017, there have been requests pending to address natural disasters, but there has been no absorption. All of this we'll see in the field so we know what we can do. At the moment, what matters is the restoration, as you said, of the issue of drinking water. This is the work of many people to be done and we will be able to say something more in the next few days. It is not my point to say when water will be suitable for water, at least for drinking water. What matters is with the mayor, the Vice-President and the district manager to find permanent solutions. And in permanent solutions is perhaps the first time after many years we have had financial instruments in our hands to deal with issues of water supply, water shortages and issues relating to infrastructure and you will see it in the next period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u17	Now we are going to the second under number 3133/8-1-2021 of the petitions by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Educational Aviation Center in Kalamata". The Minister of National Defence Mr. Nicos Panagiotopoulos will answer. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the aim of my question in the context of the credible and effective opposition we are seeking is to answer questions raised in the previous period public and, of course, questions relating to the process itself so far to create the necessary work of the international aviation training centre in Kalamata. Of course we can see and how it proceeds from the decision of the Ministry of Defence and the Committee on Equipment and then the procedure for the establishment of the Centre. In particular, questions were raised in relation to this option as such, if the centre could be implemented without international cooperation and the second if the choice made - a choice of cooperation with the Israeli company - was the most advantageous one. In investigating the evidence, I found that the proposal put forward in the context of the attempt to create the centre in the previous government period was 1,875,000,000, if I am accurate. Subsequently in the new procedure, which had similar characteristics, the same company offered a much lower bid, the difference was about 800 million. The decision you have taken, which has also been given the agreement of the Committee on Informatics, I believe that it solves the issue from the point of view of guarantees to be created, but this needs to be reflected in the Convention as well. And you should tell us whether the contract between the Greek and the Israeli side is clear in relation to the issues that we have also raised in the committee. Our aim is to create fast and when - it is a question - the international aviation training centre in Kalamata by supplying and using new modern aircraft at the disposal of our trained pilots is a crucial issue and we have therefore decided that it should be discussed in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u19	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, the creation of an international training centre on the Flight Object in Kalamata is certainly not the only great task for the Armed Forces that we receive in and out of five, and we are trying to implement in only five. It's not the only one, but it's one of the most contagious, I'd say. Because we may have recently supplied ultramodern aircraft, the eighteen Raphalls, the F-16 upgrade program in Viper version may, in terms of means, be upgraded, I would say dramatically, but we also need an inspiring force. And the enthusiasm is the operators, of course, graduates of the Icaron School, who should be trained in a modern education centre. The need had been established early, to look into history very soon. By decision of 1-11-2017, the SAGE, namely the General Staff Board, approved a study to complete the sub-programme for the creation of an international training centre for flights to the 120th Air Training Wing, that is to say the training centre of the Air Force in Kalamata. According to this study, the Air Force would lease an integrated flight training program, i.e. with support to ground-based training, simulators, computers for training in individual systems, etc. For at least twenty years. The need was considered in 2017 as urgent. Since 2017, the emergency was judged to be urgent, because the time was ending and the training part of the Air Force was deadlocked, after the aircraft were resurrected and a great residual object was left to the Icarus - that is, the Icarus could not be trained by the airplanes and this created an increasing load - it was decided to go to this execution of this sub-programme. The solutions were explained because on this sub-programme we supported the proposal, which was discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs for about four hours. I was present and I think that there was quite a great deal of response and, at least, very satisfactory, the technical points and the financial aspects of the proposal. The solution, therefore, was to upgrade existing T6 aircraft, with 2020 specifications - the existing ones are much less and are specifications 2010 - and to supply new jet aircraft, that is, jets. There are now three in availability. We're talking ten new last generation. I mean, they'll train Icarus to operate on fourth-generation aircraft. What we have corresponded to the Fantom, that is, to third-generation aircraft. You understand that's not the case. The Air Force had seen the deadlock since 2017, but nothing happened beyond that. I'm still on the record. I shall finish soon, Mr President, and I shall keep the few figures for my dentistry. Decision of the Supreme Air Force Council, March 2018. Consider the proposal of the Canadian company, which gave two options: Or go to the provision of training aircraft by 'LOCKHEED MARTIN' or by the Canadian company. A working group was set up in July 2018 following a mandate of the Head of GEA to examine in depth these proposals. The cost was, in fact, 1.8 billion. How did we get to a much lower cost, what can I tell you? It may be because of competition, that is, since the second company was interested, tenders began to fall. This, however, is to the benefit of the national defense and the Air Force. I cannot say inconsistently, but happy, because, since we have undertaken to lead the negotiation, tenders started to decrease one after the other, so that we could get to the offer, which we finally agreed on. And at the moment - to say this too - negotiations are taking place between the two parties. It has been established by the Ministry of National Defence, the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment and Investment, the negotiating team, and it is currently negotiating with the representatives of the Israeli company, in order to reach a contract, which will be signed, I imagine, shortly. We don't have any more room to lose anyway. In August 2018, the GFCM gave its opinion on the sub-programme again because of the urgent nature, but there was a failure to finance it in about one billion of the proposal that existed at that time at the table. So we did not go to the Committee on Equipment with a proposal for the adoption of the sub-programme, because we did not have the money, to say it simply. January 2019 - and here is the interesting point - the Defence Council under the then Minister, Mr. Kammenos met. That actually decided three things. Firstly, we should continue negotiations with the Canadian side to see if we can take the offer. This has not been the case, because the negotiations have not continued very intensively. Secondly, a request for more funding should be made to the Prime Minister. I would remind you that at the time the defence budget was 530 million a year. This necessary programme for the future of the Air Force could not be financed. Thirdly, there could be a more favourable proposal or, as it was heard in committee, we could do that on our own, with our own powers, on the basis of some idea at the time within the leadership of the Air Force, but it has never been translated into a specific proposal based on a specific study that said that with them and with these as preconditions the Air Force could take over this project. And that makes sense. They needed great investment in ground and airplanes to get out of this dead end. But the Icarus waited in order for them to be trained, to take out an hour longer flight and, of course, without seeing a solution to the horizon, because at that time we came to the unit to start flying Icarus at the age of twenty - eight, because he waited too long in order, since there were no means to complete flight hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u21	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u22	So there we ended in December 2019. And I thank you for the tolerance, Mr President, but four hours we talked to the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u23	Yeah, but what should we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u24	We arrived in December 2019, where there was the first visit of Director General BAE to Israel. This proposal also came to the table from the Israeli company of interest. I followed it in February 2020, the mission under the Prime Minister's responsibility in the summer of 2020 and the proposal of the Israeli company, which was chosen as a financially advantageous and more complete one in its details last December in the Committee on Equipment, has emerged. The rest of you will allow me to say it in my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Kegeroglu, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you too cannot explain the enormous, the great, the great difference between the two offers made by the same company for the same subject alone with a differentiation of government. In any case, what we seek is to close the past, but not get the legs hitting the head. And on the basis of the need to create the international training centre as soon as possible, see how this is guaranteed. The intellectual potential has always been Greece's great advantage. Of course, both the supply of modern aircraft and the modernisation that we are now conducting, after a long delay of many years. I have already talked about the delay in both the equipment programmes and the modernisation of the country's weapons systems. But our pilots are the crucial advantage. Their role has always been and will be the most critical. That is why I believe that, on the one hand, you need to look at issues relating to pilots, in general, their pay system and their insurance and pension positions. It is an issue I do not want to discuss today, but I mention it as a very serious one, because it is well known that they have also been struck by the decisions taken in the framework of the adaptation programmes and, above all, to see the rapid functioning of the training centre. What is the search for the Ministry of Defence to operate the training centre? Once the agreement is reached, will it begin to function when? When will the first plane arrive and when will our first pilot get in with the new system? And, of course, we can see other issues along the way, when education begins, when the centre starts to function, what we are pursuing - that is important - and, of course, if the local bodies have answered the questions in the Kalamata and Messinia area about the functioning of the educational centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u27	Here, Minister, you have the floor. This time in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to respond as soon as I can, starting from the end and answering the honourable Member that there is a permanent - so to speak - fermentation with local community bodies. It is reasonable and next that the interest is great, that there are some reservations about whether the operation of the centre will affect the operation of the Kalamata airport and its very positive prospects for the tourist product. I think all these questions have been answered. Much has been raised by fellow Members in the region. Obviously, there will be a constant briefing of local society so that any concerns and convinced that it will ultimately be in the interests of the local economy and of the tourist product, if necessary, since its conversion into an international training centre, among other things, is designed to attract pilots from other countries' military flights. Especially now with Israel, because of this choice, the strategic relationship with that country and the part of defence cooperation is further strengthened and, of course, the Israeli Air Force is coming closer, through this project, to the Greek Air Force. There are also possibilities for attracting pilots from other countries, possibly from NATO member states. It does not exclude the attraction of pilots trained by NATO member states. As you can see, coming to Kalamata and completing their training in the airborne object may also involve benefits in the local economy, perhaps also the launch of the tourist product. From there on, I think that all the technical questions have been answered very extensively in committee. Who's the backbone of the program? Chronology by Air Force Media, i.e. aircraft, helmets - which is the first training in career, if you like, a trained Icaru - and then the jet, which will be the type M346 of the Italian "LEONARDO", modern and adapted to the demands of modern technology at fourth generation aircraft level and fold. They are, therefore, ten jets, twenty-five - according to the specifications of the Convention - tutors. Right now we have eight tutorials. The rest of them will be upgraded until we reach the final number twenty-five. They offer corresponding hours of training both in the ground and in the air. This is a qualitative difference in the Israeli proposal, because they give more training hours and make it clear that the hours in the ground, that is until the aircraft takes off, and the hours in the air, which had not been clarified on the Canadian side. There are also many terrestrial training tools, new simulators for the jet, simulators providing training to individual systems, so-called multisar training, as well as computers providing ground training to individual aircraft systems. All this is clearly set out in a particular offer, all that with the type of lease, because it is considered economically more cost-effective for the Air Force and in the depth of twenty-two and not twenty-years, because they calculate - and quite rightly - the Israelis will take about two years in order to make all these investments, buy the aircraft, upgrade the existing ones, come the rest of the ground training to work. Therefore, there is all these elements. It's a full sentence. He's reasoned. Negotiations are taking place. We will end up - I think - very quickly in agreement and will start as soon as possible in Kalamata the denaturing and realisation of this investment. And in two years from now, by the way, when the life of the existing jet expires - because in two years' time, there will be no spare parts to support it - Kalamata will start with new training jets, upgraded helicals and all the infrastructure of an integrated international aviation training centre, with what this implies for the Air Force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u29	We move on to the fifth under No 422/14-2-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The violation and Suspension of a Collective Labour Convention in Theama - Akroama". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture, Mr Nikolaos Drotronmanolakis. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Doctor, I am pleased to be discussing this issue together, as, unlike many other members of the government, you are aware of the matter and I think we will have a very fertile debate. A collective labour contract was recently signed at the National Opera. Five months later workers suddenly learned that the Minister of Finance refuses to accept the monthly feeding allowance for workers paid with a single wage and other points of the collective agreement. In fact, workers have argued that if they give Lyric something, then tens of thousands of workers will also be asked for it. At the same time, the Onassis Foundation's Library of Letters and Arts was re-entered by the workers in the summer through a contractor's company and it is not the problem that they were re-entered, the problem is that their contracts with this contractor are at most monthly with daily compensation, with a fee of EUR 50 to EUR 52 per hour. For many days they have not been employed, there are workers who have not worked all of January, while their needs are dramatic in this crisis we live in. I mention all this, Mr Doctormanolakis, because you personally committed yourself on 4 February to the Federation of Accuracy - Theme and the Lykon Technical Association that you will mediate between Mr. Doglaaki and the Administration of Lyra in order to find a solution. Two weeks later, I want you to answer what has happened and what will happen. Also, as the question says, I ask for the self-evident, that the collective conventions be held at Theama - Akroama and especially at the free theatre. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the moment, if there are no incentives from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we will continue to have unpaid rehearsals, uninsured work, operating relationships - a small tolerance, Mr President - like those that have come to the news and now we see that the Minister is doing a press conference, probably - we all imagine - to announce her resignation. And if you do not go ahead with stopping subsidies from the OAED, the OAED tickets, grants from the Ministry of Culture, the vacancy grant, if you do not stop giving this money to the businesses, since they do not have a collective contract, this lawlessness will continue, will continue the extinct in culture, which the government says can't find them to give them their benefits. If you do this, in one month we will have a collective agreement, and this collective agreement must be the same - whether it is workers or direct employment - to end these loopholes used by companies. And finally, you made an oral commitment to the STAZOE as well and we're talking about technicians, speakers, carers, backliners, for those who set up the platforms, who don't have a code to be insured, Mr. Secretary, and they're insured as pilots, as computer operators, whatever fantasy finds every employer. I would like to hear how you will proceed with this commitment, with its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u31	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Mr Arseni. Thank you for your questions. You will allow me to begin with what you have put on the question in writing and then move on with the others, in so far as time allows me, otherwise in secondary terms. Indeed - we all know - that the cultural sector is one of them - worldwide, not only in our country - which has been hit most by the pandemic. That is why we started from the first day as government a series of support measures in this sector. More than 300 million in various forms of support have so far been allocated to the cultural sector and have been arranged, precisely in order to address the consequences of the pandemic. More specifically, within the horizontal measures, I am making special payments, the grant of insurance contributions, the repayments, etc., which are more than 166 million. Also, 30 million have been given for the artists’ registry so far. As you know, Mr Arseni, the record of artists is a tool that we have had to shape precisely because there are pathogens and tolerances on the part of culture and they have brought the workers of culture to a very adverse position, which has become much worse in recent years and because of the economic crisis. So that's why we did this tool at first as a mapping tool and then as an emergency grant. More than thirty-five thousand people have been registered in the artists' register and so far more than 30 million euros have been allocated. With regard to the specific programmes, the emergency invitations and the increase in sums of invitations, we are talking about 26 million, 50 million in the supervised bodies - I will come back to them, because that is precisely because they are also a part of your question - and a subsidy for theatres, musical scenes and concerts, 14 million. In a short time, we shall proceed with a corresponding programme for the cinema halls. I am saying all this because we are, in fact, trying not only to cover the issues that the pandemic has caused, but also the pathogens and indifference of the previous government that had allowed the cultural sector to mislead. However, let's go a little on the issues you mentioned in relation to the collective agreements. First of all, I would remind you that our supervised bodies have the self-interest, which means that they negotiate with workers their collective agreements. I also confirm and reassure everyone that we are talking about employment rights which are absolutely guaranteed for workers in the supervised actors of modern culture and have never been called into question, nor has there ever been any thought in this regard. All contracts are executed and all employees continue to enjoy all their rights. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In the case of collective agreements, there are two different types of contracts. One has to do with workers, for example that of the Lyric scene, and the other has to do with, for example, the state theatres, which are between the National Theatre and the State Theatre of Northern Greece, where the counterparty is the Association of Greek Actors. The State Theatre of Northern Greece has already signed a contract with the ATT on 6 March 2020, which is currently in force until 30-9-2021. I therefore reply to you, because it was also part of your question, that this contract exists and is active. The National Theatre at the moment we're talking about is in negotiations with the SCA and I think it's very close to agreeing. In fact, our appeal was to all sides to resolve the question of the 'live streaming' rights, which, because of the pandemic, has become more topical than ever. As far as the Onassis Foundation is concerned, I would like to make it clear that it is neither our supervising body nor a regular grant. Therefore, the issue you are referring to is not at all within our competence. If he was to come under somewhere, he could be at the Ministry of Labour. But it's really not something we can do things for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u33	Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, you didn't answer. You say the Onassis Foundation's Literature and Arts House is not a supervised body. However, this is a very simple matter. If you are compelled to sign a sectoral contract or, of course, because you cannot oblige a sectoral contract, if you put it as a condition of grant, all the money that the public is giving to the theatres through the positions paid by the OAED, the empty posts for COVID and so on, that is to say, if the collective agreements were a precondition for all of this, then very simply we would have signed a collective agreement in a month. You report that there are pathogens for decades. They really do exist. But now with COVID, there has been an explosion. The question is whether you will sit as an observer in the pathogens of decades or solve them. The opportunity is in your hands. It's not hard to solve. Only the program for vacancies due to COVID stop paying to anyone who does not have a collective labour contract, namely anyone who does not respect labour rights in practice. These should be self-evident in our debate. As far as I am concerned, my question remains. You were committed to the Vision Federation - Accuracy and the Lyra Technical Association to interact between Mr. Dogakakis and the Administration of Lyric in order to resolve the issue of the violation of the Collective Labour Convention. It's been two weeks. People are calling you every day and you're not even answering their calls. This is denounced by the Federation. I just want you to be clear about what has been done and whether this issue will be resolved. Also, you must be clear about the issue of your other commitment to STAZOE, to solve the obvious, because we should not even ask for it! The technicians, sounders, carers, blackliners and those who work on the platform's setting can be insured, and there's a code of insurance! We shouldn't be talking about these things. We're not asking you to give them an allowance. We're asking for the right to insurance. At the moment, when they're insured, they're insured as pilots, computer operators, and what every employer thinks. That is what STAZOE itself denounces. I would therefore like to see a clear commitment from you to whether your state and government stand positively against collective agreements, sees the unpaid rehearsal problem, the exploitation relationships at Theama - Acroama, these phenomena that we see the exploitation reach out of limits on human dignity these days, as it is on the surface. Will you stop them? Will you create decent jobs in the showroom? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u35	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arsenis, you have raised three distinct issues to which I shall reply. First of all, I would like to tell you about the conditions you are saying, for example, in order to conclude a collective labour contract in order to be able to obtain a grant or financial support from the Ministry of Culture, I would like to say that we are, in fact, the first to lay rules in this area. Especially for the programme of vacancies you mentioned earlier, if you read the text, it essentially provides and prescribes that these allowances to be granted to the theatrical producers or to the listeners will have ensured all the work and will have arranged any outstandingness both in terms of these rights and in terms of remuneration. As far as rehearsals are concerned, in the special KYA, for example, which we did precisely because of the coronary with the Ministry of Finance, we placed as an obligation for the theatres in spring. In our subsidies we are now making very strict issues of this kind, both in terms of rights and rehearsal. I would also like to mention this in public a few days ago, and I repeat it from the Step of the House, since I am given the opportunity - and in relation to a code of conduct that we want to pass on. Although the private sector reacts and says that it does not want us to impose it, we with tools - as you suggest - are trying to guide workers and employers to sit at the same table and discuss these very serious issues. From there on, in relation to the Lyceum, we are indeed in open contact with them. In fact, I would like to inform you - I guess people didn't have time to tell you - that the day before yesterday they spoke to my office and it's a matter that we're looking at. We are in an open dialogue and I think they too can confirm that there is no other political leadership in the Ministry of Culture that is in contact with them so often and so directly respond to the issues they raise. But I have to tell you something about the Collective Work Agreements, so also that of the Lyric, because for the others of the National Theatre and the State Theatre I answered. Under existing legislation, in accordance with Article 44484/2017, any collective agreement providing for the granting of non-wage benefits, as included in the Lyragon Collective Convention, should be signed by the Minister of Finance. So at this particular moment in time, with the specific data and without harming any employment rights of workers in public bodies supervised by the Ministry of Culture, what we are saying is that we support the effort and we are in open dialogue, but we must also take into account the budget lines set by the General Accounting Office of the State. In this context, too, I would remind you that support is practical. When, for example, in 2016, the Lyria received 12 million euros a grant and in 2020 it received 21 million euros a grant, when the National Theatre and State received 7, about, millions, and now they receive more than 9 million euros each, we are talking about a practical and substantial support, which is obviously also being passed on to workers. We also know and monitor, in the framework laid down by the law and allow our responsibilities, the debate that our administrations are having with our workers. And to close with something about the STAZOE you mentioned. Obviously I am aware of this, and it is obviously a very serious issue and I am pleased that you are putting it, and it is a debate that we have already started with the Ministry of Labour. Why with the Ministry of Labour? The reason why these people, as you said, are insured in wrong occupational codes - to say it like this - in a wrong professional classification is because their profession was not there, it was not recognized. So what should we do? New working schedules must be established, with the Ministry of Labour and the supervised bodies of the Ministry of Labour, a procedure which we have already requested to the Ministry of Labour and which is under way so that then these people can be insured for what they really do and not for something that they do not respond to. I would therefore also like to confirm the STAZOE, but also you personally, that it is an issue that I have actually committed myself to and that we are working with the Ministry of Labour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u37	We are now entering a circle of questions which will be answered by the Minister of Development present, Mr Adonis Georgiadis. The first Member is not here. But because Mr. Villards is here, I'm not holding her off in the hope that he's coming. So we continue with the debate of the fifth under number 409/9-2-2021 on the first-round question, the Greek Parliamentary State, Mr. Vassiliardou, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Requirement for the fishing of Kavala and the fishing of the North Aegean". Mr. Villardo, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister, and thank you for your presence. Kavala is subject to the Athens Central Market Agency SA, in the OECD, which, in turn, falls within the supreme office of foreigners. It manages the Athens and Patras Central Vegetable Market, as well as eleven local fish auctions. Ichthyskala Kavala, along with that of Alexandroupolis, are the only ones in the northern Aegean. It employs two hundred and fifty to three hundred people, thirty people and is considered one of the main economic pillars of the region. According to traders from the fish auction, it has been carried out by the Veterinary Office that has identified problems, although there is nothing in writing. Of course, some upgrades have been carried out in recent years, but they have not been officially delivered, so that the dossier can be closed and the NSRP can reclaim further projects. At the same time, the OECD closed down the fish auction’s packing with the result that exports have been frozen in the crisis, so too much revenue and currency has been lost so much that our country and the region are so in need. In addition, in cooperation with the region, he transferred the packing room to a warehouse outside the fish auction, rented by the CSDA to a private person. This warehouse was transformed into a packing room and ice cream that serves great supermarkets, creating unfair competition in the fish auction that has the patented right of the packer-freezer. The biggest problem, however, faced by the fish auction, is the compensation fee of 2% on the invoice in accordance with Joint Ministerial Decision 158825 and the OECD decision. For everything I say, I will submit to the Minutes later the relevant documents to be fully documented. When multiple transactions are made between wholesalers to transfer the fish to each other, 2% is charged again and again, while the law only writes once. Logically, merchants require that 2% is paid only the first time a box enters the fish auction, not every time a hand changes either in the Kavala fish auction itself or in another. After all, for fish from third countries, a rate of less than 2% is paid, but only once, on the basis of the Fisheries Code. Finally, there is a fear that the deterioration of the fish auction is aimed at selling it out of the OECD and turning it into a multimarket or something like Alexandroupolis, which has become a parking lot. In addition, there is no veterinarian on a regular basis. Our questions are as follows: First, what do you intend to do to upgrade the fishing facilities of Kavala, both in terms of existing areas and in terms of the operation of the packing-freezer in its premises, so that it can continue its uninterrupted operation and exports? Secondly, what do you intend to do to equate the end of 2% with the charges on imports of third countries? Do not be charged, in other words, over and over again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u39	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I will be relatively brief in the sense that the Kavala fish auction, as in general the fish auctions do not belong to the Ministry of Development, so that we can intervene. Of course, you also know from the law of SYRIZA - ANEL government about the creation of the surplus fund, that the OECD and therefore all fish auctions have passed the property of the surplus fund. The excess is, therefore, responsible for their development, for improving them, for making them more efficient. The only thing that the Ministry of Development has is, let's say, high surveillance, to monitor the results, and above all, not to be loss-making for the Greek State. I must therefore tell you that the Minister of Development' s possible intervention from the creation of the super-tem and then to the fish auctions is about zero. As far as the substance of your questions is concerned, I should just like to say a few words. Firstly, according to the new spatial and urban planning of the port of Kavala, the immediate transport of the fish auction Kavala from where it is now located has been decided, which means that large investments in the face of transport cannot be made. In 2018, the programme of the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace, amounting to 2,2 million euros, was completed, which involved upgrading the facilities for the construction of the two new pavements, which you mentioned before. According to the service, they do not only serve supermarkets in the area you mentioned, but also serve fish auctions normally and local fishermen. As far as not at the end of 2% is concerned, this is not just about domestic catches, as you have written in your question, but also about imported catches. There is therefore no question of different treatment. Consequently, it does not appear from the General Secretariat of the Consumer Service that there is a question of discrimination between domestic and imported goods. If you have any further information on this, I would be very happy to present it to me and to consider it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Villard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u42	Minister, what you said about the Supreme Court was interesting. Obviously, here in Parliament, can we not ask a question at the supreme office, or can we? You'll answer me later, of course. As far as 2% is concerned, what you said applies both to imported products and to domestic products. The problem, however, is that in this case domestics are constantly being charged with 2%, i.e. if they sell each other, they are being charged with 2%, the next person who sells them, say, at the Athens fishing market, also with 2%, while for imported goods it is only once. That is the problem of the region, and that is what we would like to see how it can be solved, which obviously depends on you. I didn't know any other department, so I addressed you. I would ask you, however, to see this 2%, because it is imposed again and again, and it is charged with all traders in the fish auction. The second part of the question is that fishing is traditionally important to Greece for national and economic reasons. However, in recent years it has been considerably reduced. In particular, in 2016, production of the sector amounted to seven hundred and eighty thousand tonnes of fish together with aquaculture, occupying a very important position in the European Union, which is why we are particularly interested. It is a key area of employment, especially in the island economy. Fishing is threatened by Turkish fishermen who are not subject to Community restrictions, in accordance with the common fisheries policy, as regards, for example, the size of indicators, quotas, environmental protection, etc. At the same time, Turkey can export duty-free to the European Union via Greece, in this case also the Garden Customs Office. Now, we are appearing as Turkey's second largest market in the European Union, with our imports from Turkey increased to sixty-seven million in 2019 from thirty-two million in 2017. Thus, the Greekized or non-fishes of Turkey are directed through our country to the markets in Italy, Spain and France. Overall, exports of fish from Turkey have exceeded one billion, 60% of which goes to the European Union, including Greece. It is also important to reduce our historically very important sector, aquaculture, where Turkey has now exceeded us, since we have now produced eighteen thousand tonnes of thirteen thousand in 2010, when Turkey today produces fifty-four thousand against just sixty-eight thousand that it produced in 2010. To note here that, in our Member of the European Parliament's recent question on exports, the European Union has confirmed our right to control the origin of imported fish so that they do not appear as Greek. We must also note that in recent years a Turkish fishing fleet has been fishing in the Aegean, reaching up to six miles, for example, from Samothraki by selling our own fish to us, because we have not established fishing zones. We have to do this once. Finally, in addition to unfair competition, which is particularly noticeable in Alexandroupolis, the fish auction of which has now snailed, there is a matter of national security, among other things, because we do not know what these fishermen are carrying. Our questions here are as follows: First, do you intend as a government to monitor the origin and quality of imported fish? How will you ensure effective veterinary control, which is not in place anywhere? And secondly, how do you plan to defend fishing in the Aegean in relation to the invasion of Turkish and other fishing? If that's not your issue, you'll just tell me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u43	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u44	Of course, Mr Colleague, you can ask questions about the supervising ministry, that is, the Ministry of Finance, because it is not the Ministry of Development the supervising Ministry. As far as 2% is concerned, I repeat that according to our services, it applies in the same way either to domestic or imported goods. Repayment is also made to imported, if they pass and change hands. There is no provision exempting imported products. Whatever changes hands he pays back. It shall not be checked whether it is imported or domestic. Only the act is checked. It's like VAT. It's a tax matter, actually. He ends up in favour of fishbirds. But if the services are wrong, I can assure you I'll look into it again. With regard to the other issues of the fisheries policy you have raised, which are all crucial questions and I do not go away, they are important questions, I have absolutely no competence. Fisheries policy belongs to the Ministry of Rural Development, it is the responsibility of another Minister. I had in my previous term, in 2011-2012, the relevant competence, but today I do not have it. You should ask, which I consider to be very interesting and correct, about fisheries policy to the appropriate Minister. All I can say to you as Minister of Development is that the large investment and the acquisition of farms, which had been in a very big problem in the previous period and had been almost bankrupt, has normally moved from a foreign fund. It was a great reorganization for the site and they are moving on to very large investments. I believe that this market will be very dynamic again in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u45	We return to the first under No 411/9-2-2021 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament in the Eastern Republic, Mr. Vassiliou, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on "Concentration-aid measures due to the pandemic and the banning measures". Mr. Economou, you have the floor to develop the timely question. Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, this is the first time-consuming question I put as a Member of Parliament. I don't get used to it, because I think there's usually a review here. However, the fellow Member may also help the government project by focusing on the major problems, and I think that the issues that have arisen in the focus area are a very big problem. A second reason is that I believe that Mr Georgiadis, the Minister for Development, is a person who is disgusting and can give solutions to these major issues. And if I may, Minister, without any contempt, because I am many years in this Chamber and many people have been in my presence as ministers, I can judge. You're one of the best development ministers and it's lucky that the government and the Prime Minister have you in this chair. So for me it is a great opportunity to give some prospects and possibilities to help the people of the focus. And when I say focus, it's restaurants, coffee bars, entertainment centers, but the landowners' and receptions business, which, in East Attica, we have too many such businesses, nice businesses with many millions of invested. I would say, therefore, that they are also very hard hit by this restrictive policy that we have followed because of the pandemic, which is necessary for public health reasons, but you understand that we are talking about thousands of businesses. As the relevant representatives from GATT have informed me, they are twenty-three thousand enterprises only in the Attica region. So we are talking, for too many people, many businesses, thousands of workers, about a large circle of workers and related professions around the focus, and we really need this question and your presence today in Parliament to send a message of hope to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u47	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, thank you very much for your good words. I understand your reference as an encouragement to continue the hard work of the government - not just me, the entire government - in extremely difficult circumstances. I would like to be with you very honest and to make you a - let me be the term - de profundis confession. None of us dreamed of his term of office in these circumstances. I never thought that as a Minister of Development I should be working on how to close down operations and check that fewer customers enter a business. I always thought that I'd like to open up business and encourage more clients to enter a business. In this sense, therefore, I fully understand the bad position found by the professionals in the focus sector. On behalf of the Government, I apologise to them because they have been closed for so many months, but I understand that, too, they understand that this is not a decision that has been taken lightly in the heart, because we wanted to close down their operations, but because it prevailed - and I believe that - in the government and in Greek society the criterion of the defence and protection of public health. We have chosen to lose money to save lives and that certainly creates problems. You'll allow me to consult a little bit on my cell phone for the numbers, because I don't want to be wrong about what has happened all this time by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. So let's go to the numbers. According to the data of the Ministry of Finance, in 2019, the total turnover of the catering industry was 6.4 billion. In 2020, due to closed stores, Mr President, the real turnover reached 4.2 billion. The government, however, with a number of measures, which I will specify subsequently, has strengthened this sector from the state budget and from European funds by 1,93 billion. So 4,6 billion of 2020 finally closed to 6,13 billion in 2020. Losing these around EUR 300 million in turnover throughout the industry is certainly important, but on the other hand, it is quite obvious that the government has done too much, as much as we could, to strengthen this sector which is in such a major crisis. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like to say a few words, if I may, Mr President, for one more minute. Businesses in the focus with staff from one to five people have received from the Returner about EUR 2,000, the threshold. They don't pay rent January, February, now and March. They shall not pay wages and insurance contributions for workers who have been suspended. They have suspended payment of the instalments of regulated tax and insurance debts and their repayment has gone in the future. Undertakings with an information debt on 30 September 2020 may be included in a capital injection and business loan suspension programme. Now we'll also pay interest on business loans. We've gone to a VAT reduction at 13%. At first we had done it by April, now it will go by September 2021. They have been exempted from municipal fees for the months of Lockdown and free of charge for the development of additional bank seats and a 50% reduction in the fee for the months that the company was running. Also, with a NRV programme, as we know, the supply of a heating body per 10 sq.m. legally licensed outdoor space and up to 100 euros for each heating body was subsidised. This shall apply retroactively from 1 February 2020. As regards enterprises of more than five people, each company received at least 4,000 euros from Return 5. They do not pay rent, insurance contributions, etc. I do not want to repeat them, because they apply to everyone exactly the same as I mentioned to other businesses. According to the Ministry of Finance, each catering store on average only from Return 5 has received 4.592 euros. I would remind you that half is non-refundable, that is, half is a gift. We're making the grant application to meet the obligations. It's not in the sense of a gift, not to get me wrong. A beverage store also received an average of EUR 3,139. In total, twenty-one thousand eighty-seven enterprises were found eligible for this programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u49	Minister, you have said this, it has been written. Don't waste time now, repeating things that we know about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u50	I'm closing, Mr. President. In my dentistry, I will explain the additional measures planned by the government. The message is that people are right. They're having a hard time, but we're all day on problems, so we can find the best solutions as far as possible. Thank you, Mr President, and apologise for the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u51	All right, Minister. It is a matter of this kind, which is justified by the delay. Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u52	In fact, the issue is such that it gives rise to the right to get away from time, because it is of great interest to people. Minister, a lot of things have been done. I, too, think that many views are also justified, saying "thankfully that you and Mitsotakis were in this position in the country's prime minister." You understand that thousands of professionals are in difficult situations. There was a debate last time, because there was indeed the ESDP programme for small and medium-sized enterprises, where these catering companies are basically part of it, but as the representatives and the Association of Restaurants and Associates of Eastern Attica, like the GATT, which is the competent body representing them, will receive a small percentage of these businesses from this programme. How would you see it become an ESDP programme specifically for these enterprises? I don't know which Ministry had taken out the heater program. However, I do not think this has gone too far. They haven't shown much interest. Did this money become part of a clean programme that you, together with the region - I don't know, you have a better picture, I make proposals - so that these thousands of businesses can make special use of it? They estimate that of the twenty-three thousand Attica-focusing operations around the two, three thousand will receive the subsidy from the ESRB. So there's an empty one there. In fact, there are the returnees, as you have said. In fact, there is a number of support measures, such as rent, etc. Some of the returnees get too much and some don't get at all. Should a limit come in? These are some proposals that their collective bodies are making. And let's see, if you put the question of the land owners, the land owners, as we call it, which really are in a difficult position too. I think it's worth it to support the focus. They are beautiful businesses, they are small and they match the Greeks, they match the East Attica, where the taverns, restaurants and farms are one of the main economic activities we have. It does not help to maintain our silhouette, but it helps us to be close to each other and to have the visitability in our area from Athens, from the center, where thousands of visitors come from for this reason in our nice areas. So we must support them, help them stay open. I hope that we do not have the third climate, because I am writing to you 'in view of the third wave'. But also the third wave of pandemic not to come, the damage has already been done in relation to the one year that these people have seen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The reason is yours now. I have great hope and great confidence that with your actions we can hope that there can be solutions that are serious about the issues that focus on the focus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u53	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u54	Mr Colleague, as to whether or not the third wave will come, the President as a doctor is more competent to answer. I don't know. I hope he doesn't come. Of course, the quarantine measures we have taken to prevent such a third wave, which would be disastrous, especially for the loss of human lives. I believe, however, that, as the figures so far show, the situation remains under control. We are concerned about this, with difficulties, but under control. I'm going to finance, which is more of my responsibility. As far as the advance is concerned, let me make it clear that there's no human hand coming in. Neither Stavros Minister nor Minister Georgiadis decides whether to take this money or beta. We have set some criteria which are objective. It's the reduction of turnover, it's the number of workers. When the criteria are in place by the accountant within the platform, the algorithm made from underneath automatically shares the money. There were serious complaints from the focus companies that from the Return Advance 5 they took less money than they calculated. We have acted to respond to this criticism, which I accept, because if anyone complains, they are not protesting for no reason. There's a reason he's complaining. On a monthly basis, we made the first advance 6, not on a bimonthly basis. What for? To put the January 2020 tick on the January 2021 tick. We believe that, on the basis of this move, shops that were constantly closed, such as the focus, will have an advantage in absorbing money in relation to companies which partly opened up such as retail trade, which, in half January, worked and worked well. What do I mean by that? That since a store worked well in January, the reduction of its turnover will be small, so the money that will be entitled to receive from the repayable advance will be less. Therefore, there will be more money to be distributed to those companies that had a higher turnover reduction because they have remained closed for too long, such as focusing. We therefore believe that in advance 6 there will be a serious and better treatment of catering shops. Finally, as far as the ESDP programme is concerned, we will see how it goes. It is early to tell you whether or not to absorb the heaters program. This has been in place to make it possible to make more use of the outer space. We are already in contact and consultation with Mr Kavvatha - Mr Kavvatha - I quote him as the President of the GSEA and as the representative of the focus - and we are planning a new NSRP, focusing only on the focus, so that we can further strengthen them in the light of the opening, because we believe that, as long as the vaccinations are going on - I cannot say a date - we are approaching to opening up. In conclusion, I would like to say something about businesses that make receptions, catering, weddings, etc., which are many in eastern Attica - well said - there are many and nice farms. My personal opinion - I shall be at risk of saying this - is that from the beginning of May we will be able to open them up. I am referring above all to the following point, Mr President. Because they must also make their programming, and people who want to plan events must be quick to close their dates now. Because if all our fellow citizens leave it for the last minute, when we open, then no one will find a blank date, given that we have left a year without events. I therefore believe that, with the vaccination programme, which is progressing rapidly, with the evolution of the weather towards May and the forecasts of the World Health Organisation on how the pandemic will go in our country in the coming months, we will be able to open up these operations as well in May. So they should make their programming too. We're at the end of a difficult route. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u55	We are now entering the last question, which Mr Georgiadis will answer. It is the third with number 2967/29-12-2020 question of the cycle of petitions - questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "The government initiatives on Elefsina Shipyards are contradictory". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, especially after the pandemic and the great recession we are experiencing, the use of all the comparative advantages in the country, including unprocessed wealthy sources and infrastructure, is imperative in order to relaunch the economy and to boost growth, work and social cohesion. The Change Movement, seeking credible and effective opposition, insists on the issue of the sustainability of the shipyards, because we believe that with a proper plan it could be a lever to relaunch the economy. This, however, presupposes, firstly, a development plan for the shipbuilding industry in our country, secondly, companies and investors with credibility, third-party human resources and fourthly, customers and activity. Starting with the fact that there is the object and with the appropriate design, we will convince and attract not only Greek shipowners, but others, I focus on the development plan on the government side and on the human potential. We've got a void. A comprehensive plan for shipbuilding has not been submitted so far. It is indicative - not, of course, unexplained - that the Secretary of State for Finance replied to me about the Scaramaga Shipyards - of a different nature, of course - and you are responsible for Elefsina. We want the whole plan. In addition, we need to see how problems arise in relation to the Elefsina shipyards, so that the object and viability of the shipyard are guaranteed, but also, of course, the six hundred jobs and the rights of workers, as you know very well - and you have already expressed yourself in the past - that there are jobs due, which now amount to about 23 000 000, 24 000, 000. And the total amount due from the shipyards, while counting, Minister, to 270,000 000 to 300,000 000, now seems, according to reports, to exceed 400,000 000. The question is, then, this: Until September, when there is room for filing a dossier in 106 BC, will the whole of this margin be exhausted, or will we be able to speed up this process - not we, the investor - by resolving issues and clarifying the situation and the need to move forward? What action have you taken and what will you take on the specific issues that we have raised and on the written question that we have put to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u57	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u58	First of all, Mr President, thank you very much for the question. I, too, preferred to discuss it in Parliament as timely rather than in writing, in the sense that it is a complex matter and I want to be careful in my reply. So I'll try to explain in good faith what's happened. The Elefsina shipyard part is one of the issues that the Ministry of Development has dealt with most of all during my term of office and I have personally dealt with finding a solution. I want to make it clear to everyone that this is a very complex issue. I'm starting with the first one you mentioned. According to the effort to restructure the Elefsina shipyard, they became the following: The shareholders - and as you know this discussion took place with the shareholders - transferred their voting rights and shares for a limited period of time to the companies of Mr. Xenokostas, in order to become the "Due Diligence" and to enable the US investment fund DFC to finance the resolution plan. The investigation, 'Due Diligence', was carried out by the company 'ERNST & YOUNG'. The company "ERNST & YOUNG" on 8 January 2021 gave us its classified report on the real situation of the Elefsinos shipyard. I do not want to give it to the public, as it also has critical data on the Navy's programmes, which are being carried out in this shipyard. However, I can now reply to the House to you and, unfortunately, confirm the publications you referred to. The image of the Elefsina shipyards, unfortunately, is much worse than at first we all appreciated and discussed here in Parliament. The total public debt - i.e. the Navy, IAS, EVA, workers, banks and other creditors - today we are talking about is far more than 400 million. As you can see - to reach agreement on the reality - these 400 million more than 200 million are directed to the Greek State, namely the Hellenic Navy, the EPCA and the Tax. Therefore, these cannot be removed by a court decision, since this would constitute unlawful State aid, in accordance with European law. You realise that, after the collapse of the court, according to Article 106b, the remaining debt to be borne by any investor for Elefsina shipyards will be several hundred million euros. I imagine you all understand what this is about the investor, who will have to take on debts of so many millions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like to make it clear that in all the proposals and discussions that we have made with investors - and in my dentext I will explain where we are - we have set the first condition - this is the only intransigent term for us - the full payment of employees' wages. It's not 23 to 24 million, my colleague. Today it's over 34 million. So, then, we have things that you should have in mind. One is the great public debt that cannot be bored and a debt to the workers who must be paid. I'll tell the rest of it in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u59	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u60	I stress again the need to have a wider plan for the development of the shipbuilding industry, given that Greece can take the lead in this area. He has the infrastructure and he can use it. However, I come immediately to the question of Elefsinas shipyards, which seems to be overturning the data we have had so far. About 420 million - to speak the same language - you said about 60% of public debts. This means that the Greek State can play a more active role in this process, based on the fact that about 60% of the debts are its own. Because if that were not the case, it would be a purely business activity and a process, in which we would have no say but to comply with the laws. So this more active role we want to see how you understand it in the next period, of course, along with the intentions - and not only - but also the decisions of the investor's side that need to clarify its position in relation to the new data too, in order to have a credibility. Of course this is linked to human resources, to six hundred workers. I add to what you have to pay for - the number you said is really great - the 34 million that you said it was due. It is a very important sum for six hundred workers. And through a good business plan the work of these people and not just of them can be ensured. More work can be done in the perspective of growth, particularly in satellite companies and in the context of the overall development of entrepreneurship. Is the investor and the government involved in the completion of the plan linked to the construction of wells, the transformation and modernisation of the War Navy's MEPs? Will the two torpedoes end the participation of the Ministry of National Defence program, or will there be continuity? Secondly, over and above the plan that an investor has - if he has informed you, and if he has submitted it - he thinks that the company is viable, in view of the reality on the international shipping market and the possibility that Greece will be able to attract investment in this sector? Investments with the contribution of both the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy and the entire government, so that Greek shipowners can also be persuaded, after testing quality, that they can do the shipyard work in a reliable and sustainable way at the Greek shipyards. It is a complex issue indeed, but if we do not take a step - step, it will not be solved. At this stage, then, I believe that without getting into the conflicts that I see exist in the publications - I do not really know - between old and new owners - we are interested in the new owner of the majority of the package, the businessman who wants to invest - what assurances he gives you in relation to all these issues so far? Is there any discussion with him to file the file as soon as possible on the basis of the new data? Because it takes a year to decide. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u61	That new investor in the sky we were looking for, on earth we found him, I think. Isn't he, Minister, who has taken the Syrian shipyards?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u62	Of course, Mr President. I should like to mention, since you have made this comment, that the case of the New Syros shipyards is convinced that the restructuring of the Elefsina shipyard and the regeneration of the shipbuilding industry is absolutely viable. I would remind you that the Syrian shipyard a few years ago had no power to pay and the workers could not make Christmas from the debts. Today there is a regeneration in Syria, Mr President. Boats are waiting for an arrow in a row to get into the shipyard. The yard has been profitable since its first year of operation. All the employees have paid back all the old money they owed them. They are normally paid on time and they are grateful to the government that intervened and saved this process with ONEX. Our vision is the same in Elefsina. Of course, the sizes are very different, aren't they? So, in order for Elefsina to become a reality, what has the government done to date and I personally? I personally went to Washington and saw the DFC in November 2019. Following my meeting and the presentation of the Elefsina project with ONEX, the US Congress has voted for an amendment allowing the DFC to finance projects in Greece as well. Until then Greece was one of the exceptional countries to support the DFC financially. Then came the CEO of the DFC in Athens and met with the Prime Minister, we went to Elefsina, the due diligence process began. I must say that, because of the American elections, we had a slight delay. What for? Because after the change of governance in the United States, all those who were in charge of this organisation by 20 January have now changed. America has new governance and that's where the new faces of the new government come in. We had, however, taken care very much before the American elections to have informed the Democratic Party of what we were planning to do with the DFC in Elefsina. So the new leadership of the DFC, with which I have a televised meeting next week, is aware of this whole project and supports it, as the President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has publicly expressed and supported it in this project by the American Senate, Mr Menedes. And that is important in terms of the decisions of the new US Government. We are optimistic that all commitments from the DFC remain valid. So, in that sense, there is a funder. The DFC is the US government agency to promote US investment abroad. Therefore, capital adequacy is absolutely guaranteed, because of the US government, to say it quite simply of the US state, and on the other hand there is the resolution plan for the investor, Mr. Xenokostas of ONEX, who has proved to Neorio that he can do the job and can bring the resolution. Now, why don't you tell me why we're not already in court? We said that the due diligence was first to end, so that the American side could also know what it is doing - because that is what American legislation provides for - that there should be a change of leadership in the DFC, which is now being completed, and that there should be this due diligence, this study of 'ERNST & YOUNG' and that they should be able to pass through their own administrative boards, as long as they have to guarantee a very large amount of money. As to your point that the Greek State has to play a key role, it obviously has to play. To go to court with Article 106b, all creditors must agree. And only the Greek state is enough, due to the size of 60%. Without the Greek public, that is, it can't be done. Only if the Greek State says yes can this resolution plan proceed. I can assure you that the Greek State, as long as the resolution plan to be tabled is viable, will always - I say it again - under the terms and conditions laid down in European law and competition law. Because that's what sets some limitations that we can't get over. Because if we get over them, then we'll have Scaramaga's problems and the complaints about illegal state aid, which no one of course wants to have. Thus, within the framework of the laws, within the framework of competition law, the Greek State will consent once the resolution plan has been signed and financially covered. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Finally - and that is what I am saying, without further expansion - the juncture, of course, Mr Navy, and the need to move on to the programme of the new freshmen and the reconstruction of the old MEPs at this point has its importance for the restructuring of the shipbuilding industry. Don't be fooled. With such a large contract from the Navy it will certainly have a large share and the domestic shipbuilding industry. After all, the Prime Minister has said so at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki. I imagine you understand that, too, it would be unreasonable to do so differently. So this part must also help to make the final decision. I think we will not get there - because you asked me if we would need to run out of time - by September, no. Much earlier, we'll be able to go to court. If I'd give a tide of time today we're talking about, with one reservation, I'd say in the next quarter we'd be in court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Minister. We enter the sixth year number 415/11-2-2021 top-level question from MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Without Metro in Haidari, the Attica Hospital and the University of Western Attica". The question will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is the fifth question we are discussing in West Athens. I think it was very positive that, through this debate, I believe, the process of extending Metro to Ilion and Petroupoli has also been speeded up. It was very important, although there is still no progress in the express lines, which we have discussed at the meeting we had in your Ministry and which must be done, to link the central squares of the municipalities to the existing last metro station in Anthuboli, so that the citizens can be served until the projects are done. We are now talking about another point in western Athens. We're talking about Haidari. And why are we talking about it? It is the extension of line 7, which has really remained on the bells and has been lost from the public debate. It's not a line that just connects the subway to a municipality, Haidari. It is the line that would cross next door - because it passes Athens Avenue - from the University of West Attica, which is located right in Aegaleo on the road to Haidari. Beyond Haidari, he would connect the Attica Hospital, the largest of the Balkans. It would also connect the metro network to a very important UNESCO monument, one of the few we have in our country, the Daphne Monastery, a super-local park, almost metropolitan, I would say, the Botanical Garden and other infrastructures, like, of course, the Psychiatric Hospital in Daphne. So I invite you to look carefully again at the subject of line 7, at least the part that connects from the Athens Centre the zone to Heidari, precisely because the infrastructure is significant over-locations. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] A slight tolerance, Mr President. Also, as you can see, the question also relates to line 803, an important line for Haidari, the route of Piraeus bus - Haidari Forest. It's a line that still has long delays. Through the OSCE telematics, we see that in peak hours the routes have been delayed forty minutes, which is a very long distance. Because this is a central issue, I ask you to make a commitment that the issue of line 803 will be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to thank you for your question, because you are giving me the opportunity - as you quite rightly said, you have asked a number of questions about transport issues in the wider region - to clarify a few things so that there are no issues in the air that do not correspond to reality. So let me make it clear to you that there was never planning in line 3 that provided for its passage from another station to the Municipality of Haidario, except for the station that exists today in Agia Marina. In fact, I would remind you that the existing station "Agia Marina" was originally called "Haidari station", as it is geographically located on the border of the Municipality of Haidario with the municipalities of Aigaleo and Agia Varvaras. The question now refers to a statement by the former Minister of State PTHHODE, Mr George Soufflias, who claimed that the metro would be launched for the Municipality of Haidari. It is clear that he was referring to the "Agia Marina" station and the data fully confirm it. I think you know that we are the politicians - if you want - who have succeeded in this ministry, we must stress from this Step forward that even the line 4 that is being made today was designed by this Minister, Mr Soufflias, in the period 2004-2009. We all realise how complex underground railway projects are and how much time they take to implement, because there are many environmental issues that the state always needs to take into account, as well as archaeology issues. Now, what is going on and how the people of Haidari are serving today. They are served by the "Agia Marina" station. Regarding, Mr Arsenis, with the present design of the new projects implemented in the 2021-2027 financial programme, I refer specifically to the issue of line 4. Therefore, any possibility of connecting Haidari to the metro network, that is to say to make an additional station, cannot be discussed in this programming period. And I am explaining, to understand it and I will try to say it as simple as possible: there is no possibility of a line today that we are talking about and there is no studying maturity at all. I do not want to ash in the eyes of the people of Haidari and say what another previous minister would say and another government would say that 'we will see it, we will study it, how right you are.' We say this: With the data we have today, because these projects are financed by the European Commission, in the specific programme period 2021-2027 which starts, no other metro station can be financed in Haidari. Why can't he, Mr. Arseny? I told you, firstly, because in the original design that had been made, it had become the station of "Agia Marina" to serve all three municipalities. Now, simple logic, someone who does not know, would say "Why don't you take a line to make another station in Heidari?" Because the subway is unfortunately not a bus. In the metro, there must be a starting point and ending. There has to be planning. We can't take it where we want. There is a need for transport studies. So the engraving of the metro when it took place in 2008 - and which is currently being reviewed - was designed to serve as many areas as possible - but how? - in a specific way and in a specific place. We cannot, in short, make a branch and take the metro eight hundred meters more there or a thousand meters more here. So, what are we talking about right now? We say that the Municipality of Haidari is served by the station of "Agia Marina". I understand that this in an area could create some issues, but other municipalities had to be served. We cannot, at least at this stage, have metro stations everywhere. That's the reality. I think you know that better than me, Mr. Arseni, that the "Agia Marina" station is coming out on Zefyros street, which is at the border of the Municipality of Heidari. Also in Haidari there is a parking of "ATTIC MERO". There are thousands of our fellow citizens who use their IX and park them at a very low price. That was the design that existed. There is no design, at the moment, at the "ATIO METRO" or at the Ministry for expansion, i.e. another station, within the Municipality of Heidari. Anyone who tells you otherwise is lying. I am quite sure - because we have studied it very carefully - that for the 2021-2027 programming period there is no plan for it to be a second station within the Municipality of Heidari. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, first of all, I am tabling the Metro Map for the Minutes, as it is posted in "ATITIMERO", which refers to Line 7 and is the line that we are discussing exactly the Athens Avenue, which reaches Heidari. [[At this point the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned map, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Also, Minister, Mr. Souflias may have wanted to baptize "Agia Marina" "Haidari", but the "Agia Marina" station is not in Heidari. So, at least, let's not say it. It's actually at the lower limit of the city, it's on the border. Yeah, that's true, but it's two miles from the center of Haidari. Consider that there is so much discussion - and you yourself have done - that the Venizelos station, which is a few hundred metres away from the "Saint Sophia" station, is not abolished. We are talking here about a two-kilometre distance station from the administrative centre of the municipality, where life, shopping centre of Haidari and so on. Also, from the Daphne Monastery, from this monument of UNESCO, the distance is three kilometers. We want to put these areas on the economic map, on the tourist map. We want to connect and unload the traffic load, the area that students use to go to the University of West Attica, which is in Aigaleo. On this route would be a stop before the center of Heidari. So I think - without disagreeing with you that the work is mature, the debate is being held here to mature, the debate is taking place to begin - that you need to put it into the priorities, so that studies can begin so that in a visible future this work can be carried out. That's what I'm asking. Also, as always, we will need to see how bus expresses may exist - which can help you - in order to deal with the connection of "Agia Marina" essentially with the heart of Heidari, but, yes, also with the UNESCO monument. It must finally enter this place called "Western Athens" and in particular the narrowst of the Daphne, the most untouchable landscape of the Holy Road, now that Eleusina becomes Europe's cultural capital, at least to promise that at some point it will enter the transport map, can be a visit by our world visitors if we want to rebuild tourism and how much more to disperse this revenue into an area that needs it. He's been artificially behind for so long. It really needs the heart of Athens to strike west. It is a place that has all the specifications to become a global tourist destination the narrow Daphne with dozens of monuments, one next to the other, either of recent history or of ancient times, temples, part of the Holy Road and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u70	Mr Arseni, as I have told you in my prototype, I would first agree with you that it makes sense to exist in such a large area as Haidari, a urbanised area - as you have said - a station nearer to the center. In the broader planning, however, which took place in 2008 - and this design, of course, can change, I agree with you - the station was not planned to take place in the center of the Municipality of Heidari, because the neighbouring municipalities should also be served. So, in my personal view, the station was chosen to go where it is today, on the 'Agia Marina' point, which is, as you quite rightly said, to the border of the Municipality of Heidari. I said this because I do not want to give false hopes where they do not exist, and I think that the political life of the place should at one time say bitter truths. In the programme period 2021-2027 there is no extension to become a second station at the Haidari Station. And that's why, Mr. Arseny? Because the metro, as I have told you, has a recompense, is financed by the European Union. Therefore, the transport studies, studies of the cost of ‘benefit analysis’, at the moment, do not justify a second station in the Municipality of Haidari. That's not what the Minister of Government Mitsotakis or another Minister say tomorrow morning. This is what the services of the "ATTIC MEETRO" are saying. The policy has to come out a little bit, so we must listen to the services of the 'ATTIF' and the services of the European Commission. Therefore, during this programming period, unfortunately, there is no possibility of seeing the slightest progress being made in becoming a second station. We are now going to what you have said - and you have rightly said - on the lines - express and on the problems of buses. You're absolutely right. When we do not have a Metro in the center of such a densely populated area, another means of transport comes, the bus, which is not a metro and can be released more comfortably, to serve this area. I would like to inform you that the time limits at '803' have been considerably reduced. We had discussed this in this Parliament before, because you had asked a question on these matters before. Let me tell you that the design that OSCE has is to have three hundred more buses 'leasing'. We are looking forward to the approval of the Court of Auditors in order to get three hundred younger buses into the centre of Athens and the very deserving transport - if you would like - in the area of western Athens and in Heidari, so that we can give other alternatives to the people in that region, which, as you rightly said once - and you are right - we are also talking about a particular young population. There's a lot of youth in this area. We all know that public transport users are usually young people. And we in our planning now, Mr Arsenis, have an emblematic project called Gram 4. Mr President, it is the largest project to be done in Attica, EUR 1.5 billion, with fifteen stations. And it is a project whose precursors are starting, as I informed the Committee on Production and Trade yesterday, directly, a project that we managed to unleash from the many problems it had. And first this programming will begin. It is a project that has been approved and funded by the European Union's resources. And because a few days ago, and throughout this whole time, we have been talking about forty years since our country joined Europe, it is right that we in this Chamber should consider whether all these projects that we are discussing today would be done if some political leaders and some of them did not have the prediction in the '70s to make our own 12th member of the then European Economic Community. However, these projects are financed by the European Union and, in order to be financed, we must go with concrete plans and get the necessary approvals, which we are doing. So thank you very much for your question. I am at the disposal of both your and other colleagues to bend over the problems that really exist in western Athens. Such is also a problem of crime, but also vandalism on many OSCE buses. This is an issue that we see in collaboration with the Greek Police so that the citizens of these regions, the regions of the West Attica, can actually have better urban transport, have the urban transport they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, too, Minister. Next, it is the first under number 420/12-2-2021 to ask for a second question by MP B1' North Athens Department of New Democracy Mr. Georgios Koumoutsakos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “Expansion of Kymi Avenue”. And this question will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Here, Mr Kumucako, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I put forward today's topical question because it is my firm belief that when parliamentary control becomes essentially and not pre-formatively, or serving micro-participatory purposes, it primarily helps the citizens, but also the government to respond to their demands, concerns and concerns. Today's topical question concerns an infrastructure project on traffic issues in the North of Athens. He was filed on December 12th. However, my topicality requires that, in view of the great difficulties and problems faced by residents in the north-east of the Lefkanopotium in the last few days due to ice and snow, I call on all the co-popular services, in the spirit of yesterday's Prime Minister's intervention in the Parliamentary Group, in order to do everything possible to restore both power and water supply, but also the smooth circulation in many still areas of the north-eastern part of the Attica basin. I know that it is not at the hard core of your responsibilities, but I must on this occasion - if I did not, it would be wrong for the government and for me - to unite my voice, even now that there are a few households who have been afflicted with how they started, and to make an appeal for speedy activity so that these households can have a better restoration of normality in their family lives. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the issue of my topical question. The northeastern part of the Lecanoped has a population of five hundred thousand. The question of improving traffic conditions is vital to these five hundred thousand people. A very serious work that has been pending for a long time to help these people in comfortable traffic - and not only these, but also the whole of the Lecade - is the extension of Kymi Avenue, a project known. We are talking about a 3.6 km project, of which eight hundred measures concern subordination and eight hundred measures for the excavation section. It is an expensive project, a project of 350 million, but which, as a result of the time elapsed in many respects, one must soon wait for completion and overall intervention, so that it can go ahead, because it has stopped at the gloomy hub. The financial instruments exist. So what is needed now is your political will, your decision, for the next step, which is the implementation of the project. So the question is what are the plans of the Ministry? How quickly can the population of the North of Athens expect that this work be carried out? Is the financial instrument also planned to be fully used? In short, what can we expect in this very critical and vital project of traffic in the northeastern part of the Lefkanopedia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Kumucaco. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleague, Mr Kumucako, I am pleased that you are the first Member in Parliament to speak of a work of breathing, indeed, the extension of the Kymi Avenue and its interconnection through the Attica Road with PATHE. We are talking about really a work of breath that will upgrade northern Athens. I am pleased that you understand and recognise, if you will, that the present government has placed particular emphasis on the implementation of this work. It is an opportunity to inform the citizens who - you are absolutely right - have been tried at this intense juncture, at this unprecedented bad weather. It is an opportunity to give them, if you want a very clear timetable, not words of air, where we are and what we are doing. We believe that, in this way, with the extension of the Kymi Avenue, we are actually dismantling the already despoiled traffic within the Attica basin, and we are also giving a solution to the enormous problem of traffic congestion in the Transformation node. Attica Street is a saturated road. It's a very useful road several years ago. Let me tell you what we have done for the Kymi Avenue for eighteen months, because the truth is that studying maturity for this project really, as for all major projects, we did not find the Ministry eighteen months ago. Firstly, in order to overcome, Mr Kumucako, obstacles and delays, we have decided something very basic that has not been said. We have decided to dismantle the extension of Kymi Avenue from the wider concession contract of the Attica Road that, as you know, handles the TIAD. That has allowed us to disconnect this work and make it a public task and not a part of the concession that belongs to the responsibility of the TSED, and so we have been able to run much faster on the issues relating to the project. So we proceeded with the studies. All the studies have been done, done and completed, Mr Kumucako, in the next quarter. I will also tell you what studies we are talking about in order to have a full picture. We are talking about the preparation of all static studies and of the additional studies that need to be carried out on such an important project, such as road, plumbing, static, electromechanical studies. Therefore, in the next quarter by four months we complete and are ready to have complete study maturity. We are also moving towards all the necessary steps to move quickly and on the issue of expropriations. This particular work, Mr Kumucako - and I think we have said that several times to the Ministry, but we have never officially said so from the Step of the House - will be auctioned in 2021. In my dentistry, I can tell you more details. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] But what I can conclude, Mr President, is that I think it is perhaps the few times that we see the Ministry face up to these projects in a serious way. What do I mean by that? As you quite rightly said in your question, we have financial instruments for these projects. We can join the Recovery Fund as well. In fact, I am telling you here that it is one of the proposals that we are going to make to the Recovery Fund to integrate this project. But, even if it does not join, because the load is so great, it is a project that is almost certain that it will have no problem in joining other financial instruments, such as in the new programming period 2021-2027. Therefore, we went ahead with a project for which we had guaranteed funding and could finance it. We have not been tempted to study works without guaranteed funding. This seems to me to demonstrate the seriousness with which we are now dealing with all the Greek citizens, not announcing major works, pharaonic works without having taken the green light to finance them, because studying something, as I said to Mr Arseni, without having secured funding, is like throwing money into the ball of the useless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u76	Minister, thank you very much for the answer, not only because it was complete and clear, but also because it gives a hope for this region of Athens which is suffering traffic. I retain four points in your reply. Firstly, within the next three months, the studies will have gone ahead, it will have been finalised, secondly, that in the same time you will have gone ahead with the necessary expropriations, thirdly, that the project will be auctioned in 2021 and, above all, - and I am taking it very positively - that it was achieved by the Ministry under your leadership, the disconnection, the disconnection if you want the work of the Kymi Avenue from the point of view of the wider Attica Road and therefore by the ICTP, which has resolved your hands as you said. In your reply, however, there is something to be said: you are headed for the implementation of the project in public terms. If I conclude - I think it is right to conclude - that there is a reasonable question and it would be very useful if we could have an answer today or whenever you can: if it is public in nature, can the project users, i.e. all the people of the North Sector, but also the entire Lefkano area, who will make use of this project, the so critical, the strategic one, expect that they will not make tolls when they use it, when they make use of this new investment effort and success of the country in infrastructure? I think it is a crucial question which, if you like, arises from the evidence that you have just given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Kumucaco. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u78	We shall, Minister, if I may, give some technical features of the project to answer the very reasonable question that Mr Kumucasos has raised. We are therefore talking, Mr Koumoutsakos, about the extension of Kymi Avenue, a project which will actually end after 3.8 km on the National Road at Kalyftakis node in Kato Kifisia. There will be an underground mining tunnel of a thousand two hundred and sixty meters long and a one thousand - a hundred - metre tunnel with open excavation, that is, with cut and cover. As you quite rightly said, this project is a project that is also environmentally, if you want, the best solution to address the traffic problems that have been created in the wider region. We are doing so, as you have rightly said, and I have said so in my prototype, Mr President, as a public task. In other words, this work is being cut off from the concession contract of the Attica Road. Believe me this was not easy to achieve. There has been a very tough negotiation to achieve this, and I would say to you, for the frustration of the TIAD, which would like, because in a few years the Attica Road Convention, which has started since 1996, to include as such a dowry, as a gift and this part of the extension to the new concessionaire, namely the new competition. As soon as this work is a public project, we will not put tolls.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u79	You won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u80	We won't put tolls on a 3.8 km project. If he was on the Attica Street, we'd put tolls. We would have had to put a toll on, but the concessionaire. The whole Attica Street has tolls. We have therefore chosen the solution which, firstly, was much faster, because as you know, the Attica Road Convention does not end in 2021. At the latest, it's 2024. So we have brought this work forward three years and studied it, so that we can auction it in 2021, that is to say, start the competitive process, and because we are doing this public work, we have the option to choose whether to put tolls or not. And we choose and decide that once the road is done, that is, as a public project and not as part of the Attica Road, it will not be tolled for 3.8 km. Our government and our party, Mr President, believe that users should pay when they use motorways. But here we are talking about a small intervention of 3.8 km, absolutely essential for environmental reasons and for reasons of disarmament of traffic in the wider region. We see every day - you, Mr Kumucako and the inhabitants of the region - what is happening in the Metamorphosis hub, and this problem comes to a solution and we solve it in a way that is best environmentally acceptable - as I have said - and in a way that does not cost the users at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u81	This is a very good news at a very difficult time for the inhabitants of northern Athens!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u82	We move to the third debate under No 424/14-2-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Police fines as a means of intimidation of citizens who disagree with the installation of winds on Tinos and Andros". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Citizen Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou. Mr Arsenis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Secretary, once again we will discuss a question together, as Mr Chrysochide has not been seen - I personally - never in parliamentary control. So let it be! The issue is the use of COVID fines and police fines for intimidating civilians who participate in movements against the installation of wind turbines on Tinos and Andros. I want to be clear about history. On Christmas Eve many citizens are invited to the police station from the port to fine them EUR 300 for their participation in a mobilisation when they themselves could not even be there for practical reasons. The fines were notified because they were registered members of a movement to which they did not participate, Minister. And if, after these objections, the fines have been deleted, it is no longer necessary to start ETS on how they arrived to be called and fines imposed on citizens for an activity that they did not participate in. I think you should ask them for public apologies. Let me just say that a lady who was fined was in her pharmacy at the time because she had an on-call, another girl was in bed for medical reasons and so on. Also, in Andros, this situation continues until the time we speak. Not only have fines been imposed on people who dared to be at this hub of the globally important network of paths in Frankaki, where the wind turbine is manufactured, not only were fines imposed, but there are expressions that have been taken, that once again they and other members of the movement will accept fines. They are threats that apply to date. Recall that the opening of the road to the construction of the wind was done without building permit until now and with the escort of the police, even though there was no building permit. This is where the question arises, Mr. Secretary: does the police impose compliance with the law or protect illegal activities? For that is what we see when the work goes on without building permit. In order to be aware of the issue and the discussion, the closure of the proceedings took place three days later than the immediately applicable decision on interim measures of the Council of State, signed by the President of the Council of State. So I want to ask you to commit yourself to the self-evident, that there will be an ESA for these cases and tell me whether intimidation in your opinion can be used as a tool from the Greek Police. I want your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by carefully studying the description of the events that have taken place on the islands of Tinos and Andros, as reflected by this timely question, I find a substantial inconsistency with what has really happened, which I must restore. Indeed, on December 23, 2020, about fifty people gathered for a short time, about ten minutes outside the Tinos Police Department, protesting about the transport of wind turbines parts. This concentration, however, took place in breach of the measures in force for the protection of public health against the risk of further dispersal of COVID-19. The Greek Police officials, after they recognized three of the gathered, imposed a number of fines, which also gave them two days later. Their aim was to maintain legality, but at the same time not to escalate and trigger controversy at the time of the concentration, which is likely to jeopardise public order and security. Objections were raised by these citizens, which were examined and finally accepted, while the fines imposed were cancelled. These were the actions carried out by representatives of the Hellenic Coast Guards in the case of a protest by citizens within the terrestrial zone of the port of Tinos. Following objections to the alleged infringements, these were examined and accepted, canceling the fines in such cases too. With regard to the incident that took place in Andros on 17 November 2020, and more specifically in the construction site of wind turbines in the Frankish region, the facts are as follows: officials of the Andros Police Department following complaints from workers on that site for harassment by unknown persons, at risk of injury to an accident, were found in the area of Zaganiari, only three kilometres from the construction site, the existence of two vehicles with four persons, which did not bring the certificate of movement provided by the law, in which case they also confirmed the fines provided by the law. These persons, for which a case-file was formed following a complaint lodged by the staff of the construction site, objected to the fines at the Andros Police Department. The four objections were examined and were not accepted and two of them requested and received the minutes of the rejection decision. To conclude my initial position, I would like to point out in the most unequivocal way: First, the officials of the Andros Police Department have acted under the continuous briefing of the Provincial Syros Office. Secondly, there is no recommendation on the part of the Police Department of Andros to citizens not to approach the Frankish Andros area and nor has the imposition of a fine of a restrictive measure against the dispersal of a coronary, otherwise, has been mentioned. Finally, as regards the closure of operations for the construction of the wind park, I would point out that the Andros Police Department did not interrupt them on 2 February 2021, because the provisional order issued on that date by the Council of State had not yet come from a competent authority. The Prosecutor's Office of Prosecutors of Syros was informed, which also ordered no action to take until the adoption of a relevant decision to discontinue work and then check it out by the relevant Department of Cyclades Forestry. Thus, the officials of the Andros Police Department issued on February 4th, 2021 to the company responsible for the closure of the work of the Cyclades Forestry Department and, of course, to the closure of the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I do not understand how you can justify fines and tell us that they have been cancelled. So were the objections correct or not? What was the reason for the objection, which led to their annulment? Because at the same time it would be right to impose and at the same time to cancel, obviously it is not unless there was some sort of bias here, but it is not done. You also did not answer how police forces guarantee work without building permits. Finally, on the situation in Andros and Tinos, I am sorry, but we have a document from your services, the wider security bodies, which speak of the opposite of what you describe. In other words, we have a request that the Headquarters of the Port Corps send a document to the Port House in Tinos to promote and ask for its own actions, which describes this: "The situation has escaped from Tino on the part of the port and police forces engaged in terrorism unacceptable for today's era and creates a negative picture of the government. We are waiting for some of your interventions.’ This promoted the Port Corps Headquarters in the Port of Tinos asking for any of their own actions. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u88	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no point in continuing to remain fortified by ideas trying to cultivate the impression that there is a climate of confrontation between the citizens and women and men of the Greek Police when the society itself embracing the officials of the Greek Police in their difficult task. Some people are constantly trying to feed a record of allegedly existence of police-phobia and police rule through a brutal debate, which you will allow me not to perpetuate. With regard to your reference to the objection and the annulment of fines, I would just like to remind you that it is a procedure which is also provided for under administrative law, and that is why the objections are also provided for to a second degree in order to examine the actions of the administration. Both in the case of Tinos and in the case of Andros, the officials of the local police services acted under the current legislation, the implementation of which, as I have often mentioned and underlined, is not an option or a product of subjective crisis, but an obligation of Greek Police officials. I would invite you to monitor the issues of police jurisdiction outside the context of micropolitical or on-call impression. They are issues of the utmost importance for a modernised European society of the 20th century like the Greek one and we should treat them as such through a continuous process of making a fundamental political understanding. It is a common assumption that we are all going through a period characterised by both the crowd and the complexity of the challenges that we have to face every day. The efforts of the government and the state as a whole are constant and responsible for dealing with these problems. We are consistently and politically dignified, which society recognises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Minister. Next is the fourth question by number 431/15-2-2021 on the second question by the SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Measures to protect agricultural income from unfair practices in the sale of agricultural products and strengthen the negotiating position of producers" Mr. Red, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today's question finds the trees in the provinces of Tirnavos, Agia, Tempus and Elassonas in Larissa in almost total destruction because of the strong ice. The object is not the damage suffered by these producers the other day. I would ask you to bend to the problem, because some crops are monocultures, such as almonds, and indeed farmers are desperate. I'm coming to the topical question. Minister, ten years ago this debate would have fantasied unreal, but outside and under any legal framework. First of all, I should like to make it clear that, in time, I do not ask for the minimum guaranteed prices to be introduced, because there is a misunderstanding and the opportunity is given to those who do not believe in the protection of agricultural income, to say that the introduction of minimum guaranteed prices is contrary to European legislation. We do not want and I do not want to intervene - and we should not - in the rules of the free market. What am I asking? The insurance margins, the protection measures intended by the Ministry of Rural Development and the Government to take to protect the weak link of the chain, which is the farmer, the seller from unfair commercial practices. Of course, will someone say, what does unfair commercial practices have to do with protecting agricultural income? The European Union itself, Minister - you will know - has adopted a directive and we are obliged to incorporate it into our law by May, that is, in three months' time. The directive itself says that the farmer is the weak link, firstly. Secondly, it speaks of encouraging Member States to legally shield legislation with this directive in order to protect themselves from unfair trade practices. The aim is for there to be a minimum decent agricultural income. Today I want to hear from you - because, yes, there has been a change of leadership, but there is continuity, in view of the fact that in three months it has to be incorporated - this. What are the concrete tools to protect agricultural income and to have a decent income for our farmers, which - I am passing away - has been reduced because of the pandemic, which you know very well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Red. The Minister for Rural Development, Mr. Lebanese, will answer your question. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, on the subject of "Medea", we should say this briefly, when we saw that the entire mechanism of the Ministry, with the local services that we have across Greece, was doing what we had to do. He contacted the producers and took out the instructions they needed. At the same time, in cooperation with ELGA, the first moves had to be made and from today when the phenomenon has calmed down, the services of ELGA are next to the farmers, they are in the fields, to start tracking where and who is affected. Be sure and be sure that the Greek people will also look into it in detail and, with the means we have, we will intervene positively. I am given the opportunity today to repeat that, not only in the context of the bad weather of 'Medea', but also throughout the previous period, what the government and the Prime Minister have actually done is that it has spread practically, practically and effectively a network of protection for all Greeks and Greek workers, for the entire productive sector and of course it has been bent down and is above the farmers' problems. In 2020, we have allocated 24 billion and have so far been set aside for 2021 a sum of 7.5 billion. Measures are being continued and announced as necessary. Of the 426 million national and Community resources, which were announced to be allocated to Greek farmers, 270 million has been disbursed. In the crisis of 'Janu' - you know it very well, I realize that you are in the opposition, but it is useful that the opposition admits the state when it does its job properly - it became an unprecedented job from the ELGA. Compensation has been given in record time. Not even the people affected were expecting them. And you know very well that both your days and the days of all governments, these allowances took three and four years to be granted. At the same time, we are working at a substantial and structural level with the tools we have in the PAA and in the PAA, in other words with the CAP - and we are preparing the new CAP - but above all, in particular, the Recovery Fund, so that we can finally make substantial and major structural projects in the country, which, as you can see, will have a direct impact on the income of the Greek and Greek producer. It is also known that our policy - and this was our pre-election proclamation - is also known to strengthen the farmer's businesspeople and the verticalisation so as to increase agricultural income and, of course, to strengthen the collective patterns. We brought a law last year, we continue in this direction. That is what we are doing, and that is why we will be judged in relation to the farmers' income and his strength. You have tabled a question which is made public and, therefore, makes policy. You're here today and you've really changed your question. By changing your question you are completely coming and saying that you did not mean what you said, because what you said cannot be done. And I agree with you today. I disagree with what I see in the written text of your question. Obviously - and I am glad you say so - there cannot be a system set for guaranteed prices. We cannot - and thankfully you do not suggest it to us, although that is what you insinuate from your question - go against the common agricultural policy and face European policy. I prefer to discuss the way you have been put today and not to be pushed towards populism and lionism, which is reflected in your question. I would like to point out that our prolongation over time has supported farmers and rural women. And I would also like to point out about the history, to be recorded in the Minutes, that the Greek People's Party, the National People's Party, when it was founded, was founded precisely to represent farmers and free professionals. And when the New Democracy was founded after the Cultivation, its main fabric was farmers and free professionals. Therefore, by parties and by supporters of other opinions on agricultural policy, we do not take criticism of how we operate to defend their interests and ensure that the Greek farmer has a power from the state to have a better income.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u94	You will continue in your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u95	I will continue my response to the bill, which we are actually bringing in the next few days, in the next few weeks, into my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Minister. You'll have time in dentistry too. Mr. Red, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u97	I'm surprised, Minister. Honestly or you have not read, you do not know the directive of the European Union - I do not think - or you want to alter what I have written. Mr President, I expected to hear more about it, so that I could respond. The substance you said is a phrase. 'I shall refer to the second one for the bill that we are preparing'. You could say a lot more things to counteract now. Did you see the words 'guaranteed prices' anywhere in the written question? Why did I say so? Why do people say? "Don't ask for guaranteed prices. Not provided for in European legislation.’ That's right. I've got it. Do you, however, bear in mind what the directive says? Do you keep in mind what Spain has voted on? I sincerely did not expect you to refuse to inform about specific policies that you will implement and how you will incorporate the directive into Greek law. That is why I conclude that since you have not said specific things about the European directive, so you have not yet dealt with it. Firstly - and we expect to see whether you will respond to the dentext - do you intend to implement the provision of the compulsoryity of written contracts on the sale of agricultural products provided for by this European directive - because it is provided for, Mr Minister, here is the directive - yes or no? Secondly, will anyone who refuses to apply the written contract and will be regarded as unfair commercial practice, again in accordance with this directive, yes or no? Thirdly, do you intend, in order to protect farmers from unfair trade practices, which the Union itself says, to proceed with a clause so that a agricultural product is not sold under the cost of production? Fourthly, will price control be envisaged? What do I mean? The known cartels. Fifthly, the national authority which the European directive tells you here, what will it be, Minister? Will the Competition Committee be today? And what will be the cooperation of this committee with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the farmers? Some farmers want to denounce agreed practices. Where will they be addressed? All the European directive provides for it. And finally, I'm going to mention something that I expected you to tell me. In the second question - and you tried to alter the nature of the question - I ask: How will you strengthen the negotiating position of producers? Proposal: Storage areas, Minister, through PAA. When someone has storage spaces, he has the ability to negotiate the price. That's a concrete proposal. You said you wanted proposals. So, now in your dentistry, I don't want you to throw the ball in the crate and say we did and we know and the world knows. I want you to say one, two, three four. First, will you implement the requirement in the contract for the sale of agricultural products which the Union itself considers to be unfair commercial practice? Yes or no? Secondly, will you apply the non-sales clause below at least the large share of the cost of production? And if so, how will you apply it? Third, how are you going to build this national authority? Will it be like a Competition Committee? I want specific answers, Minister. And fourthly, how will you strengthen the producers' negotiating position? I give you one sentence: Warehouses through the new PAA. Now, of course, I expect you to say that 'Yes, we are studying it, if necessary, etc.'. I'm sorry about the intense style, I'm not like this, and I'm not talking like that, Mr President, but trying to alter the nature and purpose of the question, I didn't expect it. Disputeing is very likely. But giving an exact answer remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u98	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u99	The solvency of all of us is conquered. You have said other things in your question, but specifically here you are talking about lower product prices and a minimum price guarantee. These are written, so you can't deny them. I responded in principle to that. To come to the second part of my answer again, I would tell you when you came to the public debate, first to tell society and to us what you were doing when you were in these ministries and you yourself went to this ministry where you brought a framework that was obviously inapplicable...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u100	The cotton contract!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u101	...and not give up on us for the policy we're going to do, especially me forty days in this ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u102	See what I've done!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Red, don't interrupt. This is parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u104	That is what I have done and apologise, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u105	On the substance of the matter, however, you have to tell us about the warehouses you are building and the work you have done to ensure good prices for farmers, Mr Kokkalis. Because you realise - as I understand - that you are heard and laughed all over Greece. That's why you guys throw the ball at the platform and you're talking about other things. On the substance of the matter, however, we will bring the bill to which you have referred, which will indeed be in favour of producers and which will indeed protect against unfair practices that are being developed at their expense. It will enable our farmers to substantially strengthen their negotiating relationship and will oblige the existence of clear and clear conditions in the agreements concluded between them and the buyers for their products. It will set timelines for payments which will enable them to plan their activities and of course their overall course. This draft law will provide for a specific control mechanism for the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, which will effectively ensure that the conditions under which the draft legislation enters into force are respected. Overall, I appreciate that as long as we have worked on it - and we've worked on it a lot for the 40 days I'm in the Ministry - that in the next few weeks this bill will come that will cover all that you said in your dentistry and not in your question. I certainly hope that when this bill comes to plenary, you personally, if not your party, will vote in favour of it. Until then, it would be a good dialogue that we make it demarcate within the context of truth and always when you come to discuss with us, which, as you have seen, specifically responds to everything, you also come to tell us about the specific issues you have done in the past. I am therefore waiting for you to send us, because you have no further right to speak today, a list of the initiatives you have taken and the legislation you have voted on and their applications, to be successful in the area of safeguarding the prices to which you referred in your question. And also tell us how you protected Greek farmers and farmers from problems in reducing their prices and their potential for greater and better production. If you don't send them to us, it means that all you know about doing is opposition and that's why the people will keep you in opposition for many more years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Minister. Next is the sixth question by number 433/15-2-2021 of the SYRIZA SYRIZA Layer - a Progressive Alliance Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "In emergency measures to combat chestnut wedge due to failure to renew the programme concerned". And this question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Lebanese Cave. Because I'm interested in myself, in Mytilini, we have lots of chestnuts, this chestnut wasp is what we call the chestnut ulcer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. No, it's different. Mr President, we are surely all judged and seen. Now who's gonna laugh at is another matter. I honestly have no problem, but I did not expect you - it is not an excuse that you are for forty days - not to have the basic knowledge of some of the main agricultural issues, even though when you took over, to see that you are using cheaply populist arguments, you said something right about farmers' education. But today, I sincerely express my disappointment because I expected concrete, targeted things. You know, with your predecessor, we disagreed, but the answers were specific. And because you challenged me what we have done, I present the decision to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u108	Come to this because we don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, what the Union is now asking us to do is to do so and it is an honour for me to sign up for the mandatoryity of the contracts in cotton. And what did I ask the Minister? 'How are you going to implement it?'. A cuckoo doesn't bring spring, Minister. We started something good, go on. And now you're coming to throw the ball in the crate. So you won't succeed, honestly I tell you. The chestnut wasp is a very serious problem, and you heard the President about Lesvos. The Larissa Prefecture cultivates many chestnuts and there are also wild chestnuts, the wild brown forest. There was a very serious problem with the chestnut wedge, which is catastrophic. In 2019, Minister, Benacio made a two-year or three-year plan with every reservation, I would like to be specific, "Biological control of chestnut wedge". What we are talking about so far - I expect you to tell me - has not been renewed. For example, at the vineyards there are two thousand acres. It takes the wider region and the province of Agias and the Municipality of Tempon a three-year programme for the castania wasp at least EUR 50,000. Last year, Minister, the use of the funds was made at the expense of cooperatives, producers and part of the region. So today all these chestnut producers expect you to say whether you intend and when to implement the biological control programme in the chestnut wedge. I must at the latest - Mr Minister, I do not know if you know this - that the benefits will be obtained by May. The program can't come out in the summer for the chestnut wedge and be unleashed in November or October, harvesting chestnuts. The damage will be irreparable. So I'm waiting, Minister, for specific things. Consult your notes and notes. I expect specific things for this programme: if it has been approved, if it is on the stools to be approved and when it will be implemented. I would remind you that, until May, this particular benefit must be unleashed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Red. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u111	Because you referred to our previous debate again, I told you very specifically that the initiative you have just taken has never been implemented. And because I described the bill that we are bringing, I challenged you - and we will see, when it comes to plenary, whether you will support it - to support exactly what you have told us today and tomorrow that you have tried to do at that time. And that's where your solvency will look. If you're across the street, then...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u112	What? It's specific. You know what you'll bring?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u113	Don't interrupt, Mr. Bottle, please. You'll tell your dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u114	Sure. But what are you here? Prosecutor? Let's understand. You're an Attorney? Is that the concept of the Member's role? Well, please, please. In fact, as you and the President have said, it is one of our precious crops. As you mentioned in your question and said today, the Ministry carried out a programme to deal with this wedge, by supplying and extinguishing the parasite torymus sinensis - you did these - in areas of the country where the insect was present, particularly there in the Larissa region, in the previous years. The programme was financed by the Agriculture and Animal Health Fund in cooperation with Benakio and ELGO "DIMITRA" until 2019 and 2020, some of the last releases of the beneficial insects took place. During these years, that is, until now, seventy-seven thousand adult insects have been unleashed in a total of four hundred 20 regional units, as our service tells us. The aim of the project was to create positions throughout the territory, where the beneficial insect will develop its population, so that in the next few years there will be a natural spread. During this year, in cooperation with Benacio, sampling is carried out in the field to check precisely the presence of the beneficial insect not only in the initial release sites, but also at a distance from them, so that we can see the effectiveness of the project. Among the areas where the beneficial insect has been unleashed were the whole of Larissa and, in particular, the area of Agia and the Tempus, from what I understand from what the services have given me. What's going on now? Agiai Municipality's application for financing was advanced and approved by PAA. Following a positive evaluation by the Directorate for Coordination and Inspection of Forests of Thessaly and Central Greece in Action 8-2-1. The eligible expenditure, as I have also been informed to answer your question from the Ministry of the Environment, amounts to EUR 545 344. So, in this context, and because the programme has already been adopted, we expect those who have undertaken to implement it, this timetable. I'm at your disposal today. If you have anything to suggest to me about it, after you've run the precedent, let's see it. And you realize that the funds have been allocated. We need to see together who the most appropriate bodies are to run it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Red, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with all the appreciation, I really want to stand by the question ten seconds why you did not apply it. Knowledge is power, Minister. If you want to cause, be read. This cotton decision says it has been true since the 2020 growing season, so you have obviously not dealt with the cotton issue at all. I submitted before the decision. If you agree, apply it. It is compatible with the European directive. Chestworm wasp. You said yourself that you were involved. Indeed 2017-2019. I have the answer that the Municipality of Agias has been approved through the PAA. The Municipality of Agias did well. But with this measure of time, Mr Minister, the Municipality of Agias will be able to help the brown producers. You know that? Do you know what the difficulties are, firstly, subject to this measure? Has it been approved? Secondly, disbursement. I told you that for this disease until May the benefit must be released. So, I ask you: Benacio, ELGO, the ministry have filed a new file? What each municipality will do is to deal with it, Minister. I told you, last year at the vineyards the producers put half the cost. The same happened in Agias, Melivus. The cooperatives cost half the cost, and the region of Thessaly put it in part. So, in this respect, for the brown producers, who are hundreds, they are running at the moment, is the Ministry's programme - not the Municipality of Agias - at some point, the 'biological fight against chestnut wedge', yes or no? Another answer here doesn't go away. Or maybe I don't want to imagine the ball again in the crate. Is there this program, yes or no? I told you that for the Municipality of Agia, I know. From time to time it will be able to help to implement. He's actually joining us. But a schedule from the Department for the chestnut wedge I ask whether there is or will be. At least run it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u117	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Red, as you have seen, I am an honest man and have been placed very clearly on the issues you have raised before. I do not want to go back to the same issue. As far as this is concerned, because it is something very specific, which I am now learning with your question, I will come back to tell you exactly what happens if there is a continuation of your programme. But the briefing I received from our services is exactly the one I described to you. So if there is a second part of the programme that has been implemented, I will ask again, because I did not receive such information, to see exactly how the phenomenon will be dealt with between the one programme and the other to be implemented by the Municipality of Agias. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, too. Next is the first with number 128/34/6-10-20 questions and application for documents, the cycle of petitions - questions, the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Dearness among producers about the opacity and unequal treatment of areas in the allocation of rights from the national reserve from 2017 onwards’. This question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Spilios Lebanese. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Great, indeed, agitation and serious questions between producers, since in 2020 the opacity and unequal treatment in allocation of rights from the national reserve has continued for the fourth year since 2017, under the responsibility of OPEKEPE and the Ministry of Rural Development. This also concerns producers, i.e. injustices between producers, but also between the regions of the country. The final state, instead of putting an end to the opaque and unfair administration of subsidies initiated by SYRIZA in 2017, took advantage of the method and multiplyed the result with an unsuitable service of interests and parties. In particular, in 2017 and 2018, the political leaderships of the Ministry of Rural Development on SYRIZA, together with the party seated at OPECE, found the patent for the allocation of national reserve rights on the grounds of illegal and unrealistic and non-beneficiary criteria, with paintable areas as private pastures. It is a matter of pious, subsidisation hunters, who actually see the fields from a distance and the pastures from the map! They have nothing to do with producers. Subsequently, by Government of New Democracy 2019 and 2020, the evil path of Syriza became an illegal avenue. It was tempting, since with money from the producers' pockets customer obligations are served, the so-called 'rusphets' in common. After our question was tabled on 6 October, the then President of OPEKEPE, Mr Varras, apparently wanted to take a distance, check some cases and sent them to justice. But he couldn't get close a few days and they sent him to his house! That was, of course, the extent of the illegality and the promises which, in order to get involved, the Minister cut the farmers' subsidies by at least 10%. It's too much of an insanity! Six hundred and fifty thousand farmers and farmers have seen earliest, arbitrary and irregular reductions of 100 million. We do not only have opacity, but we also have carabinativity in the management of Community aid, because along with those who were entitled to take - which is an important number - there is another important number of them which were not entitled and taken. And to explain. We have nothing to fear. We uncovered the Kalogerica's pastures on SYRIZA, but we will also discover the dirty pastures that exist in many cases. Separate those who are entitled to it from those who are not entitled to it. We are therefore waiting for answers to the questions that the previous political leadership avoided giving since October. We have asked for the evidence to be submitted to the House in detail and not submitted. There is no posting of data since 2017 and after OPEKEPE, as required! Number, amount, beneficiary by region and category. He's not posting it anymore. Full opacity! Producers' subsidies have been illegally and unrealisticly reduced and need you as a new political leadership - and I ask you to do so - firstly, to provide all the information and, secondly, to restore the institutional and normal function of managing the national reserve. Prove by your actions that you do not approve of what has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u121	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u122	And in view of the new CAP - and I shall end, Mr President - I am clear that we are in favour of the inclusion of new producers in the system of beneficiaries, but with absolute transparency. To rule out all of these chefs who have found a way, with the evil path of SYRIZA and then the avenue, to find ground and receive subsidies without being entitled to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u123	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, may I speak without wearing the mask because there is no one underneath it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u125	If you want to take the mask off, please come to the Step. This is a plenary decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u126	All right, I'll come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u127	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. My dear fellow Member, the value of the national reserve is undeniable, since it is the instrument of strengthening the state towards our young people who enter the demanding profession and also the key to our society, as well as those who, although older, decide to deal with it for the first time. We agree on that, and as you have said, we want to have a young influx. Therefore, the distribution and the way it is created is a crucial issue for everyone, especially since, in order to strengthen our young farmers, it is essential that our old farmers also contribute substantially. The method of allocating the national reserve, as you know, as an experienced parliamentary representative, was laid down in the 2015 Decision. At that time it was decided to set up the national reserve with a linear percentage reduction of 4.5% on basic national aid. The resources for the maintenance of the national reserve shall be set out in detail in the above Ministerial Decision. With regard to your questions, which you have reiterated today and tabled in your question, what amounts have been cut in each of the thirteen regions, I am replying briefly because we have little time. In 2017, in order to cover the national reserve, there was a linear reduction of all key payment entitlements by 2.5%. 2018 was at 2%. In 2019, the value of basic rights was not reduced, since the national reserve was sufficient and in 2020 a linear reduction of 2.5% was made. I don't know where you found 10%. I will present to you today the relevant tables you have asked with great intensity, and in response to your questions about the amounts allocated per region and what producers have been given, I will submit for the speed of time all this in the Minutes. I must say that the question I found was useful, because I needed them too, so we can run them along whenever you want, but in any case, they are at your disposal from the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis (Spilios) Lebanese submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The distribution of the national reserve as a top process involving the Ministry and OPEKEPE, I agree with you, must be shielded by any suspicion of non-transparent management. That is why the Ministry's will is clear: any irregularity that has been committed will be detected and legal proceedings initiated. You raised your tone, but you're right to pick him up and we'll be together in this race, to see exactly where the irregularities exist and correct them. At the same time, because you mention the issue of the lack of available land for pastures, the government - I imagine, you will know - has already put it forward - after years on ice - the great 'project' of the management plans for grazing and has already signed the agreements with the Region of Western Macedonia, Western Greece and the former ones with the Region of Crete. In the next few days, we will sign the same agreement with Thessaly and Central Greece. The grazing plans will allow us to have a full record of pastures throughout our country, so that we know exactly what areas we have at our disposal. Finally - and in order to prevent distortions which affect our producers and to have the transparency you have mentioned - we will make ministerial decisions governing the national reserve precisely in this context of the clarity and transparency that you have referred to. I can in my dentistry, unless I have time to develop them now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u129	If he's in Stepma, let him say it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u130	Go on, you have time from dentistry, but in any case the other question is with Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u131	So the ministerial decisions that we are preparing will bring about a tightening of the institutional framework and are geared to the following actions, but if you have any other proposals, they are welcome: Firstly, there will be tightening up of penalties for those who declare untrue information, and they will be automatically excluded from the next year's process. To this day, this cannot be done, as you know. Secondly, there will be a ban on the transfer of basic payment entitlements received from the national reserve on the basis of private pastureland within the programme period. That's not happening either. Thirdly, there will be no entitlements from the national reserve to producers showing an increase of livestock, without corresponding documents, proving that they have animals, such as deliveries of milk to specific processing enterprises and reports of slaughter in the Artemis system. Fourthly, it will be compulsory to indicate the ATAK on all the declared areas. Fifthly, the electronic posting of all leases in TAXIS. Sixth, in areas where there is an excessive increase in the requested beneficiaries, there will be a horizontal linear reduction in farmers who already hold basic payment entitlements. Seventhly, the distribution of grazings next year will take into account the results of on-the-spot checks on the livestock of the previous year. Eighth, there will be a revision of the coefficients per spatial unit on the basis of the reported figures of the year of applications for 2020. It is therefore clear from the analysis I have made that we are proposing that the government's political will to stop the distortions that some producers are urging to the detriment of the other producers. I am sure that in this effort we will have you and your party supporters, as I wish all the parties in opposition. That's where we'll all be judged. If you have any other specific ideas, which we could include in this tight framework that we want to implement, as I have told you at the beginning of my speech, they are absolutely welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the general framework you have set for tackling the opacity and problems that have been encountered is, in principle, in agreement. What we must see, of course, is how this is implemented, and the most important thing is to see how we clear the previous situation to the percentage of the 'broken' part, because there is the 'clean' part and not, to God, put all producers in the same bag. However, I would like to point out the following. While the regulation provides for 4.5% of the existing entitlements in order to create the fund, the'multiple' of the national reserve, the percentages you said were also a violation of the regulation. In 2020, where did you emphasise - otherwise, where did I find it? - Mr. Vorides himself in an official statement and a statement spoke of 10%. And it's not 10%, but 4.5% and 10%. Unfortunately, that's it! And that is why the great inconvenience has been caused, and that is why the question has also been asked. Of course this may vary from region to region, but I want everything that is not in the context of the transparency that has been achieved so far, to take the path of justice - we fully agree on this - and here and here, too, a broad debate - which must also be held in Parliament, apart from the consultation that has to be done with the actors in agricultural and livestock production - we need to see the new rules in order to have a transparent integration of new producers into the system. Today, 19 February, it is the date you have to send your proposal for the new CAP and we happen to discuss this question now. We would therefore like to hear about what you have proposed and ask, in the context of your proposal, that the debate be brought to the House in order to see these rules of transparency for the inclusion in the system of subsidies for new beneficiaries, producers and not people of Kolonaki - and I would point out that, for example, they do not know the fields, which see the olives and say 'father, what are these cullings?' I imagine you know the relevant thing. I would like to make two points and close them. Firstly, you referred to the management plans. To keep the cattle in there! Do not find others in the management plans again! For God's sake, three months ago you passed a law, Law 4735. I call him a "second final", because he says in the competitive process the presidents will choose. You have chosen a temporary president - and you have rightly chosen him - to fill his void. But then, instead of doing the competitive procedure, as your law said, you sadly extended your term of office without the things provided for in your own law. I am saying this as a contradiction between what you are voting on and what you are doing. I close by saying that you went to the Ministry of Rural Development after all the situation, and you must also personally, in addition to the script that you show with your statements, implement in the context that we ask you and in the context where you see the need for a new operation to take place in the OPECE. Arrhythmia was caused in the previous period with the closure of the IACC, which could not work. He, of course, opened up for the objections. Watch out for things to be done immediately, because otherwise I predict that next time we will also have a huge problem with the operation of this particular system in the OPECE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Here, Minister, you have the floor. If you want, you can come to Stepma to speak from the seat, depending on your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u135	Mr Kegeroglu, you have now opened up very much the range of the issues you have raised, apart from your question. I would, however, like to say that I want to keep as positive that in our basic analysis we agree that we want to strengthen the real producers and put a class in this area where anarchy and distortion are concerned, precisely so that we can strengthen the real producers and so that we can finally increase the added value of our products. It is our political position - and you will see that it is our political will - that we move forward in this part as well as in the overall operation of OPECE in the direction of rationalisation. Our aim is to ensure the rights of producers and, at the same time, to protect the property of the Greek State. On this course we are moving and in this way we will be operating in the next period. You realize that when things change in some places, there may be some turbulence. These turbulences have been included in our logic. However, the key and the main one - and I understand it, this is your concern - is that we should be able to rationalise the situation that we have found before us in favour of the public and of the Greek producers. As far as the whole part of the new CAP is concerned, we are very passionate about our proposal, which will be submitted in the autumn of this year. However, with regard to the part of the historical rights - which I understand you mentioned - the intention of my own personal and political leadership of the Ministry was to go ahead with the same logic that we discussed before and in respect of the stock and the pastures, to strengthen the actual and new producers. Unfortunately, this year we do not have the opportunity to move forward with the convergence that we would like, not because we do not have the intention of doing so, but because the objective conditions were not there. We did not have time to put it into practice this year. In the next few weeks, we will be announcing a concrete convergence plan, which will cover the next year and the new CAP that you have described. However, we are in the same direction, because what we are interested in is essentially to renew the population of the primary sector and of processing, and this will also be seen in the specific measures that we have, the tools we have, so that we give more incentives, but always ensured, as I have said before, and I think we will do so together, the credibility of whatever system and, of course, accountability on our part, and also on the part of those who have in the past created these distortions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, too, Minister. You will both allow me to say that in this question there has been a parliamentary level check, Mr Kegeroglu, and therefore essential. We move to the fourth question under number 3179/441/12-1-2021 of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kegeroglou and Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on 'Support for producers excluded from the first programme and exceptional support for olive oil, which was particularly affected by the pandemic'. The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Spilios Lebanese, will answer. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, as far as your report is concerned, we are insisting on credible and effective opposition, because we consider it useful, particularly in this critical period of pandemic, in order to tackle problems and to keep people on their feet. The Minister, who has been in charge for a few weeks now, has to deal with a double problem. On the one hand, Minister, you have to deal with the bad texts from the previous government period, which is too much, and we have already asked the previous question about the distortion in a subsidy management system, but also in many other areas. The second problem you have to deal with is that the ones in the eighteen - twenty months have not been dealt with, they have not been corrected and, therefore, they have increased the problem that exists. I come to the essence of my question. The government's political decision to exclude from the support programme of the oilseed producers and other categories of farmers all producers who do not have the status of ‘mainly employed farmers’ has hit a large number of serious producers who, for typical reasons, do not belong to this scheme. It proves this to be a sloppy one. While, in all areas of business, we have talked about their support and support for the people affected, here you are talking about an allowance, a survival. I shall refer to the next item. The evidence provided by the Ministry clearly shows that this was not the direction of the European Union but the political choice of the government. The technical bulletin provided by the Ministry of Rural Development tells me that it was a request from the Greek Government. What did that do? First of all, with these rules, Crete, which has 35% on average national production, received 24% of aid, support. The second problem, even the main-professional farmers, who are beneficiaries according to your decision, for bureaucratic or other reasons have remained out. And I will also give you a letter from a producer on this matter. Also, to small farmers of a special status, with income under EUR 15 000 and with aid under 5,000 there was enormous injustice, they did not join. Small professionals, heterogeneous professionals who normally pay their taxes, their contributions, ELGA, all didn't go in because they didn't have their typical main farmer's profession. Seasonal workers, unemployed insured in the ECA did not enter. These seasons have been working since last October 2019. What are we asking for now? Two things: One is to restore those who are chiefly professional farmers have been excluded for several bureaucratic reasons from the programme that is under way. Once it was about 140 million and 127 million were made available, there is room for these errors to be corrected. The second thing we are asking is that, on the basis of the written answer given to me by Mr Economou, you should tell us whether you have investigated whether you have available resources or whether you intend to request available resources from the Ministry of Rural Development in order to support the producers affected by the pandemic, but they have not been able to be in the context of Mr Vorides' decision with the farmers' main professions. This, of course, is not only about Crete, but it is about all of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, I must confess that I was surprised when I saw you turned this question into a timely one - you repeated it again - since the Deputy Minister, Mr Economou, had given you a clear answer and submitted the documents you requested. I would also like to point out that this is an issue you have raised in the previous political leadership, taking from my predecessor, Mr Vorides, in essence the same answer you have received from Mr Economou, and in practical terms you will receive the same answer from me today. However, since you know that I am absolutely honouring you as well as the fact that you represent, I will again try to respond, in the same direction, to remind you that the government is on the same line, and that is why we are on the same line. Faithful to its project is the New Democracy Government to support all producers affected by the pandemic. So it went on for the first time - and you did not mention this today - in history - in strengthening the olive oil sector. In particular, it was decided under the Rural Development Programme to activate measure 21, with a budget of EUR 106 million. This measure has been completely depleted - unfortunately, I will add - the financial resources of the programme, being the maximum that could be given under the relevant regulation of the European Union, which provides that the maximum financial ceiling is 2% of the resources for the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development in the ESDP of each Member State. The measure was therefore decided to relate to the main occupational farmers registered as such in the register of Farm and Rural Holdings up to the end of the 2020 IACC submission. You ask why only the professional farmers were selected and not the heterogeneous and small producers joined. I can tell you that the decision to strengthen olive growers was aimed at the professional farmer, particularly in olive production, which is the biggest crop in our country. The aid was granted because their income from the pandemic was affected, that is to say, their basic activity, their only activity from which to live, was affected. The non-professional farmers, who may have been affected too, have incomes from elsewhere. None of us say, Mr. Economou or Mr. Voridis, that they were not affected by the pandemic. But they also received from other financial wents. The professed farmer, however, had no money to receive from elsewhere. That is why we have chosen to strengthen it with this measure. But I would like to remind you about history and today's debate that this measure has been accepted enormously by society. One hundred and forty-four thousand three hundred and fifty-four applications were submitted with the total amount of aid requested to reach nearly EUR 127 million. I would stress - although you know better than I do - that in the Region of Crete there has also been a great deal of interest, as the eligible were judged on the almost 30 000 beneficiaries, with a total public expenditure of EUR 30.2 million, the second largest amount allocated to the whole of Greece. The government is considering this request, which you have once again put to the House today, because it is - and you know it is - on the side of all the Greek citizens who are affected by this pandemic that we are experiencing. Every request for assistance from citizens who have not received any aid so far is within our priorities. I can't tell you anything more right now. We are vindicating and looking to find ways to strengthen the citizens who are being put in. However, it is clear what has happened so far with the measure why it should be limited, as I have explained to you today. It is also clear that our Government will find ways - and that is where we want your participation, as I said before, with substantial proposals - to cover more and more groups of our affected fellow citizens not only in the oily olives - which you and I are particularly interested in - but also in any other product, in order to strengthen the Greek producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have taken a step, but I have to tell you that in the part concerning the implementation of the programme for main-professional farmers, you will have to see the correction of what was excluded for bureaucratic reasons. I will tell you, for example, that there has been a problem with regard to the time when the AACC has drawn up the information to show the main-professional farmers. The end date was August 15th, but bureaucracy issues were resolved then. Therefore, there is a number of main occupations of farmers who were rejected, while they were beneficiaries in accordance with the decision, given that they did not appear. This is the first category, namely that they did not appear as farmers' main occupations. I'm not in a position to tell you if it's a thousand or two thousand of these people. I can't tell you the exact number. I have, as I have said, a letter from a particular producer, which I will present to you. Secondly, there is the category of small professionals, small producers who have an income of less than EUR 15 000 and aid of less than EUR 5,000, who do not appear in the table by main-professional farmers and who should receive government support. Of course, there are also people who were unemployed, but who were workers on the workers' board - they are considered workers - but when they have to work from October 2019 and their only supplementary income in seasonal work is olive oil production, they cannot be excluded from each other. So I tell you that you will have to see this framework - and you have rightly taken the step today and said that you will look at ways - to strengthen it. Of course, I would say that this is a serious step, but it cannot stay there. The services must record all the oil producers present, except for the hundreds of forty-five thousand - which have been included in this programme from European resources - and the others. Let's see who the rest of us are and see from the IAD evidence what income they have. Because they are micro-retired, employed, unemployed and micro-professionals. I say to you that we need to see this charge and I think we will agree on it. The question is to have the framework and the corresponding resources in order to implement such a support programme. Look, because you said about main-professional farmers, we always give agricultural production and main-professional farmers priority. Agricultural production, however, as you know, especially in olive oil has a multitude of producers that are not'mainly defined'. We are interested in the olive growers in Greece and the farmers. We do not only care about the 'best occupation', otherwise you should exclude them from subsidies, you should exclude them from a number of other aids. I think, however, that the right thing is what you said at the end, namely to look for other resources, to see how we support those who have low incomes and have not received aid. No one says to strengthen one who has high incomes. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u143	We're on the same wavelength. Unfortunately, even though I'd like to, I can't say much more. I just repeat that it is my day-to-day work and our work at the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to try to find resources to cover as many producer groups as we can. We believe that we need to do this, because it is precisely the most dynamic and necessary sector in the Greek economy. I also think that this government has shown that it is a government that is essentially, practically and effectively sensitive to what is said in society. I think we have proved this this year and a half that we are ruling and managing all these crises. In any case, and for the letters sent to you and for some mistakes that may have been made and need to be reviewed, I am at your disposal and at the disposal of the Greek producers, who have unfortunately suffered injustice, to review them. I wish I could tell you more and I wish it were the financial framework very different, so that we could meet much faster needs created by either the pandemic or the natural disasters. Once again, however, I would like to point out that we are doing our best in both these areas. It would be useful, although you, with your experience and the other parties, of course, have the experience that they have from governance, to find together, to suggest ideas of how we can draw extra resources not only for olive oil and olive oil, but also for other productive sectors that you are particularly interested in and we are interested in as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-19-S1-commons.u145	With the consent of the House at 13.04 p.m., the sitting on Monday, February 22, 2021, at 13.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed.
