ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] This will refer to the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and the National Resistance of our People against Violence of the Powers of Occupation. Violence in whatever form occurs, from wherever it comes, either individually or collectively organized and where it is directed, or to individuals regardless of sex, colour, religion, ethnic or ethnic origin, sexual orientation, or against peoples for reasons of imperialist, economic, political, humanity must expressly and without introduction "yes but" condemn it. So today before our plenary agenda I would like to take some time on one occasion on the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and on the other hand on the National Resistance of our People against Violence of the Potentials, a resistance we are celebrating today on the occasion of the anniversary of the expansion of the Gogopotamo bridge. Ladies and gentlemen, on 25 November, a day of resistance by the UN to any form of violence, whether verbal or sexual, was set in honor of the murder of the three Mirabal brothers in the Dominican Republic on 25 November 1960. These were against the regime of the dictator Trohill and formed the movement of 14 June aimed at overthrowing the regime while preparing brochures and improvised weapons. The group participated the three sisters known in resistance to the alias "the butterflies" along with their husbands. The day of their murder, on 25 November, was introduced by women's organisations as a Day against Violence against Women, and since 1999 it has been formalized by the UN as World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. So we all agree that the violence of any form from wherever it comes is condemned. In particular, women's gender due to the many stereotypes and establishments that are rooted in social tissues is unfortunately the most vulnerable, and I would like not only to express our support for those who have suffered some form of violence but also to encourage them to speak about what has gone through independently of the form in which it was manifested. Complaints about the exercise of racial violence have increased significantly and are a secret pandemic, while numbers are already shocking. Every day throughout the world, as we know, thirty-seven women from a member of their family are being murdered, while in Greece between 2010 and 2019 six women were murdered in the framework of anti-family violence. In the last year in our country at the time of COVID -19 due to compulsory incarceration, the incidents of violence against women by their partners have risen sharply. Also, the latest revelations of sexual harassment or violence have resulted in the sound intervention of the prosecutor of the Ice Arrow, where for the first time he opened the issue of feminine as a separate offence in the Criminal Code. The state must play a decisive role in both prevention and protection. Protection for dealing with incidents is achieved through the cooperation of all relevant bodies, justice, Greek Police, Ministry of Health, General Secretariat, Demographic and Family Politics and Gender Equality, through the operation of protective and hospitality structures for victims of racial violence and their children, through the operation of a national phone line to report incidents, but also through laws that prevent any feminine gender abuse. So under laws that our House has passed, sexual harassment at the workplace is institutionalised as a criminal and disciplinary offence and abolishes any discrimination between men and women in the private and public sectors in terms of access to employment. The victims of human trafficking are protected, domestic violence is punished, motherhood is protected, equal treatment is introduced for men and women in the course of self-employed activities, the prevention and fight against trafficking in human beings and the protection of their victims is guaranteed, gender equality is guaranteed and international cooperation on action against trafficking in human beings is promoted, gender identity is protected against violence or hatred. Actions beyond the legal framework for the protection of women have also been taken. The network of consultancy centres was extended by setting up advisory centres for violence against women in seats in administrative regions and, as a result, fourteen consultancy centres of the JRC operate today, twenty-seven municipal councils, an advisory centre of the General Secretariat of Demographic and Family Policy and Equality, and eighteen hostels of victims of violence with their children who provide free information and advisory services to all women who will return for information or protection. In addition, measures have been taken to deal with violence for victims of vulnerable social groups, such as women refugees and immigrants, as to how they will safely denounce incidents of violence. The Greek Medical Association was given the opportunity for free medical operations in collaboration with the “Smile of the Child” and the Greek Medical Association. Large campaigns were held to raise awareness among the media and social networks. Two hundred and fifty-nine local equality committees and a national gender equality board were set up. For the first time, actions are being implemented to tackle the unemployment of women victims of violence in cooperation with the OAED. It is also planned and will be implemented politically through the 'SHARE' programme, the equality system for enterprises. In addition, there is the SOS 15900 line on violence against women and to which the recipients of violence can be contacted, as well as anyone who would like to mention an incident. Violence against women must not remain in the shadows and is of concern to everyone. It does not discriminate on the basis of religion, education, social status, origin. The rates of violence - as I said - are increasing even in countries with a high standard of living, such as the ones in Northern Europe. Finally, I must point out again what I mentioned before, what all the support and gender equality organisations say, what we must not forget: 'Speak now and where you can, speak why no woman is alone'. Society is now next to every malicious woman, to every feared woman who has accepted the fate that others have chosen for her. Finally, I should like to mention - as I said before - the day of our National Resistance, which was also celebrated today and was established on the occasion of the expansion of the Gogopotamos bridge on 25 November 1942. This expansion was a leading act of the National Resistance and one of the most impressive actions of dolphins in occupied Europe, because it led to the interruption of the unique railway connection north-south in Greece for six weeks, causing a huge problem in the occupying forces, while significantly reducing the trafficking of munitions and raw materials to and from Greece. Its value was great in the struggle of the Greek people against the triple occupation, i.e. German, Italian, Bulgarian, because it restored the morality of the ordinary people, raised the prestige of the resistance organisations, contributed to their massage and pushed the national liberation struggle of the Greek people. That is precisely what we are all aware of today. Unity, condolence, solidarity, harmony, elements that make up the greatness of the Greek soul and we must all as our people show them, serve them and be proud of the material we are made of. Thank you. Ms Syregella Maria, State Secretary for Labour and Social Services, and then the representatives of the parties, will take the floor. Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, as it does every year, is internationally highly charged. This is because it gives us the opportunity for an overall account which, unfortunately, always counts victims. That is why, today, if something has to be said, we must listen, reproduce and think about it: only one day is not enough. I am sure that we all agree that no woman - victim of violence one day is enough. However, I will say that every form of harassment or violence is not only about those who are suffering it. It concerns the family and professional environment of victims, it affects the personality, dignity, honor and reputation of citizens, it puts a brake on social well-being and development. I will say that violence against women is disgraceful and, of course, violence and harassment in every form also concern the state, which, by the Constitution, has the obligation to protect our fundamental rights. That is why we all have to fight together for the elimination of racial violence and the overthrow of stereotypes every day. In this context, the new national action plan on gender equality prejudges, among other things, the prevention and combating of racial and domestic violence and includes specific objectives and actions, for the first time by all the Ministries, with a view to combating gender inequalities and the phenomenon of violence both in public and private areas, while promoting the integration of the gender into all public policies. Let me not make a detailed reference to the actions and projects that we are implementing, and we have also repeatedly presented to the committees and to the Commission the comprehensive plan that the government is implementing, which starts from the operation of the network of our structures and reaches the enlargement of the sentences of the perpetrators. We will also present today the second annual report on violence against women, which is proof of the consistent and systematic effort made by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to highlight the issue of racial and domestic violence in Greece, its tragic consequences for the victims, their relatives and the community as a whole, but also to highlight the important institutional initiatives taken to tackle harassment and violence in the personal and public life of every woman, every girl, every child. We protect and support all women - victims of violence - to regain control of their lives with our network of structures, the forty-three advisory centres, the nineteen hostel, the 24-hour line of 15500. The members of the network provide unavoidably women - victims of integrated psychological, social support, legal and labour support in cooperation with the OAED. The extension of network funding, six months before the end of the previous year, was of major importance for the continuation of quality benefits for women, especially during periods which require health protection and safety for all of us. I left for the end of the new campaign of our Ministry, the "knives" that he has experienced universal acceptance and has made thousands of, especially, young people, people and that is the great profit. The campaign is aimed at women - victims of violence, but also in their broader relative environment, stressing that from one point to the next the words of the victims are stabbed for the victims. We hear the deeds and not the words. This must be indicated to any woman who is in doubt if what she is experiencing is the willingness to enter a malicious environment, to any woman who doubts or who believes that a violent behaviour is random, is fragmentary and cannot be repeated. That is what we must tell ourselves each and every one of us when we see or suspect that we are next to us, at home, at home, in the office, in the neighborhood, a woman or a girl trying to survive in fear, in anguish, in threats. We can no longer pretend, be indifferent or tolerate any form of violence. We can't keep quiet and turn our faces elsewhere. We owe it to every woman and girl who hurt, abused or murdered. We owe it to our mothers, to our sisters, to our daughters, to our nephews, to our friends. But above all, we owe it to the future and to life itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u3	Thank you too, Minister. Ms Anna Karamanlis, Member of the Second South Athens Sector, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thirty years since the adoption of 25 November by the UN as an International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and ten years after the signing of the Istanbul Convention, the issue of racial violence has exceeded the limits of the social problem and has been characterised by the UN Secretary-General as a global pandemic, a moral offense for all and a sign of disgrace for societies. Violence against women includes any act of gender-based violence which causes or may cause physical, sexual or psychological harm to women and girls, including threats, forced or arbitrary deprivation of freedom either in public or in private life. It includes violence within the family and within society, at home, on the road, at work, at sports and entertainment sites, on the Internet. According to the UN, about one out of three women worldwide have been physically or even sexually abused. 80% of human trafficking victims in the European Union are women. One out of ten women reports she has been harassed on the Internet since the age of 15, and higher is the risk for women eighteen to twenty-nine. Violence against women and girls is an essential violation of their fundamental rights in respect of dignity, equality, freedom, security and access to justice. It has a catalytic effect on their physical, sexual and mental health, and creates obstacles to their full and equal participation in society. The impact of violence on women is not only about women - victims. It primarily affects the narrow core of the family, especially the children, with the challenge of injuries that are difficult to heal and which affect their lives dramatically, the wider family round, as well as society as a whole. Elimination of violence against women is primarily a matter of education and culture, as it affects women at all levels of society regardless of age, education, income, social status and country of origin. And, of course, despite the development of societies, it is one of the most serious obstacles to achieving gender equality, strengthening human rights and consolidating democracy. However, we cannot ignore the consequences of civil violence on the economy and development, as for the European Union, the annual cost of violence against women is estimated at EUR 289 billion, with the greatest cost resulting from the physical and emotional impacts of 56%, while criminal justice services followed by 21%, the loss of employment and economic production at 14%. Violence gives rise to the removal of women from education, employment and political life and undermines all initiatives to reduce poverty and social cohesion. Racial violence is therefore a huge obstacle to sustainable development, as has been recognised in UN Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development. Today, November 2021 and, unfortunately, a large part of society is still looking for excuses for the perpetrators, whispering and incriminating the victims, silently, turning the back or tolerateing such violence. With such culture and absurd logic, unfortunately we count victims every day, we count murders of women, we count children orphans and mothers with empty hugs. We measure losses of valuable friends, we measure smiles that have been erased by a violent and ruthless hand that no one has found a way to prevent. In here, in the area where democracy operates live, we have the supreme obligation to do all and everything to break stereotypes and create a shell of security and protection for the weakest members of our society, women, girls and all children of violence. In this fight, I'm sure we're all together. Perhaps it is one of the few objectives for which there is conscientious and universal cooperation. In this context, our Government, within the pandemic and its tragic consequences that have transformed our everyday lives, has, as one of the main priorities, set as one of the priorities the immediate implementation of actions and policies to eliminate inequalities between men and women and to prevent and tackle the heinous phenomenon of violence against women. In this context, as the Minister said before, the "National Action Plan on Gender Equality 2021-2025" was drawn up which focuses on preventing and combating racial and domestic violence, with measures and actions that eliminate violence against women and promote the necessary and effective gender equality at all levels. It operates uninterruptedly and productively a secure and stable network of structures, consisting of forty-three advisory centres, where specialised consultants provide women with free services of psychological, social, legal and labour support. There are nineteen hostels of abused women who provide safe housing and feeding to women victims of racial violence and their children. Also, to report the 24-hour global SOS Help Line "19500" that operates three hundred and sixty-five days a year on a 24-hour basis and provides advisory services both in Greek and English. It also implements a series of actions to strengthen and strengthen women's victims of violence in the labour sector, in order to ensure their financial independence so that they can reassess their self-esteem, take responsibility for their personal and professional lives and leave an area where abuse occurs. Specific actions under the Istanbul Convention have been developed, such as the creation of a tool to assess the risk of domestic violence and the study on the profile of offspring of domestic violence and the evaluation of relevant therapeutic programmes. With recent amendments to the Criminal Code, criminal offences, such as homicide, rape team, have been severed against minors. We have put an end to the tolerance for the murders of women by imposing the heaviest penalty, that is, life. In this way, we underline our unambiguous desire to protect the legitimate good of life fully without specific criminal treatment and discrimination. On this occasion, I would like to refer to the comments from the previous days on the EIG's equality indicators for Greece's last position, as was the case in previous years. We are clear that the equality indicators announced in October and, indeed, rank Greece in Europe's last position on equality issues were in 2019 and not this year. The New Democracy took the lead in July 2019, and so as not to repeat and be long on familiar issues, I will only deal briefly with what we have done to deal with violence in the year that we are going through. Remember the Greek MeToo, the Special Register for all professionals - coaches, camp workers, workers in refugee structures and so on - the mandatory codes of conduct in agreement with the social partners in each company, with provisions on behaviour and sanctions for those who do not comply with them, the special disciplinary harassment at the workplace, the Disciplinary Law and the civil servants, the doctors of the ESS, the Security Bodies. I also recall the sexual education programme in all our schools, the ratification of ILO Convention 190, the extension of the equality mark to enterprises that show increased sensitivity to violence and harassment, measures against violence and harassment at work in implementation of Law 4808/2021 on the protection of work. Enterprises employing more than twenty people are obliged to consult within the firm, adopt and make public at the workplace a policy to prevent and combat violence and harassment at work. In addition, as soon as possible in cooperation with mobile operators, the calls to the SOS ‘15900’ line are now free. The companies practically support the SOS '19500' phone line of the General Secretariat for Demographic and Family Policy and Gender Equality and the fight against violence against women. It is recalled that citizens can call for incidents of violence, racial or domestic, and for the single civil service number of 1555 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and supervised bodies. The calls from there shall be transmitted immediately to the SOS line ‘15900’. The calls in 1555 are also free of charge. The Ministry of Civil Protection and the Greek Police have developed an integrated plan for the prevention and treatment of domestic violence phenomena. Seventy-three ELAS departments deal with domestic violence phenomena, and there are special offices in all police offices in the country and six special departments. Nine hundred ten policemen have received special training to deal with the phenomenon, while the training of Greek police personnel in collaboration with the social institutions is ongoing. And since changing attitudes and attitudes towards violence against women is primarily a matter of education, the introduction of skills workshops, an innovative educational action on the themes, such as gender equality, will strengthen democratic culture, strengthen respect for gender equality and tolerance. So this has only been done in recent months at institutional level in the hundreds of hours of training for health professionals, civil protection and justice. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all here today to encourage the complaint of atrocious violence, to highlight the value of protecting life and the dignity of all women, to strengthen democracy. There's no woman in our hands, no girl feels insecure. None of us feel alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs Karamanlis. Mr. Angelos Tolkas, Member of Imathias, has the floor by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. "Five years married to the village dude and after I saved seven more years of chasing. I was forced into two abortions where I went by myself. All my left side in X-ray, two stitches on the lips, one eye half closed." It is the words of a woman from the Greek province who are condensing a life that has been stigmatized by violence, racial violence and domestic violence, the model of a sick patriarchal conception, the model of the owner, the silences. Thousands of human lives unclaimed. Women manipulated, excluded, locked in their homes, abused, traffickingd, raped, murdered. The abuse of women has taken a scourge and the multiple crisis that we are experiencing now has a classic and racial sign. Today we find ourselves counting in our country already thirteen found feminine homicides, for which there is no alibi of passion, that he killed her because he loved her, that the perpetrator's hand armed the jealousy and even more we hear or even worse reading. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has recently tabled a provision to deal with the forensic, criminal and anthropological phenomenon of feline homicide by men against women because of their gender. Today, 25 November, World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, progressive people, the women's movement, first of all, we must support principles and priorities that liberate the woman, which give her perspective so that she can participate equally in society, the family, the workplaces of work, life and exercise realism along with her sensitivities, temporality along with her will, the power with her clear gaze. The aim of today's anniversary report of the House, as well as our everyday life, must be to raise awareness of our society of criminal violations of human rights, informing about the existence and need to strengthen support structures for violence against women, the mobilisation of family and education, our proposals to eliminate the phenomenon. However, the most important thing is today to unite all our voices to encourage those who fear, those who suffer, those who do not show tolerance, to speak. And we're right next to them. The state must be extremely careful and avoid giving contradictory signals, such as the recent government's law on compulsory conscientiousness where it can even acquittalise malicious inside the family or provocative and insulting statements of political representatives. We are proposing in today's event, because we must also come with our proposals, from the state point of view, to raise awareness from an early age through special schools on gender equality and to prevent violence, special care for an online information campaign especially in young ages, and the possibility of online complaints to the competent institutions, directly accessible information on programmes and structures, protection structures for women especially in isolated, degraded and provinces where it is difficult to make a complaint, or even where a complaint can be underestimated. We need procedures and structures that can immediately mobilise and assist every woman in need and for as long as necessary, strengthen the network of structures, consultancy centres and hosting hostels to combat racial violence by extending them all over Greece and their integration into the regular budget of the central government or the OTA, support in addition to non-governmental organisations and intervention agencies active in the fight against violence against women, collecting integrated and reliable data in cooperation with state services and non-governmental organisations in order to implement the most appropriate policies, such as research on the aggression, the causes and consequences of violence, the enforcement of decisions to protect victims, the effectiveness of the programmes of violence, the number of condemnatory decisions on incidents of domestic violence, the assessment of best practices and culturally suitable approaches to domestic violence, the creation of early diagnosis and treatment of aggressive behaviour. The police, too, are the first to interfere in an incident of racial and domestic violence. A unified programme of training for police officers dealing with cases of racial violence and strengthening police teams with women is therefore needed. The initial emotional abuse in a malicious relationship is usually difficult to distinguish. Appropriate training is needed for the police, for judges, lawyers and civil servants, for psychological violence to be treated as physical violence and for the proper handling of any case, legal aid for all women who want it with immediate legal support from qualified lawyers so that it does not delay either the police or the justice without any other conditions. Particular care is needed for migrants with very small reference rates due to cultural and linguistic obstacles or even fear. Ladies and gentlemen, violence against women is next to us, and they are noisyly noisy all the time and not just when each case is revealed. The fight is permanent and everyday. We're going to tear her out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u7	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Ms. Konstantina Giannakopoulou, Member of the 2nd Western Athens Sector from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know in 1999, the UN General Assembly decided on today, 25 November, as an International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women in order to be able to raise a very important problem with a global dimension. The mere fact that at the beginning of the 21st century there is still abuse and discrimination against women to such an extent that awareness and treatment are required for the introduction of a special international day is in itself extremely problematic. However, the fact that twenty-two years later it is necessary to exist and maintain this day for a problem that is even more topical - not just that - at this time, it is simply terrifying and insulting. The existence of racial violence is a moral insult to all people. It is a sign of shame for all societies and an important obstacle to coherent, equal and sustainable development. This is a fundamental human rights issue. Women's rights are human rights. And addressing this phenomenon is a Gordian link, but it needs a clear, effective solution. Personally as a woman, first of all, and as a mother of three girls, but also as a politician, I do not hide my deep disappointment, how shocked, indeed, by the tragic many and tragic incidents of racial violence in recent years. Female murders, sexual harassment, domestic violence, online abuses against women because of their gender tend to become a part of our own, Greek daily life. Let me not mention, of course, the discrimination suffered by women in the workplace, where they continue to be more vulnerable to labour exploitation and abuse, which, unfortunately, seems to be well established, because this is also a form of racial violence. Ladies and gentlemen, thirteen women were only murdered this year in 2021 by their partners. Constantina, Caroline, Helen, Garyflalia, Crossula, Monica, Dora, Nektaria are just some of them. The need to introduce a new term into Greek reality, and I am talking about that of gypsy, highlights the scale of the problem. Whether this term is a practicable term, if some legally agree or disagree with it, if they like it or do not like it, it has no value. The aim of all should be to be able to fight similar phenomena, feminine phenomena. And we must use this term regardless of all others. It now looks like there's no logic about the size of violence against women. Silence, covertness, tolerance, fear seems to perpetuate this uncontrolled vicious cycle. Complaints seem to increase. But by themselves they are not capable of stopping the perpetrators. With pandemic and restrictive measures there has also been an increase in the phenomenon this year and, of course, an increase in the number of support lines for the victims and, as I said before, a dramatic increase in gypsies. Because it seems that, yes, many men because of stereotypical perceptions, due to mental and economic pressures intensified within the pandemic found their easy sack, its easy bag boxing: their wives and girls. And when women sometimes realize the violence and the devaluation they accept and decide to break up, they murder them. They are murdered 'cause the bad time has come', they say. They murder them "because they loved them, but they would destroy their home." So it is time, ladies and gentlemen, that the state through education and legislative arrangements help decisively to ensure respect, non-violence of human rights for women and girls. It is time to ensure full equality and gender equality, with serious and effective measures in education, by integrating the gender dimension into the curriculum of all its levels of education, with a view to non-violence, with a view to accepting diversity, with a view to respecting the two sexes. And, of course, we also need specialized training for teachers through seminars. It is time to ensure a legal framework for preventing, protecting victims and punishing offenders. And the recent tightening up of penalties in the Criminal Code, of course, is moving in the positive direction and it is something that the Change Movement has been asking for a long time now. She was in front of it, our late president, the Phofi Gennamas. It is necessary to characterise the murders of women on the grounds of sex, which is the most extreme form of racial violence, as a femininity in the Criminal Code. In this way, this crime must be seen in society and punished as a aggravating case in relation to homicide. However, this in itself is not enough because feminine murders are a previous crime, Madam President, and that is why we need a holistic and comprehensive framework of prevention and protection from the first steps in which domestic violence and abuse occur. We are calling for and need to train, properly and appropriately trained police officers for the immediate intervention of any complaints, as well as for the support of victims of violence for their safe escape route. And, unfortunately, it is true that we have seen and seen on several occasions the victims of feminine murders that sometimes, yes, the Greek Police appeared below the occasion. This is something you need to see and it must not happen again. It is also necessary to establish more advisory centres and hostels in all the municipalities in the country, with a view to easier access and support for victims of violence. The forty-three advisory centres and the nineteen hostels, which operate, Minister, are not enough. They need more. We also need - something we have repeatedly asked you through the relevant committees of this House - to have an integrated system of judicial support for victims of violence. There is a need for education, for full-scale training for workers in the health services to which the victims are subject. Special care is needed for victims of abuse and domestic violence, for women refugees and immigrants. And there needs to be special incentives, such as tax exemptions and others, for companies that employ women victims of violence and for there to be a constant campaign of information and awareness to be able to understand all Greek society, each and every one of us, that the issues of domestic violence are issues that concern us all and we all have to break the veil of silence and make a complaint where we see either in our neighborhood or in our workplace or where we are moving in the phenomena of domestic violence and abuse. I close, Mr President, by saying that the violation of women's human rights is a problem of order, it is a deep cultural problem and it is a factor of a democratic deficit. We must all be united and united, and in a constant vigilance and struggle, in order to ensure that every woman can live in the light, the opportunity to live in hope rather than in the trauma and darkness of racial violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. I will now give the floor to Mrs Liana Kanelle, a Member of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by the way, please add to the agenda today another anniversary, the one symbolised by the gorgopotamos expansion as a symbol of a single national resistance. If we had it as an official day, it would be a day of the House. By the way, you did well and mentioned it here, because if we need to remember what "equivalent role of women" means, we will bear in mind our contribution, the battle, the weapon in the hands of women of the National Resistance, the National Resistance, the National Resistance, the EPAON, the ELAS, who fought against the conqueror, pointing out that women were asked to vote for the first time in the liberated areas of Greece. So the JRC today, on the occasion - on the occasion of the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, its solidarity, its true solidarity with women who are confronted with the various faces of violence and who are forced to live in the heavy shadow that spread every day to many aspects of their lives. Workers who are daily involved with the violence of employers, anti-government laws, the management right, the threat of redundancies, the fear of unemployment. Mothers of young children, daughters of elderly parents, women and families with disabilities who raise the heavy burden of a lack of public and free services. Women's refugees, women's immigrants, who are torn apart by the wars of the imperialist interests and mechanisms that drown them in the Mediterranean with their children, who are caught in conditions which are dangerous, miserable, often murderous, with the tolerance of the European Union and the governments, between them and ours. In women who face violence, a physical, verbal, psychological violence, a harassment violence in interpersonal relations, in partnership, within the family itself. The Communist Party can only address every man, woman or man who is concerned about the phenomenon of violence and wonders about the causes that feed it and grow it and, above all, if we do not find it, we will not be able to eliminate it. The equitable indignation and anger that is timely these days, but must not only remain up to date after the thirteen murders of women, must turn to the economic and social causes that give rise to the insecurity of women and leave them exposed to the conditions that will be almost mathematically against violence and which will be its victims. The root of the problem lies in the unequal position of women, as has been historically shaped under specific economic and social factors, and has been maintained in the path of social development so far in all the exploiting societies, in all the capitalist manifestations of the system and culture. We call on the world to unite its voice into action in claiming all those economic and social conditions that will lead to genuine empowerment of women to get rid of every weight, not tied to pathogens, violent, abused relationships, to have real support for public social structures and services. We must stand by those who take a step and try to be disembodied from such relationships to ultimately ensure that all modern needs for education, work, free time, are met for a life with rights. Violence and abuse, which goes to the murder, are undoubtedly the most appalling expression of the phenomenon of violence against women. The cases of thirteen women who lost their lives through the hands of companions, spouses within the year we are going through are inevitably charging today's World Day. However, the reported murders and harassment incidents in a number of spaces and where we do not see - in the shadow, in the darkness - are multiples of these thirteen murders. They live in the dark, because we have turned our attention elsewhere. And if we do not see the ground on which the most extreme form of violence women face, we will not be able to deal with the phenomenon. Is it not the reality that shapes inequality in most of the social aspects, where social discrimination is based, what women experience? Are the violence and abuse of votes not the only ones that complement a greedy picture of society, which is founded on the barbarity of human exploitation? I would ask my fellow males to allow me time to speak here and not to have to feel like I'm talking to a café today, the Day against Violence for Women. You're harassing me, Mr. Colleague, especially today. And I'm sorry I'm forced to do this. You have not shown the requisite respect that everyone else and the others in this House have shown.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u11	My colleague is well aware of the respect of speakers. He's been in the Chamber now. Anyway, you're right. You mustn't be interrupted. Keep it up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u12	The prevalence in every way and means in the competition jungle, personal growth and success, what culture and education require today - because I have heard about culture and education before - that is to push on bodies, achieve your individual happiness, disconnect it from any collective interest, these are the values in the sepsis of modern exploiting society. These values are corroborating interpersonal relations, leaving a deep print, a mark in relations between the two sexes inside and outside the family. So through this deformative lens, the woman comes and is treated as the property of her husband, partner, friend, father. The latter considers that the man can define his wife's life - as property, not as emotion, to exert psychological pressure on her, physical abuse, to reach the point where she is murdered. On this ground, the assurances of the government representatives and the institutions that are addressing these days to women, telling them that they are not alone, that they must break their silence, that we support them, that it is an empty letter if they are not accompanied by necessary support and protection measures. Many large words, many times and well-meaning but not effective. We only have nineteen hostels for the hospitality of abused women. Do we have forty-three advisory centres, the financing of which depends on where? From European programmes, if they come, without the required scientific and auxiliary staff who acquire the experience and stay there, because this is alternating and working with contracts that have an end date and change and change and does not create that feeling that people and scientists have learned, live, have the experience and women know where they are addressed. The problem of violence against women cannot be tackled as long as one person's economic and social dependence is perpetuated by another in a marriage, a symphony of cohabitation, and even a non-legally recognised relationship. It cannot be resolved on criminal grounds alone. Here I would like to clarify that the Communist Party is in favour of tightening up the criminal framework on crimes against women, because it condemns the regime of impunity, the low percentages of the perpetrators of the offences concerned and the problematic role that the police seem to have played to date in a number of cases where women are going to the departments, meet police officers, denounce the phenomena and violent behaviour at their expense without being effectively heard. We point out, however, that whatever changes are made to criminal law, they cannot in themselves ensure the full protection of women, which is necessary. It requires economic, legal, advisory, social, educational support for women who, among other things, prevent the perpetrators from acting unnecessarily. We can break the vicious circle of violence and female inequality by walking on the path of overthrowing economic and social relations that give birth to and reproduce these phenomena. On this road we call on every man and every woman, by collective organization, to raise the protection shield, so that we can all become a safety net on the basis that a woman can draw the strength and courage to resist. For many times we have heard about the 'half of heaven'. We believe that women, like all human beings, deserve all heaven. They're not enough of crumbs. They want all the carpet of happiness. They're not enough in the patches of their problems. "They want the garment of happiness", which Breech would say. On this road we call on every man and woman to fight collectively so that she can be individually happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Canelley. Then Mrs Sophia Asmakopoulou will take the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women is a global scourge. It's a thorn for all societies. It is perhaps the most shameful violation of human rights. It is the core of racial inequality. It's nothing general and vague as many people think. It's happening next to us. It could hurt any woman. Living without fear of being violent is a leading human right. Racial violence remains a huge taboo that, unfortunately, stigmatizes not only the perpetrator but also the woman who suffers it. And this has to change. In Greece in 2021, we were faced with an unprecedented wave of feminine homicides, thirteen in total, the number of shame that shocked us all. Thirteen women fell dead by the hand of their husband or partner. And let me refer to each case separately. In January 2021 a five - year - old woman in Meskla, Chania Crete, Basilica, was murdered by fourteen stab wounds by her Norwegian partner inside her house. In April 2021, the twenty-seven-year-old Constantina was murdered by her diagnosed husband in Makrinica and killed her and her brother, leaving their child an orphan. In May 2021, the 20-year-old Caroline Crowch is spotted strangled inside her home in the Sweet Waters by her own husband's own hands. In June 2021 a sixty - four - year - old woman will fall dead of the bullets of her seventy - four - year - old husband who set her up in her home in Agia Barbara and shot her in touch. In July 2021, the twenty-six-year-old Garyfalia will be recovered dead from a marine region of Lygaria in Folegandros, where she was on vacation with her thirty-year-old friend, who was meant to be her killer. In the same month, in July 2021, another thirty - one - year - old woman was found dead in a blood lake again in her own home in Daphne. Her 40-year-old husband acted. At the beginning of August, a 40 - year - old woman was shot in her brother's tavern at the Larissa Sort of eight bullets by her fifty - four - year - old husband. A few days later in August a forty - six - year - old woman will lose her life from a forty - nine - year - old in Rethymnon who shot her in her back business with a shotgun in front of her twenty - year - old daughter. At the end of August a fifty-year-old was brutally murdered by a knife from her Georgian partner inside their apartment in Thessaloniki. Before the murder, the victim suffered a fierce beating. In early September the cemented corpse of a forty - two - year - old who were missing was revealed. The body was found in the yard of the house that lived in Kyparissia, while for the murder the thirty-nine-year-old ex-partner who fled to Romania was accused. In September, the three-year-old Dora, an instructor in Rhodes, was shot by her former partner in the middle of the street. He's running it cold with two bullets. At the beginning of October in Ververoda Argolidos, a seventy - seventy - year - old man strangled his seventy - five - year - old wife and then killed himself. The thirteenth feminine homicide in our country was the one committed at the end of last month in Ierapetra with the victim of the forty-eighteen-year-old Nectaria, with her five-four-year-old ex-husband being persecuted. They were murdered because they are women! The Vitrioli case is another terrible manifestation of violence, even from a woman against a woman. Ioanna Palispyrou, the victim of this attack, gave and gave daily lessons of strength and dignity. Violence must stop yesterday. Not now. Yesterday! As long as we cannot claim that we are making substantial progress towards equality and development. Unfortunately, it is still happening every day. Today's day reminds us that the elimination of violence against women is not a private matter. On the contrary, psychological, sexual, physical or verbal violence against women is a serious social problem not limited to borders, social or economic constraints, but to us all. It happens both at home and at work, at school, on the street, at sports activities or on the Internet. It prevents the full participation of women in every area of society, political, cultural, social and economic. But it is also an invisible crime, as a very important number of incidents are not reported. Victims are more. No one can approach the exact number, particularly verbal and psychological violence. According to UN figures one in three women sometime in her life she will face physical, psychological or sexual violence by her partner. One out of three! To eliminate race violence once and for all, education and legislation must be improved and social standards changed. It needs constant support from the state, with information to everyone and everywhere. Victims must be approached with respect for their dignity and encouraged to denounce violent behaviour, not hesitate to seek help. At the same time, we need greater awareness of the social surroundings, family, friendly or virtual towards women who suffer from racial violence. In the Greek Solution we firmly believe that our tolerance must be zero in these phenomena. I would like to close with these lyrics: “Open your heart with the alphabet. Find words that touch the soul. Spread out your hand to get love. Through your eyes to see the world from your breaths to take life. Clean of your soul the stream." We are here to support you from the pain that has nested in your souls. Talk! We're listening!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. Mrs. Apajidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today is the International Day of Violence against Women, and I am obliged to speak on two lines. The first axis is what you don't want to understand, and the second axis is what you don't want to do. It is ridiculous to try through a malicious performance to convince the Greek people that you are interested in women and their security, when you have proved throughout the country how you are interested in completing your four-year old and at the expense of your own heirs, women and men. So, I ask: How dare you say that you respect the woman when in Thrace you allow divorces to be issued on the basis of Sarah? There are women who have two and three children without getting any food. There are women who are plundering their existence because of malignant wives, who are hiding behind the legalisation of religious fanaticism that you have allowed. Your indifference to minorities is a proverb. Do you know that there are Roma girls who get married at the age of eleven and twelve? But that's what you do not see, because it falls far from Cologne's coffee and Philothei bistro. All of you who are disgraceing morals and fairs, have you seen in the hostels of abused women the lifeless look of women who have been raped? Have you wondered what is going on with too many girls living up to 600 euros a month and having to close their eyes and their souls to every abuser? What I've been doing recently in Byron is the most tragic proof - and you know very well about what I'm talking about - how wrong everything has happened. Those who have never cared, will not care today. The crocodile tears of the New Democracy mean absolutely nothing. The best thing to do, then, is what you will never do, to resign, that is, to go to elections, so that the Greek people have the opportunity to give control of their lives to real leftists and people who will really feel the pain of the other as theirs. The legal introduction of the term gypsy would give a strong signal. However, it is also necessary to create hospitality structures for victims of psychologist abuse, not only in urban centres, but also in remote areas of the province. The Government of New Democracy has a negative history. The Hatzidakis Act places responsibility on the employer for investigating harassment complaints, neglecting the possibility of being abusive to the same employer. The Tsiara Act makes it possible to condone abused parents without having sufficient security. With the preservation and lack of social empathy that characterises your Government, Mr. Tsiaras had refused to introduce the term feminism into the Criminal Code. He called for the rigour of the penalties already in existence for homicide. It was unable to understand that the term gypsy was not intended to impose distinctly higher penalties, but to identify the social causes of the crime and to despise the patriarchal way of thinking and organizing societies. But we must do much more. A special section is needed at the Ministry of Citizen Protection, which will receive complaints about how to manage sexist, misogynistic and homophobic attacks by citizens and security bodies. The anti-racist law must also be redesigned and extended with the inclusion of anti-Semitic, anti-sexual, anti-trasphobic and anti-homosphobic provisions and similar penalties for attacks and harassment. There is also a need for a strict protocol and there is an urgent need for training of the Security Councils on how to deal with complaints such as this, so that no complaint is passed unexplored. Women and LGBTK victims should be treated with absolute respect and confidentiality in order not to be prevented from denounce. It also needs the functioning of an independent body, which will investigate complaints of violence on the part of the police against women and victims LGBTK. It also needs a strict judicial ethics, so that women and LGBTK are justified by racial violence and discrimination, that they do not constitute racial stereotypes or the culture of rape a practice of defending the indictees and that special courts are set up to deal with the cases of racial violence. Furthermore, as the media are the main field of dissemination of patriarchal culture, a strict media protocol needs to be established on how they refer to the cases of racial violence and discrimination, so that social stereotypes justifying and targeting or stigmatising victims in the so-called 'victim blaming'. I would like to express my hope that even one or one of you - of the New Democracy I mean - would feel bad about what you should have done and not do. We, as a PART25, commit, however, that the protection of the woman's body and the woman's soul will be the forefront of our struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, the report on the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women has been completed. Before we move on to the next item on the agenda, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Friday 26 November 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 201/18-11-2021 topical question by MP Korinthias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Psychoyou to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "Inadmissible blockage in the operation of the new Fire Scale of Xylokastro and the anti-nuclear armour of the wider region". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 207/22-11-2021 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The evolution of the High School of Education and Technology (SPATE)". 3. Under number 210/22-11-2021, a topical question by MP B1' North Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Digital delivery platforms: Unacceptable work practices continue'. B. PERSONS OF second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 211/22-11-2021 by MP Larissa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Vassilis Kossilis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “Higher security for all, constitutional obligation of the state”. I also have the honour to inform you that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Statutes to facilitate and modernise the establishment and operation of livestock facilities, provisions for controls and sanctions and other urgent arrangements of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food’.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament 1. Neocles of Cretan and 2. by the President of the K.O. "ELLENIC VELOPOULOS" - Kyriakos Velopoulos. Today's sitting concerns two colleagues, Mr Neocles Cretan, where there are two procedural documents, as well as the request for the waiver of immunity from the Member and President of the Greek Solution of Mr Velopoulos. The report of 4 November this year was announced by the relevant Special Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed that Mr Neocles Cretan be removed in the first case-file. I'll let you know soon what it's all about. Also, by the same committee, the Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics was announced the report of 4 November this year, according to which the committee unanimously proposed that the immunity of Mr Cretan should be waived. Finally, the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report of 10 November this year, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Velopoulos' immunity should not be lifted. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide, by raising the hands or adjudicating on the request of the Prosecutor in accordance with the second subparagraph of Article 108(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2018 on this procedure, the new electronic roll-call system has been triggered. I would also remind you that your vote relates to the request of the prosecutor, namely those who wish to vote in favour or against the waiver of immunity. For anyone who wishes to do so, he can vote'residents'. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we will proceed to a roll-call vote as I have already said. The first case, therefore, concerns Mr Cretan as a doctor. At Sparta Hospital, a patient was hospitalized, who died, and the charge is for negligence, life - threatening exposure, and the lack of redemption from life - threatening. The second is Mr Cretan. It concerns a difference in a document or if at the time of a patient's hospitalization he was abroad or not, and the charge is for false testimony. It's Article 224 of the Criminal Code and for forgery 216. The debate on these two can be held at one time, but the vote will take place separately. The third case concerns the colleague and President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos. There had been some incidents in Oriokastro outside a structure that was immigrant. It is alleged that the young migrant children of the region had been mobilized. There have been some incidents and the Ambassador of the United States, Mr Piat, condemned these incidents. But Mr. Velopoulos then, in a post he made via the Internet, condemned the intervention of the United States Embassy by saying that if Mr. Pyatt has children, I imagine that these unaccompanied, too, if the girls were hurt, would react. In Greece this is how we Greeks do, above all we do not interfere in justice. The committee here decided by a majority that the immunity should not be lifted. Mr Cretan has the floor with regard to the two applications for the waiver of his immunity. If you speak from your position, please wear the mask, or come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u19	Of course, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, I have called for my parliamentary immunity to be lifted and that is because I have not learned to hide. Regardless of what I think the prosecution contains political feasibility, I cannot stand up to my own thinking and not accept and face up to the accusation in court. Now on both actions, I would briefly say that for the first time I have been acquitted, and it has been because I have operated a patient. For the second time, I will check on my decision not to operate immediately on a patient, as I decided it is very dangerous to do so at that time. So I am taking action today to say: The doctor in his daily exercise of science acts on the basis of his scientific knowledge, the rules of science, ethics, experience, skills and instinct. It is a difficult project, as it is called upon to make difficult decisions in diagnosis and also to engage in complex and therapeutic handling. It is appropriate to point out that the medical complication is not identical to the medical error. The error may result from a lack of experience, a poor evaluation of data or wrong handling. The sure thing is that there is no medical action with no risk of complication. It is also known that the general condition of the patient and any associated illnesses are adversely affected by increasing the risk of complications. The doctor must recognise the complication, inform the patient and organise in a team spirit how to deal with it. As part of the medical error in recent years, the number of sues and pipelines has risen. More often the treatments relate to surgical and invasive specialties, such as general surgery, obstetrics, gynaecology, anesthesiology, heart surgery, neurosurgery, orthopaedic gastroenterology. The consequences of this practice are tragic as, ladies and gentlemen, they lead to the exercise of defence medicine whose effects are borne by the overall health quality of the patients. The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health should deal with the deficit of decades in our country, about how medical errors are handled by justice. In the direction of resolving this most serious problem affecting the core of the medical system, i.e., the very nature of the medical practice, and in fact obliges the medical practitioner to avoid a difficult situation, especially if they have a confirmed history, the state must act directly in order to cover the responsibility of workers in the public health system by the body of their work. This coverage is a moral obligation of the state against the staff of the ESS. Medical staff in the last two years have exaggerated themselves, have given their lives and souls to deal with the pandemic. I conclude, Mr President, with the certainty that the truth always shines and with the wish that the plaintiffs have not become instruments of cheap political feasibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u20	Is there any of the colleagues who would like to take the floor for these two cases?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u21	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u22	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, while respecting the procedure for the waiver of immunity, I would like to say this: I personally am very surprised that this case is coming for the waiver of immunity five years after the fact. Usually anyone who wants to do such an act does it in the first year at least. To do this five years later, of course, it has the right but it creates huge questions about how it gets there. Commenting on a little on what my colleague Mr Neocles Cretan said, I think there may be political aspirations here in the whole matter. There was no surgery here which was done and made a medical mistake. The doctor has the right to judge - and I, as a doctor, say it - if there are huge accompanying problems for the patient not to operate. That's what he did. From that point of view, I also agree with the honourable Member that we should look at it from the point of view of justice and the Ministry of Health that a number of judges specialize in looking at these incidents, because you cannot lead each of us to the audience lightly, just because someone with political purpose is being led to sue and have these phenomena that we have today. That is what I wanted to say and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u24	Just to fill in that, first of all, the offence has not been filed. Secondly, our committee does not consider the essential merits. What you said is quite right, but it is the responsibility of the judicial authorities and not of our committee. The next case concerns Mr Velopoulos. Mr. Velopoulos is not here. Mr. Hetas has announced to me that he wants to take the floor. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are still experiencing an episode of a crisis in the complaint industry of a particular gentleman, who is now developing into pragmatism. The case is clear. It is clear, Mr President - we have also presented this in the memorandum - that it is a matter of political feasibility. Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, the President of the Greek Solution, in reply to a comment from the Ambassador of the United States, Mr. Piatt, who urged Greek justice to intervene, made this very simple comment, that we Greeks have confidence in Greek justice and that the Greek justice does not need anyone to intervene. It was clear. Clearly, then, it is politically inappropriate. Mr President, I would also like to invoke Mr L.4285/2014, which you and colleagues know very well, that to say how much and how much political person, MP, party president that citizens should be protected, does not automatically mean that it causes violence. There is no such inducement here. The case is clear. Finally, Mr President, I think that this concerns everyone. On the occasion of the case of the President of the Greek Solution, who has once again come from a procedural man, who has troubled the whole system, justice, MPs, ministers, all - who are passive and are passive - from an observatory which is no longer in existence, we must therefore - and we have also mentioned it in the Conference of Presidents - the prosecutors to filter the cases before the proceedings arrive in the House. It is not possible to trouble the House, to trouble Parliament, to trouble the officials, to trouble the already burdened and charged courts at the expense of everyone. We must safeguard, Mr President, the parliamentary position and, indeed, protect ourselves. I believe that the important part of this matter today is that we should be doing - I do not know how - recommendations. The law, which gives the prosecutors the right to filter the cases, to control them before they send them to the Greek Parliament. Well, I think, really, we're wasting our time with this gentleman again. I consider it unacceptable for all of Parliament to dance with the aims of this particular one, which I repeat has been afflicted by other colleagues in this House. It's a clear case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the vote, which, as I said, includes three cases of waiver of immunity. Ladies and gentlemen, after you have registered your vote, you have the opportunity to check and revise it by the end of the vote. For any question you may address to the Bureau or the officials responsible to help you. I would now ask that the electronic voting system be opened, so that Members may vote on applications for waiver of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau - fax colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House with which they make their votes known. These votes will be taken into account in the count which will be followed. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u28	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed. [[ELECTRONIC REMUNERATION]] The result of the vote, in order not to waste time, will be announced immediately after the count.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Single discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: "Measures to facilitate and modernise the establishment and operation of livestock facilities, provisions for controls and sanctions and other urgent arrangements of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 18 November to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and amendments. The speakers will be registered electronically until the end of the speech by the second rapporteur. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u30	The House has agreed. We'll start with the leaders. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Antoniadis, has a problem, so we shall proceed with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Tyridos. At the same time, the electronic recording system of Members who wish to speak can also be opened. Here you go, Mrs. Tyloridou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the authorisations of statistical establishments is very important for livestock production, as simplification helps to unblock the livestock world by analogous and inhibiting bureaucratic factors. But does the bill achieve the goal of decapitation? Is this a bill with solid foundations or a bill, which just comes to correct inadequate provisions of Law 4711 of your own government, which you said at the time is simplifying the procedures of the stack facilities? Is this a bill that solves problems or a bill that moves them in the future? Is it liberating Greek stockfarming or is it an attempt to appease farmers without any real reflection at a difficult time to cheer them up? And the time is really difficult, as pandemic with its economic and social consequences, the climate crisis with disasters in production and infrastructure, the explosion of electricity accuracy, oil, farmland increases production costs, and the government comes with inadequate policies, which are proved to be abundant in the payments of OPECE, with the hazelnut in the distribution of the national reserve, which you have just recognised with your circular asking for its correction and recovery of rights from abusers, the reduced grants of EUR 63 million from the last payment for basic aid, as after the sudden joint ministerial decision many farmers were found with reduced amounts or no subsidies. So there is also the blockade and exclusion of many producers from the people's markets or the delays in the compensation from natural disasters by ELGA, the phenomena of illegitimateness and Hellenisation which have been in explosion lately. In all this, the New Democracy policy seems to be unable to help to solve these problems. In this context, therefore, the current bill comes, which despite its positive points in many respects is legally perforated and politically inadequate. Since the first article, we believe that the simplification of the procedures for establishing and operating should include not only the physical but also the non-physical presence of the person. The absence from the purpose of this preamble prejudges the omission in the draft draft law of the establishment of an electronic platform at the Ministry of Justice for the establishment and operation of livestock facilities. Because these issues were also raised in the previous committees, the Minister said yesterday: 'What are you asking for? Did you look to the Ministry and do you not know that this electronic base exists?’ Dear Minister, one more reason we are asking for this is that we really do know that there is no basis for electronic recording, establishing and operating livestock units. It's probably a general department of veterinary medicine that messes things up. What exists in the computer database of herd codes for health surveillance. On this basis there is no record and there is no evidence whether or not these undertakings have a licence, whether they are approved, whether or not they are illegal. Other elements of the veterinary inspection and other elements of the electronic installation that we believe are missing from this draft law. In the next article on definitions, there are too many problematic points. The definition of clipboard structures which neither the area nor the height leaves controversial points on how a rough installation is to be defined and allows, under the controversial provision for the use of concrete which may be used individually in conjunction with the fact that a building permit is no longer required, to lead to the use of heavyer materials for such situations but of a more permanent nature. This seems to be a facility for farmers, but it has too many safety risks and leaves a very significant negative environmental footprint, without any authorisation to build thousands of concrete throughout the country. The storage areas are excluded from the operational areas, and once again the provision appears to be favourable, as it reduces distances, conceals the creation of problems and disputes, especially in tourist and urban areas of the country. The definition of clipboard accommodation is unclear as regards the operating conditions of a non-extensive rearing. For example, in a clipboard accommodation, even if the conditions of well-being are met, leave for clippery accommodation to small farms can be issued, even though proper but non-extensive rearing can be observed. In definitions, there is not the notion of livestock parks that need to be demarcated to the municipalities of the country, so that the suitable areas for livestock facilities also exist, but also the appropriate public infrastructure for electricity, water, sewerage, roads, which will relieve farmers of bureaucratic and financial burdens at a difficult time. But that really would not be easy to expect in your bill, because public infrastructure is not something you want, since this government all, even these public infrastructures, wants them privatised. And that's what you show in every opportunity. Why hide it anyway? Article 4, while rightly allowing them to operate on and on a land with the livestock plant, ovum facilities, egg packaging and processing of animal by-products - particularly biogas - does not provide for this process of verticalisation of production by processing the facility for owners, producer groups, for cooperatives. It is still not favoured to be these units in another name to the member of the same family. In Article 5 there is quite a positive one. But you are ignoring the problem of mountainous areas in the issue of establishment permits. Here there could be a 20% reduction in distances in the typical mountain communities, as is the case on the islands. Also, you do not specify who is responsible for making the zootechnical study. We believe that the owner of the zootechnical study should be a geotechnic, geotechnic or veterinarian, because we have too many examples where the zootechnical study is carried out by non-experts, resulting in problems arising in the functioning of livestock establishments, such as, for example, no containment areas for animal health programmes. In Article 6 there is no balance between the need to protect the NATURA regions, but also the need to develop a sustainable rural economy, where the farmer can be part of this ecosystem and environmental caretaker, as has been demonstrated by the devastating fires of summer. The lack of this balance is, to a large extent, due to the fact that the Government of New Democracy has frozen the forest maps and has created major problems in this regard for the authorisation of livestock facilities. New Democracy, by stopping the SYRIZA government's work on forest maps, did not only undermine forest science, it did not undermine what the Constitution did not take into account, but it also undermined the country's livestock world. In Article 8, it is good that you allow existing groups to amend to improve their facilities, for example by building a negligence centre. In Article 9 it is negative that you abolish the requirement to respect the minimum decision by slaughterhouses. This creates a lot of problems and poses risks to public health, animal welfare and the environment, as there will be concentration in places where livestock facilities will be next to slaughterhouses in large consignments of waste and waste water in these areas. It is also very negative in this article that the minimum distances from the sources of the aquifer are not determined, by the reservoirs of drinking water and only reference is made to rivers of continuous flow. In Article 10, it is positive that two months should be set for the issue of the authorisation for intervention in areas where there are validated forest maps. However, this is an incomplete provision, which is not binding and without legal effect, as no consequence is laid down if approval is not issued during this period. In Article 11, a very important article for the country's livestock world, you are reducing the fines for the arbitrary and giving an extension for their legalisation. In this case, it seems that even this very important issue is dealt with by moving in a later time. As far as Article 14 is concerned, this is a communication parody. While the Government from the beginning of its term of office and the previous leadership at the Ministry of Rural Development said that it is progressing directly in the development of the management of grazing plans, it now seems clear that you are taking the abolition of the grazing management plans. And you are getting this drunken by the Ministry's political leadership in cooperation with the blue regional authorities, as the legislature of the delegation to the Minister for Rural Development for an indefinite extension of the management plans actually brings about their cancellation. Instead of speeding up the procedures for the completion of these plans by contributing to the preservation of the integrity of meadows, the recovery of degraded pastures and the sustainable production of grazing material and livestock products, the Government is canceling any rational and sustainable management of them. In Article 15, also an article which we have explained to the committees, fishermen fishing for holocausts are obliged on their vessels to carry VMS-ERS satellite system. With this extension that you are giving while running the funding programme and too many fishermen have made use of it by using their contributions and not by fishing in areas that are not controlled you create two categories of fishermen with two metres and two weights. Most fishermen, having regard to the final extension deadline, participated in the programme and you come to justice for those who did not participate and continued to fish in areas that are not permitted without having the satellite system. Also, to say that the type of holomerates is, in addition to their economic value, an essential species for the marine ecosystem and the cleansing of the sea. Here too, what has been heard in the previous committees by a number of colleagues, I think, is a great deal of attention. There must be a quota for the species not to disappear. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if you'll excuse me, I'll be done in a minute. In Article 16 of ELGA, although you legislate the compensation up to 100% of the insured value, you do not relieve 30% of damages from pre-anthic or blooming frost, and we see that 40% of the advance goes from month to month on when it will be paid to farmers and you also present it as a panacea, when you as opposition double the deposit rate that SYRIZA gave to 70% and 80% of you called it a payoff. It is a bill, which has too many omissions and too many mistakes. I will also tell you that we have tabled two amendments in this bill. One concerns the measurement of the labels for unilateral suspensions for workers in tourism and food professions, where we ask that the signals of the unilateral suspensions of 2020 and 2021 be measured for subsidisation of unemployment. The second amendment relates to the first unemployment subsidy for these workers again, where over fifty days of work are called upon to have eighty days a year in the immediately preceding the start of the two-year grant and we ask that they also be counted here. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over by the First Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos.]] As far as the amendments you have tabled are concerned, the amendment on the recognition of newly established university departments, which has been made by our own government, there are some points on which there is a doubt. For example, not all sections are recognised. The Forestry Departments, the Departments of Forestry, the Departments of Food Technology of the Agricultural University are excluded. And leave a little window for private colleges. However, because we consider the professional rights of young people to be very important in this respect, we will vote on it. As far as the other amendment is concerned. for your land workers, welcome to reality. We've been yelling for months. The problem is real. You've left a lot of productive industries, like olive oil, without workers. Anyway, it's too late than never. We are voting in favour of the principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u32	Now Mr. Ioannis Antoniadis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, many years in the holidays. We wish the best. I heard SYRIZA's rapporteur. I wonder what's going on. If they find themselves positive, say, most of them, why strangely vote negatively? If they find most negative again, how do they explain the fact that 99% of representatives of operators, those who are actually inviting us and welcome us - why are they in real life and in fact - to agree with the bill and the only one who disagrees with being SYRIZA? Verify every day the shallow 'not all, yes to nothing'. I call on you, even at the last moment, to vote 'no' at first, to vote 'yes' in all the articles. I think you'll do that. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development: 'Measures to facilitate and modernise the establishment and operation of livestock facilities and other provisions'. In this draft law, the Government and the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development demonstrate its reflexes to malfunctions arising from the implementation of Law 4056/2012 on the procedure for the establishment and operation of livestock facilities and gives solutions to problems faced by the livestock sector in Greece. At the same time, it proceeds to improve the procedures for controls and sanctions, clarifying their status, while addressing urgent matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, such as the extension of time limits for the granting of allowances of the Greek Agricultural Insurance Agency and the extension of the term of office of its President. The main objective is the creation of a clear, simpler and adapted legal framework applicable to the procedure for the establishment and operation of livestock establishments, and corrective amendments are made to Law 4056/2012 and chronic problems arising in the authorisation procedure for livestock establishments. With the existing institutional framework and in the implementation of Law 4056/2012, the bureaucracy and the strict framework of the law, which have so far defined the establishment and operation of livestock facilities, not only have facilitated the whole process, but have discouraged both young farmers and the active ones from every effort to legalise and modernise livestock establishments. This draft law aims at the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to achieve the facilitation of the process of establishing and operating livestock facilities by introducing legislation on legalisation, in particular the rough accommodation of animals, which deserves to be seen as about 50% -60% of total livestock establishments in the country. The previous n.4056/2012 while moving in the right direction, unfortunately in practice it created problems that, combined with the non-common application framework, have placed obstacles in the authorisation process of livestock establishments and have been a brake on the development of Greek livestock farming, which could contribute significantly to the support of the Greek economy. In particular, speeding up and simplifying the authorisation procedures for livestock establishments, including rough accommodation, will enable their viability and will result in an even greater improvement in the business environment, facilitating their modernisation and strengthening of rural entrepreneurship and development, while reducing production costs. Given the importance of this legislative initiative for the modernisation of livestock facilities, the sustainability and improvement of the business environment for farmers in general, and in line with the strengthening of rural entrepreneurship, it would not be excessive to say that the arrangements in this draft law may relate mainly to farmers, but in fact they concern society as a whole. The reformed legislative framework now creates a single stable and secure reference point for the establishment and operation of livestock establishments. Simplification and acceleration of the licensing process bring about a series of direct and indirect, notably a reduction in the time needed to complete the relevant procedures and establish a new culture that is more friendly to the rural business. This encourages entrepreneurship in the livestock sector and the creation of healthy businesses, improves the products produced for both investors and consumers, builds the competitiveness of Greek agricultural production for the benefit of the country's rural economy and develops and strengthens farmers and workers in the rural economy. In particular, I would like to focus briefly on some important regulations: For the first time, the possibility of authorising a number of livestock facilities with clipboard accommodation containing polyurethane or concrete panels is allowed, since this is not the case with the construction frame of the plant. From the functional area of a livestock establishment, the warehouses and accommodation areas of the land workers are excluded. Thus, these areas are not taken into account when measuring distances and in this way facilitates the possibility for livestock establishments to be licensed. The minimum distance for livestock establishments may be reduced by up to 50% from areas or activities requiring protection, such as roads, lakes, villages, etc., provided that they are within 10 km of the border of the mainland. Simplify the procedure for the establishment and operation of Category (b) livestock facilities and below the limits of Category (b) by abolishing part of their documentary establishments, such as the abolition of a certificate of building permit in hand accommodation and the specific ecological assessment for the NATURA 2000 network areas. The possibility of modifying the authorisation to keep a livestock establishment in or near an inhabited area to improve existing animal health conditions or to modernise activities provided that the number of animals allowed does not increase or change the composition of the livestock or an extension beyond those required for that purpose. An additional extension shall be granted until 31/12-2022 in order to require that the animals concerned are kept in or near residential areas. By way of derogation from the legislation in force, Article 93 n.4495/2017, the period for suspending the demolition of arbitrary production of livestock in nine months instead of sixty days in force is hereby extended for an additional three months instead of thirty days in force, to which a licence should be presented for the legalisation of arbitrary structures of the livestock establishment. The fine imposed on the raising of the autopsy and conservation report is considerably reduced to 5% of the current 20% for the livestock owner, which legalises the related arbitrary structures. The tasks and powers of an investigation officer shall be delegated to a specific category of officials of the Ministry of Economic Control and Co-operation of the Ministry of Finance, as well as increased powers in the course of the juries of administrative examinations, ESA to make the performance of their duties more effective and more reliable. At the same time, specific hindrances are introduced to carry out checks to avoid cases of conflict of interest. Finally, administrative penalties shall be laid down in cases where the audited entities do not provide their intended assistance to the audit bodies of that service. The period for the submission and approval of management plans of the country's grazing land shall be extended from 31/12-2021 and for two more years until 31-12-2023 and the period for the submission and approval of management plans of the country's grazing land shall be allowed to extend this period by Ministerial Decision. By 31/12-2021 ELGA is allowed to grant beneficiaries up to 40% of the estimated compensation, which is entitled to the damages caused to agricultural crops by the spring 2021. It shall be extended until 31/12-2022, as from 31/12-2021 in force, the time for the completion of the statements of damage to the annual financial compensation for damage caused to agricultural crops by ‘Spring 2021’ for correspondents of the ELGA. Finally, the term of office of the President of the Greek Agricultural Insurance Agency is extended until 19-11-2022. I should like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying in conclusion that, in this draft law, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food seeks to ensure an effective, safe, flexible and modern framework for livestock facilities, as well as to reduce bureaucracy and administrative burdens in the process of establishing and operating livestock facilities, in particular as regards the clipboard animal enclosures, while seeking to resolve matters arising from the implementation of existing provisions. It supports the sustainability and modernisation of livestock establishments through the establishment of procedures under the targeted supervision of the State and encourages healthy entrepreneurship in the livestock sector. At the same time, it resolves various issues of responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, such as controls, sanctions, compensation by the ELGA and others. With these few points, I invite you all to vote on this bill and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u34	Please close the speaker record system. We continue with Mr. Apostolos Pana from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u35	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the day of the draft legislation: 'Statutes to facilitate and modernise the establishment and operation of livestock facilities, the provisions on controls and sanctions and other urgent arrangements of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food'. He referred to the first, regarding the bill, a committee from the Minister, that none of the parties put forward proposals. So I will ask you this: what have you done with the proposals and the points I myself made to you at the third session at which the debate on the articles took place? Unfortunately, nothing happened. You simply wish to highlight the shortcomings we have identified and to stay there, because from what I see the bill to be voted on is identical to the draft law for which we have been discussing for so many days. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I may have become graphic and often feel like I am repeating, but I feel obliged to the world of Halkidiki, as well as to the farmers who are active in the primary sector, to say things by their name. Recently, the Minister, Mr Lebanese - who is absent today, and I really want to wish him well and quickly to return to his duties - said at a conference that he wanted the primary sector to be a serious professional way out for young people, one - as he mentioned - of life. Four years now this sector has been constantly taking on the unrelenting blows to the climate crisis: messing, ice-cream, drought and all over again. Four years now there is no specific state development plan for what we do in the primary sector. And to say things with their name - as I mentioned earlier - I have not heard anyone really, parents who are currently dealing with either agricultural crops or livestock activities to urge their child to deal with them. Instead - and it's a reality - he advises him to stay away. Nor, however, do I believe that a child who is a farmer or a farmer may want to deal with something about it at the moment when he sees his parent make it marginally, barely, sometimes unable to meet the obligations he has. So that's the reality. And because I myself come from a rural family, I know exactly what the situation is. So the question is, what kind of way out of life was the Minister mentioned. Should I say again about the wave of accuracy and the total absence of the support mechanism for citizens affected? Should I say again about the compensation for Spring 2021, which you should have paid the 40% advance by the end of the year, as - to say this - by markerist statements, you claimed that the repayment would be made? What has gone so wrong now and is completely changing the schedule and the time of repayment completely missing? For advance payments, we see the extension. What about payback? And what do you expect from us? Admit this and disobey the reasons for this decision? Admit it, while we are well aware of the serious problems that the primary sector faces? So we have said and said it again: The adverse effects of the climate crisis together with the economic consequences of the pandemic, the wave of energy accuracy, constant appreciation and zero support on your part have led to despair of the people involved in this sector. So you are now bringing in a bill which - and we must be clear - undoubtedly resolves a number of years in the livestock sector but, at the same time, you are hiding in it issues and commitments that you have given to those farmers who have seen one year's labor lost from the frost. "The price of milk has risen," some are excited. Safe. But - I will say - count that 70% of the increase in the cost of feedingstuffs, which covers 60% of the total cost of production. And then it's the power, which is three times more than last year. I very much doubt that these people will be able to balance the revenues. And not to talk now about reducing VAT on feed, as it is a drop in the ocean of losses suffered by farmers' incomes from the energy wave of accuracy. We cannot, as a Movement of Change, cover up the tragic processes as well as the issue of pastures and their management. The regular "extension" of the prolongation makes you, in essence, responsible for the big issues that have been created in pastures by unrelated livestock farmers. You should also take political responsibility in cases where the areas mentioned above remain outside the new CFP 2021-2027 and farmers lose their subsidies. Nevertheless, I mentioned to you myself that we could consent to this article in question, provided that only the representatives of local breeders' organisations are involved in the committees for the preparation of the grazing management plans. But that's not what happened either. However, as a Change Movement we are not indifferent to the primary sector today, we are tabling an amendment to the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food with a view to introducing from 1 January 2021 the 'Agricultural Oil Card', which will incorporate the quantity of oil that the holder is entitled to. We propose that the beneficiaries of the card should be those employed in the primary sector - farmers, farmers, fishermen - and that this right should be determined on the basis of the IACC declaration by type of farming, land and livestock. We are also asking for the financial compensation of the sector mentioned by the above because of the high cost of electricity, which the vast majority of farmers and farmers are unable to cover today, thus being critically affected by both individual and total agricultural production in a number of critical sectors for the competitiveness of the Greek economy. In particular, we propose that, within the first quarter of 2022, the payment to TSE producers and GEOB be made to compensate for the high cost of electricity, as established and reflected in the irrigation accounts for the second half of 2021, up to 30% of the net electricity cost. We therefore hope that these two basic steps which we are putting forward today will be accepted, because it is the real need for the rural world that is currently in an unfavourable position. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have said that this bill has very many positive elements - we recognise this - but we cannot cut it off from the reality that the rural economy is currently facing. That is why we are asking for the support of this amendment, so that we can actually see better days for the rural world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u36	Thank you. Mr Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. [[CHANGING PAGE]] Let me make a reference before we move on to the position on the draft legislation under discussion by the Ministry of Rural Development. Today, there are seventy-nine years, 25 November 1942, which took place the leading resistance against the Nazi conquerors in Greece, that is, the expansion of the Gogopotamos bridge with a key factor in EAM-ELAS. An act that signals that nazi conquerors are not invincible and symbolizes that when people realize their power and decide to act and resist, nothing can stop them. Gorgopotamos showed the power of the people's struggle at the same time as the bourgeoismen and their allies were calling our people in inertia toward the conqueror. The exploration today symbolizes the resistance and counter-attack that presents as a necessity to overthrow the barbaric anti-grass policy and to satisfy all the modern needs of the working people's family, but also to release the country from the imperialist associations of the European Union, NATO, from the United States that pose huge risks to the people and other peoples of the region and not only ultimately to overthrow the rotten capitalist system of the farm. We're coming to the bill. The bill, as we have said in the committees, comes at a time when they have risen, further exacerbated the already accumulated problems of bio-populous farmers with the major increase, the high cost of production, whether it relates to feed, which is the main cost for farmers who have risen by more than 60%, or the enormous growth in the current with the adjustment clause laid down by the Government or, respectively, the price of oil, which has broken record and has not been provided for any substantial relief. At the same time, due to the retrospective application of the common ministerial decision on the distribution of pastures to farmers, which changed their allocation criteria, i.e. after having submitted the IACC declarations, problems have been raised in granting aid to several areas in Greece. So in the face of so many problems that have accumulated and are called upon to deal with farmers and farmers, you come and reduce this year's advance payment of the basic aid granted at the end of October, by EUR 63 million, which is 10% less than last year. A deposit that has reduced a 7% to everyone compared to last year. It is money that farmers need and conditions with the launching of production costs, the accuracy of which goes on to say that they are intensified the discontent in which they affect and the irregularities recorded in the distribution of the stock in recent years, for example because of the legislative changes made by the SYRIZA Government, which has enabled us to safeguard rights from the stock for pastures without animals. The government is now coming with the bill by amending the legislation in force and is trying to deal with the problems relating to the authorisation of livestock establishments and, in particular, the rough accommodations which are the majority since to date successive extensions have been granted and the farmers have kept the stables which had no permit and no substantial impact. So what do you want to solve through the installation and authorisation of livestock establishments? The question of land use. Questions which cannot and cannot be solved by the market and by the system you are defending - not only you, the Government of New Democracy, but also by all the other parties and those who have supported this system - once the earth is individual property, fragmented and for these very reasons cannot be resolved, and for the benefit of the social needs. That is why, as a Communist Party, we always point out that, in all the critical problems experienced by the workers and the people respectively, farmers, farmers, whatever stone you raise, you will see who the opponent is, who the guilty, who ultimately is the country's political problem. And this is about a social organisation, a social economic system that sacrifices the modern needs in the altar of capitalist gains and indestructible capitalist competition. This is therefore a state hostile to these needs. Because it is a state built to shield the profitability of the few, a state that serves a handful of parasites, exploiters of people's labour. And that's why exactly the same time is completely incompetent and embarrassing in protecting human life, people's property. It is only speedy and effective in sacrificing labour rights in order to serve investment, profits, interests of the oligarchy of wealth. And of course part of this problem is the governments that serve this system and manage state power. So the provisions of the bill, which you bring, imply the perpetuation of the carving and hostage of farmers, even those with handmade accommodations that you claim to be a solution. So at the same time and with the bill, what are you asking them for? You ask for the eye of a ovine and caprine farmer who fights for survival. In fact - as we have heard in committee - you are selling them a report that you are supposed to make it easier for them, once that a farmer's handkerchief is approved, there is still a need for a stack of supporting documents and studies. We also asked you in committee how people would have access to what is not a road to today's debate. And say they have photovoltaics, for example, in order to have power. But when there's no network, how do they make photovoltaics? Are they going to make accumulators that are needed? So the cost is ejected to heights. We are asking these questions because, when it comes to large capital, for example, renewable energy sources, there are millions of subsidies available under the various development laws that dismantle monopolies and build roads and other infrastructures. Even the MATs mobilize in order to avoid the construction of wind turbines from the Agragras to the islands. The examples are too much. Therefore, repression against people's mobilisations and at local level that oppose the installation of wind turbines. In the committee, and once again in plenary, in the final debate on the bill, we are telling you quite clearly: against the cynagon of all these documents, we say that the approval of the accommodation facilities, the clipboard accommodation, as you say, is over 50%, that the application and the responsible statement be made, and from there and beyond, the rest of the public services, which must, of course, be carried out with the necessary permanent staff and without any burden on farmers. We're waiting for an answer. You're not saying, you didn't say anything. Let's see today in the final discussion of the bill. Because that would, in our view, be a real, real relief. We have also proposed that this provision, namely that the application and the declaration should have retroactive effect, as the unacceptable joint ministerial decision on pastures should be abolished. And we say that your law has retrospective effect so that the producers with burnt veils in the fire-fighting areas, this fire lagoon that the farmers have lived and the whole of our people within the summer of Evia, Elias and go and say. We are proposing this, so that those firefighters who did not have a licence can also be compensated and now because they did not have a licence are not entitled to compensation. As also genuine relief would recommend duty-free oil for all farmers, respectively, ensuring a generous reduction in the price of the agricultural stream, abolishing the adjustment clause, subsidising feed, abolishing VAT on agricultural supplies and machinery. For example, the government's decision to give some crunchy to very few farmers and to baptise them as a refund of taxes on agricultural oil - 50 million - justly caused the outrage and indignation in the rural world, proving that the Prime Minister's election commitment in May 2019 to Larissa for a refund of fuel tax was only for farmers' noodles. And don't tell us that the budgetary conditions do not allow it, because that is what you are saying to the committee, of course you are saying in general. Because this is the permanent argument when it comes to satisfying requests made on the needs of farmers, farmers, workers and the financial conditions do not apply and allow it to be made for shipowners, big-time dealers, big businessmen, the clinical authorities, who are given them annually for a refund of fuel tax and duty-free oil over 350 million euros. So you do the same as the previous government and the previous governments, that is, you. Of course not to forget New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK, were you the ones who voted together on the third memorandum that launched the Special Consumption Tax on Agricultural Oil? It was you. Because even the sums you have announced - the Minister, for example, was put to the committee at the outset, and Mr Kedicoglou put this issue to the last committee on the second reading - for animal feed subsidies it is a mockery, since it is not even EUR 2 per ewe. At the same time as you know, very well, the cost has been detonated. Of course, the institutions have also mentioned it and you know it much better. This amount, in our view, and we have said it in committee too, cannot be less than EUR 20 per animal for small ruminants and EUR 50 for large ruminants. Corresponding relief and support to the bio-family farmer who is trying to survive his profession would be to link farmers' aid to actual production and livestock production to real livestock, to disconnect subsidies to livestock from pastures, to be promptly granted to a single dose without retention, to be irresponsible, not to charge farmers financially for the OSCE declarations, but to correct errors, not to have retroactive effect in the joint ministerial decision on pastures, which is a suffering for farmers. We have also referred to the bodies, we have also put it back to committee, here in the debate on zoonoses to prevent and compensate farmers, the shortcomings of veterinary services due to the conscious subsistence of all governments - they have been recruited for 15 years in these services - in order not only to respond to the role of monitoring and prevention, but of course to record the problems of farmers and the corresponding compensation from the vertical decline in production, as we also mentioned in the Committee on bluetongue. These measures can therefore help, not so-called technical solutions, but also the sharing of subsidies on the basis of the grassland that you have adopted and applied all the governments with the known results. As far as ELGA is concerned, the sixth article, which needs to be addressed in relation to ELGA, is a full compensation of 100% of the losses and not a compensation after six months and tell us that you have not given either the advance and that you are requesting an extension of the compensation for which you are enchanting and you should have paid 100% of the compensation. The world has said that it continues to cultivate, produce, work and has not been given a franc while fertilizer, feed and go by saying it has elevated. Finally, both the Government of New Democracy and the SYRIZA's previous ones, while you could have resolved the issues and as far as the authorisation of livestock accommodation is concerned, you did not do so and you did not do so. Because either legalised or not, farmers in competition are seeing their position constantly worsening every day. There is, therefore, a more intense daily question of their survival. In view of this, there are no illusions that solutions will be found through the markets, within the framework of this system that crushes them. For both the Government of New Democracy and SYRIZA's proposals, despite any differences in the management mix, agree on the need for interventions aimed at supporting the capitalist economy and the interests of large business groups, putting the burdens on the backs of bio-cultural farmers and farmers together with the other self-employed and workers. This is also apparent from the coarse money allocated to monopolies in the agri-food sector when the government does not meet any of the demands of the farmers affected. Farmers and farmers know, very well, that nothing was given to them by a government, but when they came out on the streets of the struggle with mass participation they had conquered. It is therefore up to them to take advantage of their strength and determination to enforce the law of their demands and to overthrow the anti-popular policy that leads them to be dismantled. In conclusion, Mr President, as we have said in committees, the Communist Party has tabled three amendments on the basis that the specific proposed measures of our amendments are in response to farmers' serious problems. The government must accept the amendments in order to alleviate the huge and accumulated problems of farmers, as we said at the outset. They are amendments - concisely - to return excise duty on agricultural oil, to subsidise and to abolish the adjustment clause on agricultural streams and to zero VAT on agricultural supplies, tools, machinery and animal feedingstuffs. And I close with this, Mr President. Yesterday, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Stylis, is not here - the Ministry, in any case, announced an amendment to us by two articles which Mr Stylis gave us. We express our strong objections to the second paragraph of Article 2. You are actually bringing the evil one - and this is not what the Minister mentioned - with this amendment, Article 2(b) of this amendment, with a general number of 1141 and with a special number of 37, from the back door to the equation of colleges with EITs on the basis of the fact that you are giving the opportunity to pursue the profession of the geopoleon to the newly established sections of a series of universities referred to in the first paragraph of the second article. But, as we have said, in the second paragraph, you are putting the equalisation of professional college rights, in other words, with the five years that it takes to study the various specialities in higher education institutions. Minister, we call for the withdrawal of this paragraph. We ask and we really want you to be placed. We are asking for this paragraph to be withdrawn. Of course we are not opposed to the first paragraph of the second article of the amendment, that the possibility of professional geopolitics rights is granted to a number of schools resulting from mergers. That is what we could agree on. But we cannot agree as long as this second paragraph exists. We are therefore calling for its withdrawal and we are asking all the parties for the amendments to the Communist Party to be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u38	We're continuing after I make an announcement. The Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad for special reasons from November 25 to November 26, 2021. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u39	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Constantine Boubas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that the draft law on primary and, above all, livestock farming and as a Greek Solution in our programme, which is thorough and substantial, gives great weight to the primary sector with arguments on the upgrading of the livestock sector as a polo of attraction and as an economic development. The point is, this bill blurs the water. He had to follow another bill, because others waited for farmers today to hear through upgrading the livestock sector and especially livestock facilities. So it is a bill that is not extreme, it does not clarify many things. There is Article 3, Article 6, Article 10, Article 12, Article 15, Article 16 and Article 17 which we shall analyse. It gives an extension of a photographic order to the President of the ELGA. The President of the ELGA must be directly involved in the matter. It's our view. He must be a farmer and have a thesis, so that he can know, understand the problems of farmers and farmers, and not just be a party in the docks because he was either a State Secretary or a political designer of the New Democracy. These photographs must also be cut in terms of extending the mandate to the Greek Agricultural Insurance Agency, the ELGA, which had to operate from two to three years. Today farmers and livestock farmers have waited. From the first euro, Minister, you are taxing Community aid. We have lost valuable soil - measure 1, measure 6, measure 2 - advisory agriculture and livestock farming are lost. The balancing, three and a half years late, we have lost 950 million euros. Advisory livestock and agriculture: The interprofessional small associations, flexible co-operation have been lost. It is not here, but at some point we must analyse them. Today farmers and farmers waited for the government to tell them "your increased insurance contributions will be deducted from costs, to have a breath of tax", "you will not pay so high a rate of solidarity tax". You have increased the income tax in recent years from 22% to 45%. And I will repeat that according to reports you can find from people who are well acquainted with the livestock sector really, like Mr Christodoulou I read, the statistics show that the livestock farming has been taken down. Over the last four years, one hundred and ten thousand livestock farms have been closed down by thirty - one thousand. Do you understand, gentlemen, what's going on? There is a fall of 28.86%. From an introduction that we are making - beware, imports, elements that you can find -6 billion euros are our imports, 2 billion euros we import for animal products. Oh, my God! We cover 30%, we don't cover, we don't have self-sufficiency. It is what the President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Velopoulos, says about the food problem that comes. Today, farmers expect you to tell them, like farmers, that the NRP by 2027 will give money for the piece of farm food in the processing stage. Are we ready, gentlemen, for these challenges, to help them? Let's go a little to the articles, but when there's this course of livestock with so many businesses putting a padlock on, how can the farmer hope that the state will be on the bunker's headline to invest? Illegal Greekisms: Not to say what happens. Milk powder, feed: We have told the Greek Solution, three, four times the mixtures of feedingstuffs. Why? Just VAT? No, the raw materials are import. I've worked for ten years at a feed factory, I have the experience of telling you about the mixtures. Canary flour from Denmark, bone meal from France, from other Scandinavian countries, and not only. When raw materials don't exist, there's still no male, clover, yodge, where farmers say where we are, what do you expect the mixture to do for cows, sheep, goats and pigs? Another big part: What do we say? Animal husbandry, organized livestock parks, tax exemptions to farmers, not in suspect areas, that you will put the furforts and photovoltaics in the forest areas of the highest well, because with Law 4685, gentlemen of the 'Blue Government', you are opening the coast of Evilos to have activities in NATURA areas. The question of a livestock unit's distance from a forest area there to discuss it, so that we don't have any land lost on grazing land. What about the pastures? Do you remember the fines that imposed us because we were violating European Union law? You'll tell me, we're entitled to the European Courts. But why have we been there and have we risked losing over EUR 300 million of livestock subsidies? How does ELGA work today, Minister? With a delay! She dies an animal, she becomes deaf, the veterinarian goes after ten days because there are no veterinarians in the area, and she can't do his scientific advice from what the animal went to. Did the wolf eat it? Which must be ten to compensate the farmer, because he is not compensated for by nine. You're calling the wolf, "Come on, eat me and the tenth!" It's a law, gentlemen, it's embarrassing, but it's a law. Or if he died of gypsy mastitis or blue fever, now waiting for farmers to take some money. Can we talk about upgrading livestock today without organising livestock parks? Where's the roadway? Can I tell you more wicked things are happening? Shepherds were delivered, because every farmer from law years ago had to leave a piece of land to go for the shepherd, the chop, the farmer. That's changed again. These are now declassified by pastures, see the area of Nigritas, Visaltia, see area of Pellas, see other areas in Evros, which were the other day in Alexandroupolis, all livestock farmers were on the streets because they lost their national stock, their livestock, because the pastures left the Prefecture of Evros, go to the Prefecture of Florins. From the Florina Prefecture, they go to Karditsa. From Karditsa they can go to some Cyclades island. What's this? There must be a direct association of livestock and livestock, sir, by transporting containers. It's a life relationship with the farmer - please - with the animals. "Aristotle, this great philosopher, is no accident. Let's go to the anointed articles now. In the first articles, first of all, we were waiting for an ELGA which would have two axes, plant and animal production. He's gonna change his whole functional model. Article 6 leaves the possibility of entering some wooded areas with L.4685. Infringement of the forest, if any, and Article 10. In Article 13 - I have not understood - there will be no penalties and administrative penalties even for slight negligence, that is, a priori, uncontrolled officials from the Directorate for Economic Control. Fines are punishable. Aren't these fines from 10,000 to 20,000 fines, Minister, in paragraph 4c of Article 13? Where are they going to pay for this? As far as materials are concerned, what do we say as Greek Solution? Listen: in Article 3 you say'materials attached to the environment'. So far to this point, to reduce the operating costs a livestock unit has. If we are to put and change the entire architectural landscape of livestock farming, we lose the great advantage of agricultural tourism, to create model Greek livestock farms with sheep and goats, with the breeds that tend to disappear, because there are no institutes for agricultural research, with the Greek shepherd. Fortunately, we have prevented this and intervened as a Greek Solution for the sterilization of the dominances, so that it can have its traditional character. If we're going to change the whole architectural scenery from the traditional mandarin or the Woe and Woe stigma. So what do we say? Traditional materials. But we're a country we don't produce straw. Unfortunately, we eat straw, we do not produce straw. Traditional materials are included, of course, in the requirements of times to reduce operating costs, to reduce the minimum distances - I said it before we discuss it - so that the area does not lose the distances that a livestock unit must have from a forest area. And what are we asking? In Article 5, it is procedural. They are the ones to be produced by the farmer for the authorisation. Simplify the procedure. Don't run from Anna to Kaiafa the farmer. It must be simplified in what you are evangelizing and considering as a digital state. That's what we have to overcome. Proceedings and Article 6. Let's go to Article 7 for the finishing work. It will not be "Yiannis drink, Yiannis buys". The work's over. Is he going to say that the work was completed to get the corresponding funding? Oh, no. There's got to be a check. What are we going to have, random sample check? If so, but there must be control, gentlemen. Is the work completed? Is it done? It is not possible for everyone to say 'I have finished' myself, that is to say, it must be an auditor and a audited link. There are some exceptions there in Article 8, with regard to please, and with regard to some exceptions, reservations about who will approve and who will decide to amend the licence. I'm sure there's got to be a connection between empty and livestock. It is of a legal nature, but a question arises here in Article 8, which you must answer to the farmer who is now seeing. Will the farmer have a chance if he wishes, which if he has an example of three hundred cats to make it three hundred and fifty? You say that because we here have found that the farmer may not be able to go to an increase in livestock. Of course, ultimate purpose, the idea, what is it? Clean-blooded register of livestock farmers. Article 10. What's going on here? Again, the fortifications, the photovoltaics. Should it not be clarified - is it not a comment on the article - in Article 10 and introduce a ban on the installation of all kinds of renewable sources, a ban on any kind of interference with forest land following fires in particular? Don't go to the sins of the past. Don't go to the sins of the past. They burned a hundred thousand acres, a forest area in Attica in the past few years only eleven thousand were declared to be resurrected, thirty - seven thousand illegal building permits in the woods. These sins are paid and if this policy with Law 4685 continues I am very afraid. She's saying and unequivocally here, not forfruits. Something else we denounced you as Greek Solution, to look into it, the Livadeas Agricultural Association. She has made a complaint to RAE because RAE gave the right to enter PV companies, convinced some farmers in Central Greece, six thousand four hundred PV applications says the Agricultural Partnership of Livadia. We are supposed to be Greek. We're humiliating and getting sources of what they say. Why is it illegal? Since they did not provide titles of ownership required by the law half. That's for the PV. I mean, come on, it's done. Very nice. Article 12. What's that now? The Minister decides everything. There is, my child, a premiere, a tendency to give the Minister a centralization of power. In other words, it must be decided on by the Commission to amend it. Mr. Georgiadis did the same to the people. The same happened in what you said about the ultimate state. You still went through this to grade one of the local authorities to make Mayor Creteau. It's not about the present. We don't have time to do this. Let's go over here. Six years behind as far as grazing land is concerned. I was a young man, and I got old. Late delay. So what do we do now? Prolongation to prolongation until the patient dies. It can't be done! Accelerate every process. The farmers should know what a forest is what is not, what a pasture is what it isn't. They're mocking the pastures. They leave one area and go to the other. Only tolls don't pay. That's how they go. Put maps on. At last, finish it. We must give our consent in part to this extension. But it had to be completed in 2015. We've got a delay for pasture for over six years. To go to Article 15 now. Sea cucumbers or cucumbers, that's what they're called. What are these? Destructors. What are they doing? They cleanse and bring a balance to the marine animal kingdom. So they are necessary for the Greek seas. What did we do? Overfishing. Now, if the Turks enter the Greek seas, which enter and take the horrors, well, 4.5 billion turf has in Asia this. What are we doing? We protect it because it's the balancer, the deconstructor. There is satellite coverage and there must be satellite surveillance to fishermen, but do not ask the fishermen for all. Where can they find so much money to modernise the trawls, the cattles, the fishcats that many come out cut? Help them. Subscribe an intrusion. We have also lost the opportunity to declare the fishing zones, what the Greek Solution and Mr.Velopoulou were calling. Make fisheries genuinely so that there is a flexibility, that others do not enter from the other side, which is not governed by European Union laws. Let's go to Article 16. Ice of 2021. Late delay. To get what? 40% of the farmers' advance payments. They don't know what to lead, from the holes they have to cover, from the ruthless operating costs, from the suppliers they owe, the feed, the drugs, the other one who made the roof because it was raining. When are you gonna pay for this? Ten months late since 2021. Immediately they had to be paid, in two months, three months, maximum acceleration of procedures. Are we going to vote? We cannot say 'do not get compensation' to farmers. But gentlemen, what have farmers been eating for so long and what are they eating? To get what? 40 percent. And we're going to ELGA - what I've been telling you, photographic device. It is your party executive that you give him an extension. Photographic devices again? Minister, put a man in charge of the primary sector, have the same knowledge, belonging to the praisers, to this group that will help. Everyone can't come in. First of all, we said it yesterday and I told the committee what did we say? The Committee, in the House, for the agricultural and livestock sectors. Don't camouflage it into Production and Trade. We cannot be a country that we invest in the primary sector and do not have a pure-bred committee of agricultural and livestock interests, which meets every month with many complex problems that it has to solve. Investment in organic livestock, innovative proposals. Come on, come on, come Aquaculture will account for 70% of the foodstuff, experts say in the coming years. What did we do? We abolished fishing schools right now like in New Machinery, such as in Messolonghi, etc. Ostrich, there are some farms. Buffalia, area of Kerkin, ass milk that we had in the organs, which has nucleotides and is therapeutic and goes to a hundred ml of 25 euros. This is income that can come to Greece from livestock farming, but there is a strategic regional planning. Don't lose any consultative measures. This is where money and money were lost. Thirty thousand businesses have been closed in the last four years? Isn't that what we're worried about? 'Cause they put on a padlock. Now you are bringing some amendments - and I conclude - in conclusion a little blurred, as far as the agricultural schools and the rural and livestock farmers are concerned. What do we call the Greek Solution? Yes, develop agricultural schools, livestock schools, cheese schools. Help small, flexible cooperatives. The association, the association, is the most important thing. There are associations of pedestrians of Crete, Naxos, Metsovo and other good cooperatives that are a model, small, flexible cooperatives. About the other thing with the land workers, what did we suggest? Work on Greek birds. EUR 50 per share and insurance contributions. Give the Greeks a job. Now everyone's coming from third countries, that is, Somalos who's got asylum here, Ethiopian or Tanzanos and is picking up olives. That's what you're doing. We want Greeks working there. And now let that the Greeks don't go. Give you a quarter of 50 euros and they'll be found. Well, livestock is an important pole, but this bill should have been followed by another bill, which would have a thorough policy on upgrading, rejuvenating, regenerating and raising livestock as well as farming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on the applications for waiver of immunity by my fellow Member Mr Neocles Cretan and on the request by my fellow Member and President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos. A total of 245 Members voted on the first case by Mr Neocles Cretan. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 243 MPs. 2 Members voted against the lifting of immunity. No one voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. A total of 242 Members voted on the second case by Mr Neocles Cretan. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 239 Members voted. On the question of immunity, i.e. 'Notice', three Members voted. "PARON" no one voted The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. In the case of Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, a total of 244 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 8 Members voted. 235 MPs voted against the lifting of immunity. "PARON" voted for 1 Member. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. The result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to the debate on the bill. We continue with the last special speaker from Mera25, Mr. Logiadis Georgios, and then the Minister will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to wish many years for all the holidays. I shall begin first of all with the big picture of GDP. Before Greece entered the European Union, the primary sector was about 25% of GDP, in 1990 it had fallen to 14%, in 2019 to 4%, when in the European Union the average is 2% and substantially, over time, the Greek governments are following the wrong European orders to shrink and depreciate the primary sector. As far as the common agricultural policy is concerned, we all know that this subsidies areas and numbers of animals, thus creates complexity and corruption, depreciates and destroys the primary sector instead of subsidizing products and products of quality. In the European Union, neither the Germans nor the Italians nor the Italians do any government. But above the governments are the colossians in every sector of the economy, who impose their interests through the lobbyies of Brussels. I'm going to read you something from "NAYTTERRIC" on October 2, 2021. 'Europe lost in the labyrinth of lobbies. Over thirty thousand lobbies roam in Brussels, meet uncontrolledly with members of the European Parliament and various officials behind closed doors. Their aim is simple, to influence decision-makers over governments, are the few companies, they are the fewer ones, who are essentially those lobbyists and through their representatives they affect the European Union. And then we come here to Greece and to all the Member States what the European Union said and what the European Union decided. It's not like that. It was decided by some lobbies behind closed doors. There are a hundred and twenty-three lobby companies that are not registered in the transparency register. A truly united lobbies Europe as stated by the "NAYTTERIC". As MERA25, we are calling for a subsidy of products and quality products with great added value. Hellenisations, for example, of milk and lambs from third countries, of oregano from Iran, the corn story from the time of PASOK's almightyness, well holds and continues. Reliability is alpha and omega. Recently we saw the falsification of the feta, for which we had also asked a timely question, the falsification of the oil. When you humiliate your products, when the castles fall off the inside, then you have no power to negotiate. The current draft law refers to legalisations for livestock establishments. Here we have the following comments: You constantly demand control mechanisms, public control mechanisms, forests, as we have heard in committee, ELGO - 'DIMITRA', labour inspections, towns, municipalities, regions, and all of this involves a sale of property and privatisation. We are neither state-of-the-art nor in favour of the unaltered private initiative. We want a public mechanism that is sound and constantly upgraded, trained and staffed. What are you doing with today's draft law, where you legalize livestock facilities? The livestock facilities will be legalised, and then, clean and ready, will be absorbed by the huge chains in the agri-food sector. Because farmers are constantly forced, like all the primary sector, to sell their land and livestock, because no government has so far made them competitive. We have very small and very scattered lots throughout Greece, in difficult mountain areas and in many small islands. The overtaxation of farmers is the result of the memoranda and the commitments you have signed to achieve the unresolved primary surpluses. The overtaxation, which has other disastrous consequences, such as tax evasion, black labour and unfair competition, also entails the destruction of the healthy part of the economy of workers and businesses. Over-taxation, accuracy, depreciation of public audit mechanisms, illegal huge interests, lead to further contraction of our primary sector and concentration in hands of very few and very large companies. For all of this, we in Mera25 are obsessed and we are against debt prison with these unreasonablely disastrous primary surpluses that you have imposed on us. Now, because of the pandemic, many European Union countries have started to promote the consumption of primary domestic products, especially in countries with nutritional adequacy. Countries with deficits in food, such as Greece, could and should, through the new common agricultural policy of 2021-2027, be able to support domestic production and consumption and, at the same time, to combat or minimise the Greekisation of agri-food products. Greece imports 70% of cow's milk, 70% of pork, 35% of poultry and 90% of beef. It is entirely dependent on the importation of such products, which makes it vulnerable to times of crisis, such as now because of the coronary and the collapse of the supply chain and the closure of the borders, our country. At the beginning of the pandemic Bulgaria supported and prioritised locally, domestically, produced products, products such as milk, meat, eggs, honey and others, promoting these products through its retail operations and putting them into the European Union a substantial veto. The European Union reacted, but it finally went through the Bulgarians. In 2019, 64,000 euros of agricultural income were declared in Crete, 59,000 euros of which concerned grants and 5,000 euros only production. We produce subsidies and not quality products. "When we go to "LIDL" and bring things up to the village, while first downloading from the village to the city, you understand that we will not live for long, and so we will again be in the next memorandum," said the President of the Union of Movers of Epirus, Mr. The Minister said at the committee meeting that this draft law is based on the following pillars: The first pillar of reforms and control mechanisms. Will we, as Mer25, ask what reforms the people's market bill recently referred to, which devaluates the small producers, the people's markets where the farmer, the small producer, must with his hands the inflated, really busted, enter the internet and upload his prices? This is not reform. Or the reform of PPC that you smashed and sold - part - which results in, among other things, the rapid increase in electricity. Last Monday, the Prime Minister here in plenary, in his speech on the accuracy he said - I read that "our goal is to maximise the value of PPC shares. But that means, now, that from PPC "D" does not exist. In other words, there is no publicity. The opposite is exactly what the founder of the New Democracy did. Then they did the same with the banks and the transport of urban and Olympic Airways, so that they could contribute to the economic prosperity of Greece. Should you rechang your statutes to tell us what you really believe? What control mechanism are we going to talk about when the problem of feta discrepancy was not found by ELGO - 'DIMITRA', but by foreigners, and it was something that we raised in a timely question? Secondly, the Minister said that it was supportive of farming during the crisis. But we're always in crisis. As we said, in 1990 the primary sector was about 14% of GDP and in 2018 it has fallen to 4% with a view to going to 2%. We are fully dependent and always dependent on others. If we are not self-sufficient in the primary sector, if we do not have to eat - just to say it - we are completely subordinate and enslaved when we are dependent on subsidies. The primary sector is 4% and its service sector is 79%. How will the primary sector be interconnected with the tertiary sector in order to show what we call Greek nutrition, which is our heavy industry, tourism, when there are virtually no Greek products and everything is imported? Greek souvlaki without Greek meat, there is no. Not meant Greek food without Greek products. Inheritability, urbanisation, the desertification of mountainous and remote regions, full dependence on imports of livestock products, all these are national safety issues. You know very well - and everyone knows - that in northern Greece and the border regions, young Greeks do not find wives to have a family because young girls do not want to get into this difficult life of rural and livestock farming. So, as MARA25, we believe that these two pillars mentioned by the Minister do not exist today, now that there is accuracy everywhere, that liquidity is zero and that the compensation which is being cut is too late to be paid. In addition to this, the banking system in its present form is highly conservative and reluctant to take increased risks, limited to the financing of only decent companies and creditors. How will animal husbandry survive that you're supposed to be so supportive of your draft law? The current draft law should have taken place after the completion of the land register and forest maps and the definition of land use. It's coming up. Forest maps, forests, grassland and rocky areas, where in Crete 70% of these areas are such, as well as in many other places, small islands of Greece, it means that we are going to make a total commitment to forest maps. The current draft law is therefore another draft law simplifying procedures with concessions to the environment and the public interest. At the same time as the state's control mechanisms are depopulated, eliminating the only tool for controlling polluting and harmful activities. The Ministry of Rural Development and Food once again tables a bill without any kind of targeting, apart from dismantling certain activities of its competence. In Article 3, there is a change in the definition of clipping livestock establishments that are transformed into forest land, combined with the modifications to forest maps and declassifications, by converting areas and plants currently considered to be temporary within forestry areas, to permanently outside. Article 4 aims to reduce the minimum distance from the structured environment. A structured environment and urban plans do not exist for all of Greece, and as we also stressed in the committee, land registers do not yet exist for customs and land use. Article 8 also makes certain surgical additions to facilitate the prolongation of operations and the final authorisation of livestock establishments close to residential areas. This article must be made clear, clear and unambiguous without the need for clarification in detail. Article 9 is supposed to modify the minimum distances between livestock establishments and premises in need of protection. It excludes military airports - where it will apply to political - and slaughterhouses from the list of distances provided for in Article 20 of Law 4056/2012. To highlight here and stress that many islands, larger and smaller, do not even have slaughterhouses like Samos. About Article 10. Here is a change in the forestry law with the addition of a suffocating limit of two months to the subordinated, as the institutions, the Forest Service, have stressed, to approve interventions in rocky and grazing areas. The Forest Service wants support in staffing and resources rather than decommissioning, due to its abandonment and serving the community as a whole. Article 11 gives an extension - and a portal - of the legalisation process characterised as arbitrary establishments. Article 14 shall re-extended the management plans for grazing. The projects which have been created are not for essential reasons of management of the environment and of the environment, but mainly for accounting purposes. The only reason why L.4351/2015 predicted was to find a stock of eligible grazing land by regional unit, the famous fifty million acres declared by the Ministry of Rural Development, then over 1/3 of Greek territory. SYRIZA's Law No.4351/2015 constitutes a serious retreat to forestry legislation, as it makes extensive areas used for grazing - which in the Mediterranean fauna are carried out within forest areas - exclusively in grazing land. About the holothuria, in Article 15. It is known that applications for authorisations for fishing grounds, regulated by Article 4.48/2018, shall be used for fishermen, to illegally, far above day fishing limits and fishing depths. The amendment aims to continue issuing licences for one year, without the necessary monitoring and recording devices, in a retrospective manner, illegal and unconstitutional. From 23-5-2021 only in Greece we have this phenomenon, to have laws with retroactive power. What credibility are we talking about, what sound investments? We only want 'hards' and there is a well-being of property. The wholethuria are the sea cucumbers, they are considered one of the finest dishes in Asia and mainly in China, where the Japanese wholethurion costs $3,500 a kilo. Located on the list of top foreign gourmet restaurants with constantly growing demand. From 1996 to 2011, the number of countries exporting the full-horse has risen from thirty-five to eighty-three, that is to say in many places to disappear because of overfishing. There are many companies, one of which Greek, with this product doing gold jobs. So we believe that this is a photographic provision for the one and only Greek company that does this thing. Article 17 rewards and extends the commander of the Agricultural Insurance Agency, despite the huge delays and in general any irregularities in the management and payment of agricultural allowances by the ELGA. 'Follow the money' is the Americans and the notion is understood. In conclusion, the problems of farmers are many and we all know them. They ask for support from cow farmers and ovine and caprine farmers. The cost of energy has been disbursed, the cost of feedingstuffs itself. Red loans and first home auctions are a tom blocked over their heads and I fear that there will be extreme reactions for which the world, the citizen and the government will not be responsible. The debts created during the pandemic, such as the Chambers, and we in Mera25 stress that they must also be deleted for farmers. The agricultural and livestock associations, recently, protested in the regions around Greece. The resolution that they have tabled states that the well-prepared situation that the Ministry of Rural Development and Food wants to present is confronted with the harsh reality experienced by all farmers in our home country, and that is why we call, as short-term support measures, for aid for the purchase of feedstuffs due to the high and protracted increase in their price, for the withdrawal of the articles of HSH 873/5593 of 265-2015 as amended by 1217/267425/27-9-2021 concerning farmers and for their reassessment, for the allocation of national reserves, for the whole primary sector, for permanently reduced invoicing of the flow of livestock establishments, without an adaptation clause and ending the representation of farmers to all supervised bodies and committees of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and for the consultation procedure for the Common Agricultural Policy 2021-2027. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u44	The Foreign Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Kedicoglou, has the floor now. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel I need to present to you again the bill, because with what has been heard by the Opposition side two things are happening. Either you know better than farmers what is good for farmers or you are completely cut off from the world of production, because those who are members of the Committee on Production and Trade will remember what the bodies said about the bill. In the vast majority of them their comments were almost bisy. They termed it 'positive'. Some have said so: 'excessively positive'. So let me present it to you again, as I feel the need. This bill solves years of problems that have arisen during the implementation of Law 4056/2012 and from the non-complete implementation framework which were a brake during the authorisation of livestock establishments and a blocking factor for the development and development of Greek livestock farming, a sector which contributes significantly to the support of the Greek economy, such as the primary sector in general. For us, the primary sector is the foundation of our economy and our society. So we'll give the identity of the bill. It concerns livestock establishments, with rough accommodations which account for approximately 50% to 60% of all livestock establishments in the country. It aims, firstly, to speed up and simplify their licensing procedures, secondly to their sustainability, thirdly to further improve the business environment, by facilitating their modernisation and, fourthly, to strengthen rural entrepreneurship and growth. Our aim is to highlight the farmer, the farmer, as a new social model by giving him the necessary supplies. Which bodies or population groups are involved? The regulations concern, of course, mainly our farmers, but also consumers, as well as because of the increased entrepreneurship and the competitiveness it entails, the whole of the country's society and economy, as well as the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and its employees. At this point I would like once again to thank the members of the committee for the fruitful dialogue, but above all the representatives of the bodies who have contributed substantially and literally, as they have reconciled the draft law to the vote. Their vast majority, as I said before, found that it is not only in the positive direction, namely, the resolution of chronic problems and the survival of our farmers, but also a tool for the real development of their profession, their economic and business development. The government and the Prime Minister have personally demonstrated that he is not only listening and always in open dialogue with the actors in the productive sector, but he does not hesitate to innovate, to proceed with brave solutions, when and wherever necessary. We are here to listen, to debate, to reconcile every proposal aimed at supporting the primary sector, development and development. The proposals made and recorded by the institutions will be taken into account. Dialogue does not stop by voting for the bill, as I will point out below, but is open, lasting and continuous. We hope, in fact, for further close cooperation with them. It was characteristic that, while the whole of the bodies were speaking warmly through our farmers' representatives on the new bill and on the guarantee given for the first time to the small- and medium-sized farmers, we heard that no special effort was being made to solve the problem with farmers who have a small turnover which is the large majority of farmers in the country, but that large livestock units are allegedly being favoured with the large tours, that is to say, contrary to what the bill you have in front of you and the livestock establishments, with an approximate 50% to 60% of the country's livestock establishments. I mean, opposition to the opposition! At the same time - a oxymomile! - We also heard that this bill belongs to the Opposition, not the government, and that we should not take credit! Ladies and gentlemen, the credit is mainly for our farmers who, either as critics, give life to the barren and remote regions of our country, or as forest guards, guard our forests and protect our forests, or as a moving livestock they unite with their own common tradition and history. The credit belongs to those who have spent so many years in their clipping accommodations - most of them do - who today we call on you to legitimise, work at night, with snow, with drought and produce wealth for all of us. This wealth of the primary sector that we have been overlooking for many years, decades, I would say, has come the economic crisis to appreciate and we must support it, help it in practice, develop it, develop it. This work is the beginning of this bill. That's why he has an I.D. on this bill. Let me briefly outline the basic provisions. The first chapter is the purpose and object, as I told you. It is the simplification of the establishment and operation of livestock facilities to address both the chronic issues of livestock production and the current challenges presented by this site, to improve controls and sanctions procedures and to resolve urgent issues of responsibility of our Ministry. The purpose of this law is to amend the framework for the establishment and operation of livestock establishments. It is also clear that the system of controls is being carried out and we are dealing with issues relating to the functioning of the ELGA. The second chapter includes measures to facilitate and modernise the establishment and operation of livestock establishments. The provisions of Law 4056 on the establishment and operation are amended and supplemented. The aim is to create a clear, simpler and adapted legal framework for the procedure for the establishment and operation of livestock establishments. Corrigendums to Law 4056 are also being made and chronic problems encountered during the authorisation procedure. In particular, Articles 3 to 9 update the concept of definitions concerning the clipboard accommodation of animals and the functionality of livestock establishments. In particular, for the first time, a number of livestock establishments with clipboard accommodation containing polyurethane or concrete panels are allowed to be licensed, in so far as this is not the case with the construction frame of the plant. Operational space excludes land workers' warehouses and housing facilities. Thus, these spaces are not taken into account when measuring distances and licensing is facilitated. The minimum distance for livestock establishments of up to 50% from sites or activities requiring protection, such as roads, lakes and schools, may be reduced, provided that such establishments are up to 10 km from the border of the mainland. The procedure for establishing and operating livestock facilities in category B and below the limits of Category B, namely our small- and medium-sized farmers, is simplified - to be understood, to be made clear - by removing part of their supporting documents, by abolishing the exemption from building permits to the clipboard accommodation and the specific ecological assessment for the NATURA network areas. The possibility of modifying the authorisation to keep the livestock in or nearby of residential areas to improve existing animal health conditions or to modernise activities, provided that there is no increase in the number of farmed animals or a change in the composition of livestock or an extension beyond those required for that purpose. An additional extension shall be granted until 31/12-2022 of the livestock farmers mentioned above to request the maintenance of the livestock establishments in or near residential areas. Articles 10 and 11 shall, by way of derogation from the legislation in force, extend the period of suspension of the arbitrary building of a livestock establishment to nine months instead of sixty days in force until now, with the possibility of extending an additional three months instead of the thirty days in force until now. A licence should then be issued for the legalisation of arbitrary structures. The fine imposed on the creation of the autopsy and conservation report is considerably reduced to 5% of 20%, currently in the owner of the livestock establishment, which legalises the arbitrary concerned. I imagine you'll all agree with this arrangement. Now, the third chapter mentions the provisions on controls and sanctions. This chapter regulates issues relating to the carrying out of checks and the imposition of sanctions for the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. In particular, Article 12 shall redefined the competent bodies responsible for recommending the imposition of administrative penalties for infringements of plant protection products, plant protection residues and the rational use of pesticides. Article 13 confers tasks and powers of an interrogative official to a specific category of officials of our Ministry of Economic Control and Co-operation, as well as increased powers in the course of a juror of administrative examinations, in order to make the performance of their duties more effective and reliable. At the same time, specific hindrances are introduced to carry out checks in order to avoid cases of conflict of interest. Finally, administrative penalties shall be laid down for cases where the audited entities do not provide their intended assistance to the audit bodies of that service. In the fourth chapter, we have the other urgent arrangements for our Ministry. In particular, we have urgent issues concerning the management plans for grazing and the fishing authorisations for wholesomes. There are also issues relating to the action and operation of the Greek Agricultural Insurance Agency. In this way, specific problems are resolved concerning the completion of the procedure for approving the management plans for grazing, as well as a short-term extension of the time limit for the placing of satellite tracking and electronic logging devices on the responsible vessels so as to obtain a licence for fishing for wholehearted vessels. There are also issues relating to the granting of allowances by the ELGA and the extension of the term of office of its President in order to bring it into line with that of the other members of the Governing Council. In particular, Article 14 shall be extended from 31 December and for two more years, until 31/12-2023, the deadline for the preparation, submission and approval of the management plans of the country's grazing land and the possibility to extend this period by Ministerial Decision. In my dentistry, I am going to go further into history. We will, however, remain in agreement that we all agree that we need the grazing plans. Now, how and why did we get to these delays, we'll see you in dentistry. Article 15 has been reintroduced since its expiry and until April 2022 - that is to say, it is a short-term extension - the deadline for granting fishing authorisations for Holothuria spps species under the conditions laid down for the installation of satellite tracking and electronic fishing logbooks, since the cost of the market is high, the subsidies do not flow smoothly, for the installation of the devices. Therefore, the fishermen, without being responsible, have been found not to have been able to comply. Our request has come from all over Greece, from northern Greece, island Greece, from Crete and is a short-term extension to which there will be no more. Also, because it has been heard about quantities, the checks on quantities remain the same and they will be stricter. Now I shall refer to the ELGA. As I said, until 31/12/21, that is to say by the end of December, the possibility for ELGA to grant beneficiaries up to 40% of the estimated compensation which is entitled to losses on agricultural crops from the spring glacier. By 31-1-22, the completion of the declaration of damage to the annual financial compensation for damage caused to agricultural crops by the spring glacier for the correspondents of the ELGA is extended until 31-1-22. These extensions were necessary. Unfortunately, the year had many natural disasters and I would say that at some point human limits were also exceeded. The term of office of the President of the Greek Agricultural Insurance Agency is also extended for one year. More generally, I'm going to answer my dentistry. However, because I consider the attack personally made to the President of ELGA unfair, I would like to say a few words. The term of office of the Chairperson shall not be two years and the Board of Directors shall be harmonised. So there's nothing on camera. It's common sense. Andreas Lykourenzos has done a very good job in ELGA, has housed him. Is there anyone questioning the households of ELGA, an organization which had many problems and which this year was specifically called upon to face floods, ices, fires and operated perfectly and rationalised economically? Andreas Lykourenzos deserves praise and not personal attacks on allegedly photographic devices. My colleague, the State Secretary, George Stylus, will speak about the amendments. More about the objections of counterpopulation, I'll say in my denology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u46	Normally, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Lebanese through WebEx, had to speak now, but there is a technical problem, so until it was solved, we will continue with Mrs Alexopoulou Christina from New Democracy. Here, Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I, too, wish the Minister, Mr Lebanese, very briefly. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food on livestock facilities and units really concerns an extremely serious issue, as livestock production in order to be able to develop will have to overcome nuisances and eliminate bureaucratic obstacles. So what comes to bring the Ministry's today's bill? With the existing institutional framework and in the implementation of Law 4056/2012, the bureaucracy and the strict frameworks of the law which have so far defined the establishment and operation of livestock facilities not only facilitated the entire process, but effectively discouraged young farmers and the active ones from every effort to legalise and modernise their livestock establishments. As is reasonably understandable, a significant part of Greek agriculture, the livestock enterprises have constantly encountered insuperable obstacles, while livestock farming could make a significant contribution to the support of the Greek economy. And one will wonder: But, well, how can the issue of the authorisation of livestock establishments be a problem for Greek livestock farming? To date, livestock establishments account for approximately 50% to 60% of the country's livestock establishments. The speeding up and simplifying of their licensing procedures resulting from the ongoing draft law that we are discussing today will lead to their sustainability and to the improvement of the business environment in this area. Because I come from a rural prefecture, the Achaea Prefecture, and because I hear and appall the key demands of local actors and the concerns of the people of the Achaean land, believe me - and I think this is happening in other rural areas of the country - there is no one involved in Greek agriculture who does not want to modernise and strengthen rural entrepreneurship and development and the Ministry's bill on this very point of view. Will all the problems be solved? Clearly not solved. However, those who try to stand against bills of a developmental value and character, let me say, should also table any realistic counter-proposal they have. Because we are now coming and all this time of the two and a half years of governance to solve problems over the past few years. Now, especially on this bill, let me turn to the issue of agricultural electricity. There are, of course, other problems for farmers in terms of costs, feed. However, the issue of agricultural electricity, I think, is an issue which is inextricably linked to this bill and, of course, relates to a large proportion of livestock and business facilities and to Achaea, a major problem, that of the streaming of livestock units, which I have publicly and repeatedly put in the recent past. And I am making special reference to this issue, as in the capacity of the civil engineer and the daily friction I have all these years, I know firsthand and embracing the agony of farmers and owners of the production units of Achaea and not only in order to settle and legitimise their structures so that they will then be equipped with electricity. These are householders, who have all these years put back - let me have this expression - so that Greek agriculture and animal husbandry can withstand the vibrations caused either by the economic crisis or by the coronary pandemic that has agitated us at many levels all this time. Why should we not forget that the livestock units are also businesses, ladies and gentlemen, and even companies which can make a crucial contribution to the Greek economy. This bill, therefore, by simplifying procedures and addressing the bureaucratic obstacles that have arisen so far, seems to be trying to create the essential conditions for modernising and developing livestock and planting. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of operation and construction in livestock facilities and in general their urban operating arrangements, which relate to over 50% to 60% of production units, is a matter that has been pending for more than a decade, despite all the announcements in the past that there will be legislation on this subject. The current government and the Ministry of Rural Development and Food are coming to give a solution to this stagnation that had come up with a large part of the rural world. In order to achieve this, however, there is a need to reduce bureaucracy and administrative burdens, which, to date, - I repeat - are a brake on the establishment and operation of livestock facilities, especially as regards the rough accommodation of animals. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is nothing but one of the instruments of the reform programme which the current government has committed itself to and is implementing under Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, so that our country can achieve this development leap. Large areas and reforms will give the necessary impetus to the rural economy and the possibility for the primary sector, especially livestock farming, to be a central lever of economic growth and social prosperity. After all, as the Prime Minister has repeatedly pointed out, in this great effort the primary sector of production, can be a huge comparative advantage for our Greece and in this shameless effort, all of us, who support the ambitious plan of the current government, are well aware that the rural world is our greatest ally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u48	We will try to connect through Webex with the Minister of the Lebanese. Can you hear us, Minister? Because the Minister is not listening to us, we will continue with the next speaker, Ms. Xinoyannakopoulou, from SYRIZA. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, workers because of the pandemic crisis and the overall policy of the New Democracy Government have suffered a huge blow. And I will make a special reference to two amendments that we have tabled as a SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance particularly for food and tourism workers, as otherwise our rapporteur, Mrs Tylorid, made a thorough and thorough presentation of our positions, observations and objections to the draft law. However, these two amendments are of particular importance, because I would like here first of all to highlight how many workers - to have a sense of order - work more widely in the food and tourism sector. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about about about five hundred thousand workers and workers, and the two thousand are working seasonally, and we understand that this is particularly important to young people, especially women who are currently particularly affected by unemployment. When Mr Hatzidakis a month ago, after a lot of pressure from both workers and counter-population, brought in an amendment which reduced the required brands to fifty, so that workers in foodism too - tourism - could guarantee a regular unemployment benefit here from this Step we pointed out that there are specific problems, that, although it was a positive regulation, it was absolutely inadequate. First of all, with the clear responsibility of the Government of New Democracy in the ERGAN system so far, the workers' signals in tourism and foodism are not seen in 2020 and 2021. This has a dramatic social impact, because it cannot benefit from the corresponding benefits of EKKA, as the sickness benefit or even mothers can obtain for children at nurseries. At the same time, we know that the food industry in particular, but also tourism, has been hit by three heavy lockdowns. It was, therefore, and is still too difficult for workers in food and tourism to ensure even these reduced feelings in order to guarantee their regular unemployment benefit, as many of them when they came out of the unilateral labour suspension regime were then unable to work, because it is a sector which has a problem, as a whole, companies are not relying on the extent to which they should be. After all, this is something that businessmen themselves, in particular at the focus, have made it and there is also a reduction in jobs, but also a reduction in working hours. We therefore said that solutions need to be found for all of this, and for another very serious issue concerning workers in the sector who, for the first time, would be eligible to receive the regular unemployment benefit. And for them, the government continues not to make a facility especially for this year in order to join the unemployment benefit, but it continues to ask for the increased, compared with the fifty, eighty, seals for the previous two years. For all these reasons, Minister, you are present, although you are not in charge of labour matters, because it is an urgent social problem, because we are going to Christmas at the risk of a humanitarian crisis, and we have thousands of workers and workers who are out of the unemployment benefit, we ask the government to accept the two amendments we are tabling and to take the relevant initiatives. In particular, we propose: First of all, that the marks of the period of unilateral suspension of work be counted in order to guarantee the right to food and tourism workers for their regular unemployment benefit. We think it is fair and it is something that should exceptionally be foreseen for the current year. We also consider it necessary, for this year in particular, to make an exception similar to that of workers and workers who, for the first time, will enter the regular unemployment benefit for them not to need the increased signals of the previous years, but to have a maximum of fifty a year for the previous two years and to have these marks counted for the period of unilateral suspension of employment. Ladies and gentlemen, we consider it to be the least we can do for the workers of a sector that is an employment supply sector, where thousands of our fellow citizens are working and where they are literally facing the range of tolerance and biopoliticism at the moment. That is why we call on the government and make it fully accountable if it does not continue to take initiatives, if, in particular, for the food and tourism sector and as a whole, it continues to implement this anti-government policy, the reduction of wages and the reduction of the purchasing power of workers, with the dramatic consequences that we have been experiencing all this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the feast of St. Catherine is celebrating all the Katerinas. Happy birthday to the Caterinas of the Chamber, but also to my mother who is currently listening to us in Nafpatos. However, allow me two words about today. November 25 is an International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. In fact, the pandemic pointed out in the most tragic way that incarceration and social isolation, as well as dismissal, contributed to increasing incidents of violence and abuse mainly against women. So let us bear in mind our responsibility and let us all act together to eliminate all violence against women. Besides, a woman means life, it means respect, it means love. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now speak on the bill. This draft law deals mainly with the establishment and operation of livestock establishments. Our initial objections, Mr Minister, as Mr Panas, our rapporteur, has said, are: Firstly, with the absence of arrangements for livestock establishments in NATURA areas. Secondly, with the absence of a framework for installations to be moved or relocated for urban reasons, as well as for reasons of compatibility of land use. Thirdly, Minister, the ambiguity with regard to the regularisation of the stacking facilities for occasional livestock, and in particular Article 3, the definition of clipboard accommodation creates problems rather than resolves. I should also like to point out that the rough accommodation is not included in the improvement plans. This, Minister, automatically makes the modernization of the operation impossible. In Article 6, ‘Ministerial theme in land use’, the process of authorisation of the stack installations also concerns existing installations which have not been licensed until now. Therefore, there is an urgent problem in land use. However, general urban plans do not exist for other municipalities. This, Minister, is a major problem, because this creates injustices for farmers depending on the areas that live and experience the problem, so that we have two standards. Moreover, currently stables in areas where the establishment of livestock facilities is not permitted on the basis of land uses cannot be authorised. We have asked for a special arrangement for these exploitable areas. Article 8 does not provide for the existing facilities which have been created since the entry into force of the law, i.e. since 2012. Minister, these are farms that apply and are supported by the OPECEP, which have been integrated into rural development programmes. Our rapporteur, Mr Panas, also stressed this. It is unfair, Minister, to accept the amendment of Article 17a of Law 4056/2012 and to allow these farmers not to obtain permission to keep their livestock or livestock premises. Change the setting to cover these cases. Do not forget the bureaucracy faced by farmers over the years, who have not finally been allowed to obtain legal authorisations. Let me remind Istanbul of the requests for designation, which are stacked at the Amphichia Forestry, for the establishment and operation of modern livestock units, of course because of the subsidization of the service. No effectiveness, we're going with turtle steps yet. One problem I had to put to the SYRIZA - ANEL Government at that time, but no progress and virtually no solution to the problem. As far as grazing management plans are concerned, Article 14 - we have mentioned it - an extension is necessary and I consider it necessary. This, however, is conditional on local livestock organisations participating in the respective committees for grazing plans. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the farmers in our country are faced with great problems which the state has so far not solved. There is bureaucracy, reduced compensation, grazing problems, reduced prices in products. The milk has come to be sold cheaper than water and neither of us sweats our ears. At the same time, the pandemic comes and creates new problems and brings new increases in feed and farmland. It is high time, ladies and gentlemen, that farmers enter a new era and see the state on their side. Their establishments must operate legally and in a modern way, to encourage the creation of livestock parks and new investment. In other words, livestock farming should have our respect and support. Only in this way will we be able to have growth and wealth for the benefit of the citizens. I would remind you that in Greece the primary sector's contribution to our national economy, Minister, is twice as high as Europe's average and we do not support it as we have a duty. In terms of employment, the agricultural sector also accounts for 12% of Greece's labour force, when the figure in Europe does not exceed 4%. The acidification, however, ladies and gentlemen, is that the average agricultural holding in Greece accounts for half of what is in Europe and, of course, despite the serious effort that began in 2010 on the PASOK Government for the Earth Bank. Let me remind you that at that time more than a hundred thousand parcels, millions of acres, classified as school land, were granted to farmers. The aim is to increase the agricultural land, ladies and gentlemen, and employment. This policy, unfortunately, has been interrupted by the adventure of the memorials, and since then it has been left untimely. Thus, for the most important tool of the production process, the state seems to be doing nothing and that is what the citizens are undertaking. The result is the Greek farmer and the Greek farmer having one of the smallest incomes in Europe. The primary sector, however, through the national strategy, through collective actions and the partnership of the scientific community, can of course be an accelerator of development. So let's not miss this opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, the loan is over. Support the primary sector for the production of domestic wealth that will be distributed fairly to citizens and especially to members of the labour force of the primary sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. Mr Lebanese, Minister for Rural Development and Food, through Webex, has the floor. We all wish you a quick recovery. I would simply like to point out to you whether you can talk to us about both the amendments and the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u53	First of all, I thank you very much for your personal wishes and all the good colleagues who have expressed their wishes to both the committees and today in plenary. Unfortunately, I, too - like my wife and our little daughter, Alice, who was inconvenient because she is ten years old - two days before making the third dose that would be much safer care. It's a very difficult enemy, the coroner. I'm experiencing him now and experientially. You will allow me to say that I do not know if we are at the end of the beginning or at the beginning of this pandemic. I know she shows up every 100 years. I know that it has huge losses in human lives and huge economic and social impact. I also know experientially, I said before, that it's a very tough opponent, a very dangerous illness. I know and want to say this on this occasion in Parliament today and through Parliament to the Greek people, that we only have one solution to deal with. The solution is to be vaccinated. Those who have made the two instalments make the third dose quickly, those who have so far not been convinced to run the vaccines and we, above all, the representatives of the Greek people in Parliament, set our goal every day to convince ten, nine and five of our fellow citizens to be vaccinated. That's our only defense, and that's our power so that we can regain normality in our lives, get out of this nightmare. With regard to the important report by my colleague on Gorgopotamos, it is today that we have been celebrating the National Resistance since 1982, precisely to remember the battle of Gorgopotamos. The bridge was a great moment, in fact, for our modern history and is one of the most important acts of resistance to occupied Europe during World War II. It was a historic national success, however, with unsurpassed symbolic significance, because exactly united the resistance forces, together with all, ETUC, ETUC, the ETUC, together with Mars Velouchiotis and Napoleon Zervas, with the help of the British allies, under the direction of the later philhellene, MP, Lord Christopher Woodachus, have achieved a great victory against united Italian fascism and German Nazism. As I said before, we are celebrating this as the day of the National Resistance since 1982. We are doing this just to remind us that the Greeks united have achieved periods of miracles and in this context I think it was right to refer to them. It was a little forgotten to mention the concept of united resistance. With regard to the bill - for which I am not going to say much, because both Simos Kedicoglou and our rapporteur, Mr Antoniadis, have rejoined it in plenary in detail, in detail - let me begin by thanking all those who worked on this bill, Mrs Arabatzi, who, as Secretary of State for Rural Development, had worked long hours to get to the point where we are today, Mrs Anti-Fraud, our advisor, Mr Kotsalos and Mrs Golfinopoulos, the legal advisers who have worked on it, the ministry's servants and, of course, all those farmers, the representatives of bodies who have helped to form together and in their needs. I wanted in this brief speech to say that the aim of this bill is to solve problems and give a reformist breath to Greek livestock farming. In my opinion, it is one of the most important and useful, but also essentially development bills that we have passed in recent years. To say and stand only on this that out of the 100 thousand livestock establishments in our country, up - below, only sixteen thousand are currently registered as legal. In my home country, Ioannina, an area with great tradition and production, we have about ten thousand of these. The rest, although they are everywhere in the Greek countryside, for the Greek state they are invisible. There are, but we just do what we don't see. In other words, we believe that these do not really exist. We are now allowing our farmers to legalise them with this bill. We're practically quitting like a state hiding behind our finger. We are therefore enabling our farmers throughout Greece to step on their feet for the first time, to normally join the production process, to grow, to modernise, to identify their production, after all to advance. This bill, as Mr. Kahrimanis said attributes, is a "revolution", a major step forward for the entire Greek livestock sector. This bill, combined, of course - Mr Kedicoglou said this very quickly - by forming the group to design the national strategy for livestock farming in our Ministry and, at the same time, the sub-group for animal feed, they lay the foundations for strong and sustainable livestock farming, which will also be able to use the CAP funds and will be a key pillar of the development of the primary sector in the years to come. I heard as many of the contributions from colleagues as I could. I understand that many of them are necessarily governed by a opposition attack. I understand why. I also realise that through opposition words there is one acceptance of most of the articles, most of the provisions contained in this bill. I hope that, by the end of the debate, the parties will be persuaded to vote for at least most of the articles in our bill. In any case, however, I would like to say once again that our efforts are specific: to reconcile our policy with the other parties, but above all with the producers themselves. Our work will therefore continue in this direction, the dialogue, which has already begun with the representatives of farmers from all over Greece, will continue with all the organised bodies. There are differences. Crete has its own characteristics. Epirus has its own traits. Mytilini has her own features. We will join these producer groups from all over the country so that we can form together - as, in fact, all colleagues say - a national strategy for our livestock is never yet. So this bill is the precursor of whom they will follow. And since we are discussing today, I would like to say that we record all the thoughts and views of colleagues who are expanding beyond the bill on other issues. I hope that they will gradually be accompanied by concrete proposals which they will be able to submit to the Ministry. In very few days' time, we will also have the first meeting, the first convening of the National Council on Agricultural Policy, which will, of course, also be represented by the other parties and will thus be able to formulate a common strategy that is outside party classifications. I am very optimistic about this, and I hope - I have seen that there are several speakers - that the majority of Parliament should be persuaded at the end of the day to vote for the articles of our bill. With regard to the amendments - some now we are seeing them, because once they have been tabled - we will see them all - and those which Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos and other colleagues have already spoken about - and I will come back to you soon to tell you what we are accepting and which we are not. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Silina Skondra has the floor from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis. Here, Mrs. Skondra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill which solves not all of it, but many of the problems faced by our farmers today. Therefore, I must congratulate the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development for this legislative initiative and also wish our Minister, Mr Lebanese, quickly. I am elected in a highly productive county, the Cardiff Prefecture, which farm farming dominates and is based on the local economy. Through the primary sector there can be growth, economic strengthening, raising living standards and jobs. In the countryside, however, and in rural areas such as Karditsa, which are declining populations, to become attractive, efficient and profitable, the primary sector is dominating and absolutely necessary. Only in this way will the present situation of the older population be reversed. Young people will acquire motivation and reason to stay in their place and progress. Animal husbandry is of great economic importance both for those who are employed and for the national economy. It can produce large amounts of high nutritional value products and ensure satisfactory and stable income to a large number of our fellow citizens. The processing and marketing of meat, milk and other derivatives creates major added values. It is very important that it exploits mountain and disadvantaged areas and gives life to difficult areas that would otherwise be deserted. The livestock sector is in line with the climate and the natural conditions of our country, and we must not forget that, through this sector, important funds from the European Union are being made available to the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the main objectives of this bill are, on the one hand, to simplify the establishment and operation of livestock facilities and, on the other, to improve controls. Obviously the current legislation and improvements solve many, serious and chronic problems, open issues, several of which are acidified. More specifically, the current provisions on clipping animal enclosures and establishments are being amended and supplemented, changes always for the benefit of our farmers, those who, unlike all other professional sectors, do not know what is going to say on Sundays, holidays, Christmas, Easter. Three hundred and sixty - five days a year and under whatever conditions their animals need next to them. For the first time, it is possible to obtain a permit for hand-written livestock facilities which have been built with panels or concrete, but which does not concern the building frame. Of course, warehouses and housing areas for land workers are excluded. Half the required distance of livestock facilities is reduced from places in need of protection, such as streets, lakes and villages. Simplify the procedure for the establishment and operation of livestock capacity facilities until Category B. A certificate of building permit shall not be required, nor shall a specific ecological assessment be required in NATURA areas. Extension is given until the end of 2022 to maintain existing livestock establishments in or near residential areas. They will also be able to amend these authorisations to modernise and improve the hygiene conditions of their livestock. The two months currently in force for the demolition of arbitrary construction are nine. There may also be twelve if a licence to legalise arbitrary structures is presented. It is very important to reduce the fine imposed on the legalisation of arbitrary cases, since 20% is currently in force. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill provides for provisions that make the inspection process more effective and reliable. The competent bodies shall be redefined and inquiry tasks shall be assigned to a specific category of officials of the Ministry of Rural Development. Among other things, the extension of two years of the time-limit for the preparation, submission and approval of the management plans of the country's grazing land. By the end of the year ELGA is allowed to grant beneficiaries up to 40% of the estimated compensation for damages caused to agricultural crops by ‘Spring 2021’. Extension shall also be granted until the end of January 2022 to deal with the damage statements. I would like to raise a problem here, Mr President, which concerns farmers - and not only my own - of the municipality of Plastira Lake, which stems from the problematic demarcation of the Lake Eco-Control Zone. It must be examined and demarcated from the outset in a fair and proper way. It is vital for any activity in our region and, of course, for livestock farming. Ladies and gentlemen, it is easy to understand - especially for those of us who are well aware of the problems of farmers - that this bill exempts from suffering and controversy, relieves and gives substantial solutions to farmers who are active in the well-known, traditional way. It demonstrates our government's political will to facilitate, modernise and reduce production costs of the primary livestock sector. I think that other areas will follow that will contribute to the sustainable development of our livestock farming. I am of the opinion that Greek livestock farming is one of the most neural sectors of production. In a competitive market farmers who are the strongest link in the meat and milk production chain to support and modernise. It should be a central objective to increase livestock domestic production, which is currently having a negative trade balance. To create conditions which, by providing incentives, will change the age composition of farmers in the livestock sector. To protect and maintain indigenous breeds of agricultural animals and to enhance the rearing of all types of animal production by emphasising sheep and goats. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. A central bet should become the creation of large-scale livestock holdings. The cost of production despite the reductions in our Government's VAT, oil return, etc., remains high by making it difficult to maintain and compete with livestock farming. The main aspect, which I believe should be strengthened, is the verticalisation of farms in terms of feed production. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy traditionally supports the agricultural world, be it farmers, farmers or fishermen and beekeepers. Unlike you, SYRIZA gentlemen, who, when you are in power, have tried to eliminate every productive sector and now, as an opposition, you are voting against all kinds of support for all citizens and, of course, for farmers and farmers, even for compensation for natural disasters. Today you have the opportunity to originalise and make yourself useful, that is, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u56	Thank you. The parliamentary spokesman for Mera25, Mr. Claus Gregoriadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we in Meratakis – as we suspect a large part of the Greek people - each time we hear in a bill coming from New Democracy, that is, "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A." the word "simplification" is very worrying, as we understand by writing what is behind the words - Alexis does not hide - that simplification means "shopping" for you. You know the cloak of the so-called simplification of procedures reaches its terrible, lasting instability, in the argument - which we will see next week - of the Minister for Development of Georgia that, in order to know the invaluable beauty of our country, the foreigners will upgrade them by destroying every control mechanism that has so far prevented their destruction, namely the Archaeological Service and the Forest Service. And I must remind you - because I cannot resist the temptation - that there is an unspeakable memory saying by the late Head of the New Democracy and father of today's Prime Minister Konstantinos Mitsotakis that the problem of economy and growth in Greece has two names: it is called Archaeological Service and Forest Service. Mr. Mitsotakis said so, I didn't say so. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] And then why did we introduce them as a nation, as a state, dear colleague? Why did we do these services? Do not have, be uncontrolled, come the other one to bury half of the woods and build his factory. You know the argument that the lifting of the protection of forest land and the lifting of protection of archaeological sites will bring tourists to see the invaluable beauty that we will in the meantime have ceased to protect, is an absurd argument, forgive me very dear fellow Member. A lot has been said. I won't talk about the bill. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Mr. Loyadis said it better than everyone in my humble opinion. I am a parliamentary representative, I remind everyone. I will speak to our amazing Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, who, in this amazing pre-dated debate last Monday, said the unimportant one, everyone knows it, everyone debates it, but I cannot save the temptation, is you know and perverse the perversion of the profession, of the previous profession. He said, therefore, in addressing Mr Tsipras: 'You have put us in the memoranda'. It's multiple amazing outfit. First, let me say that I am surprised to see some reproach. So it was bad for getting us, did Mr. Tsipras put us in? Because we thought for so many years that your Prime Minister was a fiancée of memorials. We thought all these years the naives that Kyriakos Mitsotakis said that without memorials we would fall on the rocks. We thought all these years that the only solution to save the country from "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A." was the memorial. As a reproach you have not heard the outburst, have you put us in the memorial? It sounds like a form to me. And this is where psychiatric issues start, because he obviously got away with it. All those living in this country or presenting Jerusalem know that the memorials were the national destruction of our country and that anything else, the hardest of the rocks on earth would be a softer solution for the Greek people and the survival of our country. So that's the one part that's insignificant. The second part that one begins talking about serious illnesses and mental illnesses is: The previous two memorandums have been deleted by Mr Mitsotakis from his memory? The first memorandum is the Memorandum of George Papandreou. The second memorandum is the Memorandum of Antonis Samaras. These memorials well or badly, our dear colleague charged us with too many billions. Our debt is currently close to 400 billion. You'll soon have all the memorials managed to be half a trillion. And we should really frame it then and say: 'They stayed coordinates in a recipe that made an initial debt of 170 billion to half a trillion for four, five, six governments and fifteen years'! You should frame that and say you insisted on why you're wild heads. It's a good memorial and it's gonna save us! So he said these amazing things, Mr. Mitsotakis. We were all amazed. But before you speak three times, there is the dear Mr Scorchos - who in passing seems like he is not a neo-democrat, he has far more progressive, apologies for expression, pragmatism - and said something that was in no way progressive. Trying to support the incredible argument, the reasoning that there should not be forced vaccination and to Greek policemen, he said he knows there is no scientific research or study that proves that the policemen are transmitting COVID -19. I ask you all: do you know of any scientific study that says that the cultured spectators, the cultivated ones who have a mental reserve and want to be cultivated, the invasive ones, do not transmit the virus or transmit the virus? Why have you banned them from entering the theaters, which close one after the other? Do you have any such research? I have a very interesting survey that I can compare with Mr Scortsu. It's a global investigation. All doctors of the earth and all scientific bodies of the earth agree, the World Health Organisation, the European Health Agency and it is very simple. All vaccinated ones, such as my master who has made two doses and has been anxiously awaiting the third - because I repeat I am fanatical in favour of vaccines as it is the most possible solution in the puzzle of the solution to this problem - all of them, without exception, can transmit the vaccinated ones to a lesser percentage than the unvaccinated ones, but they can transmit. And that is where the absolute irrationality becomes a tragedy, tragic irrationality, considering that we are now counting more than seventeen thousand dead and all the research, all the scientists' studies say that we will have spent twenty thousand before the time runs out. And look, I've told you before that I have the luck of having a father surgeon, a sister psychiatrist and a mother pediatrician. You will tell me: 'Are you so old that they still live and work?' Yes, oh of the miracle the left bear. My father operates three times a week. In fact, in his eighty-seven he operates five people who have been vaccinated himself. Your government doesn't force my father to run a test before he comes in. What does that prove? That you are punishable with doctors and sanitaries of six thousand of these fellow men, whom you have cut the oxygen to live. My father - to any father, to any fellow doctor - who can kill people, even though he is vaccinated, nothing, no tests, no need! We have told you for a long time that the greatest crime - and it is a crime of carelessness, it is not a crime of intent - is the idea that the vaccinated have cleaned up. We have not cleaned up, ladies and gentlemen! We're dangerous. And you reveal you're deeply punishable when you've left doctors and sanitationed to do their job without a rapid test for months! So, following the statements by the top ministers showing government discrimination in professional groups, namely the police, the government now sees it as the right time - what time? - the moment when the pandemic has kneeled hospitals and doctors, the moment that after so many dead and months you have not even hired a single sample for a scientific or glass test tube, if you prefer, to show him to our European partners a doctor permanent in the ESS, so this time you choose instead of health to strengthen the police - with what? - with a market of two hundred and eighty new vehicles. This aid would be reasonable and expected. We are in favour of having a strong police force. However, it comes to supplement previous aid, with the police receiving - listen to it, because it has been interesting - since your administration two thousand and seven hundred new vehicles. I'm sorry, guys, for God's sake, two thousand and a half new vehicles in the middle of a coronary in just two and a half years that you're running and not one, not even a vehicle called a doctor permanent at the ESS? We're going crazy! We're almost there! So, Quiz: What does the New Democracy have in mind with SYRIZA in the examination of the newly created committee - yesterday - on which, of course, the guiding polls and the 'Pestas list' began? A great audience of both parties, these rival parties, these parties that will make the new diplomatism, they have not thought, they consider that there is no need for any parasitic, Mr President, the very small-minded one to come to testify to our committee. Congratulations to the New Democracy too, but more congratulations to SYRIZA, because one would expect the one who the channels are chasing to some extent. I'll say why, although the channels are chasing him, he doesn't do his duty. Look, to be clear to the Greek people: we say something very specific and I said it the other day, I will say it every time I get the opportunity: no socialism, no public media there is no possibility, the interests are such. If I were and had five anonymous companies, a group of companies, Mr President, and I had a channel, I would see that the channel serves my business views. So we've said it, and we've made it clear. Look at what's interesting now: we asked for specific things yesterday in the committee. We said that the dear Mr. Vardinoyannis should come, that the dearest Mr. Kyrikos should come, that the dearest Mr. Alfouzos, the in loveable Mr. Marinakis, should all these gentlemen who have channels, so that we can ask them some specific questions, very specific questions: What did they do in 2015? Because they showed ladies, grandmothers, from Latin America to ATMs in Latin America. I mean, you know when, in June 2015, Mr. Stournaras just made sure that all the rich Greeks made their money out so that there was no liquidity in the banks. So, then, I would ask Mr. Vardinoyannis: "Mr. Vardinoyannis, why did your canal, "MEGA", which I served as a worker in there, show a grandmother from Latin America and had us under a caption that she is in Metropolitan and is trying to make money out of the ATM she doesn't have?" I was gonna ask him, but you didn't let me bring him. And evil is not with you, you employees are, not all, the Prime Minister. The prime minister is doing his job. But you guys, I'm sorry, but you? What is apparent from the fact that you did not even call a parasitic falcon - canalarch? [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] This is very simple and it turns out to be quite simple, Mr President - and I will be immediately finishing with your stance at that time, when you took the power, you went to do five channels and told them 'pay and I give you frequencies'. Who? The ones who were getting grandmas out of Latin America and showing them grandparents Athenians - didn't they? - to these people. Is that what it means? It means that SYRIZA said then in his way "I don't mind if all private television is a ghee-fashioned propaganda in the country, I mind doing it for free". I'm sorry, but what left you are, if you don't mind Goebbels having the information of the Greek people, if you don't mind paying? Because that's what your logic says. It is a good thing, in relation to you who pay them from the "lista Petsa" and 56 million a year, that it is an improvement to say "cash, business half-century, you have eaten the "Panyaya's eyes", and give 150 million!" But the problem of objective information doesn't touch it, it doesn't matter, but life goes on. I will continue - quickly I will finish - there has been a mobilization in culture yesterday and it has been done not by accident, because the theatres have been opened, only with vaccinated ones - you will close them soon as you go - and be careful what the demands are, to understand what our Government has done for all the culture in Greece. Yesterday's requests were made: 'Repair errors which led to the exclusion of colleagues for the special purpose of June and July' - those who have now passed - 'and seasonal allowance, extension of the special purpose compensation for the months of August, September, where our industry had a permanent local lockdown and bans on cultural events, even in areas where there was no outbreak of pandemic, immediate resolution of the issue of registered events'. This is the famous subject, two years we've been looking to find out how many artists in Greece are, I know them one by one by their names, I've told them they're 12 and a half thousand. The government also denies Mrs Mendoni on others. So, 'and fully integrated with full rights in the 2021 support measures, health and safety at the workplace' - what else? - "the consumable Greek technicians who die, when the consumables are born in Greece by Bulgarian and Romanian speakers, filmmakers and clothingists, without a job, only carved to kill them. Mr President - and with this I will almost close - platforms, related rights: You know, compiling is a very important thing for a simple reason, they teach our children, your children, to speak, to learn the Greek language and if they learn it barbarians, they will learn the wrong Greek language. Our compilers and our computers are standing at the level that they need and they properly teach the Greek language to our children at 99%. But - get out of here! - a new reality, a terrible reality, platforms do not grant them related rights - because I am always honest - with the exception of NETFLIX, all the other platforms and the 1993 Act, of course, did not provide that platforms would be born. These people are on abstention - and we are all with them, they must be the whole House with them - and they demand that they get related rights from all platforms. They mustn't break their fight. It is important for them, for our culture and for our children who learn Greek from their mouths. Finally, the 'e-FOD', Mr President, and the 'WOLT' do not yet have heavy and unhealthy ideas. I repeat that I am an actor and I have one of my eighteen, I am fifty-six, I have a life now. I deserve it, because I've worked with a minus forty and plus forty, wearing backwards clothes because rack - so it's called the continuity - it was from summer and I had to be in winter with a summer t-shirt with a minus forty. I'm definitely worth it myself and my branch. However, the distributors who are in the snow, the rain and the heat are out and are mainly raped because the capitalists are pushing them - their bosses - and they fall and beat them - are self-proof that they belong to the "heavy" and unhealthy ones. And finally, a question, I imagine, will bother you, but I cannot avoid it so long as I have been here and keep it, Mr President, with great difficulty: I myself, Mr Varoufakis, have called you an anonymous company for a year now. We call the Prime Minister an 'unnamed company'. We do not call all of you, we know that they are honest and decent many among you and I say it in the name of knowledge. We call, however, the leading team of the New Democracy "official of the great Greek and foreign capital" and all of them - almost all of the Ministerial Council and the Prime Minister - an anonymous company". It is obviously a reproach, and if someone were to give it to me, I would sue, I would ask that the immunity of the Member who said so be lifted, or I would find a way to pursue it legally. It makes us a huge impression how unspeakably you accept it, no one has said, "Oh, Gregoryiadis, you've been telling us anonymous company for so long", "Oh, Bouroufakis, no!" I've been smashing my head all this time, but you know, I found it. Because the anonymous company is immoral, Mr President, more immoral than immoral, but it is legitimate and that is enough. As long as you're typically legal. It seems that behind what we call a "unnamed company" it may also hide a true gang. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, don't even end tomorrow, do we? Something has to be done, we're not done!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u59	Wait a minute. He's the parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u60	It was not about my colleague personally. Everyone's going beyond their time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u61	Listen to me a little: the parliamentary representative, quite rightly, has more time, as the Vice-President has said, so he was within his time and could use him. For all the rest, everyone has the responsibility of his words and anyone can answer. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Our rapporteur was detailed in making specific proposals on the issue of the authorisation of livestock establishments and not only in the light of the interests of the poor farmer. And since all the speakers begin and end up in the famous sustainability of the livestock profession in strengthening the entrepreneurship and competitiveness of their products I cannot comment on it. And I'd straightaway say that you're selling them seaweed for silk ribbons. You're actually digging the pit. You are trying to create new illusions that, in the context of capitalism and the common agricultural policy, they can improve or at least not make their situation worse. The Prime Minister at the Conference on the Common Agricultural Policy organised by the Ministry of Rural Development in the Peloponnese referred to the issue and said that it is wrong to see the Common Agricultural Policy alone as a package of support for farmers' incomes, because we need size of economies of scale so that we can compete with bigger players from abroad and in order to achieve this we need more cooperation between producers. What does that mean? That their little farmer is a pain in the ass. It is a structural problem for the economy, because it is not competitive. So the European Union's objective for which you drink water in its name remains the support of business groups active in the agricultural sector. In order to achieve this, you are selling the fumari to farmers with your declarations of opportunity for the Common Agricultural Policy, for the protection of the environment and cooperative schemes to have - as you say - better prices. Here you are mocking producers and consumers and deciding about them without them at their expense. But the reality is hard, which we deliberately pass. With your policy, you are favouring the few big farmers, the large livestock units, the feed industry and the cartels in milk, while systematically attacking all the governments over time to the farmers at the point that you have depreciated them from income, psychological, family, professional, everything. Prices imposed by commercial industrialists and by the state on animal feed account for almost 70% to 80% of the cost of production. Why? To get the profits of monopolies producing them and moving them. Prices for corn from 10,5 euros the bag was launched at 15 euros in five months, soybeans from 15 euros the bag saranthe went to 19 euros. However, the cost of maintaining a sheep throughout the year is close to EUR 100. So what sustainability are you talking about? With the subsidisation crusts, will the small, bio-patient farmer be sustainable? You tell them that, in order to be sustainable, it should milk three hundred sheep and make the year an average of fifty tons of milk. To do so, however, it means having to maintain twice as many sheep as ovine and caprine animals. And who ensures that the market will absorb it and at a price covering production costs and leaving a minimum income? The free capitalist market? But this is "Your death my life". Today one kilo of milk at producer price is at 95 minutes plus VAT, while at least the producer price should have been at 1.20 euros. How, then, can it be sustainable with these degrading prices and production costs with payments made in line with the requirements of the major traders, with the open prices given by the commercial industrialists, with the unreasonable cost of maritime transport, with the increases in fuel and the high-priced electricity that the farmer has in order to maintain a shed with milk to feed the animals, clean up the fishery with medicines and much more. He wants at least 35% to 40% of his fuel on the day. It wants, that is, without an exaggeration of EUR 15,000 a day. If we put the heavy tax, the insurance contributions to the ELGA to ELGA, the ragged HICP in the homes, the stables, the fields, the warehouses, the wages for breeders, the electronic markings, the vaccines of animals, the statements to the IACC, and the damages from the bad weather and the diseases of animals that are not compensated or covered by them, add the suspension of the forest maps as far as the pastures are concerned, instead of solving problems. So all this together, they fall like a hail. It is incomprehensible to list the small- and medium-sized farmers and the farmers as a whole. So all of them tend to strengthen the large capitalist rural enterprises, focusing on land, production and marketing of agricultural products, and at the same time destroying and declining small and medium-sized farms. Over a hundred thousand small and medium-sized farmers have been destroyed and left over the last decade. So this is your famous development, growth for the few at the expense of the many. And while everything is accurate, the government refuses to take back the joint ministerial decision on pastures that drastically reduce subsidies by allocating penalties to the pastures with heavy consequences, especially to new farmers. The reductions will be much greater in the retrospective implementation of the shameful joint ministerial decision on the distribution of pastures. So you are literally applying the new common agricultural policy, which provides for a cut in aid based on the policy of national convergences to equate it to each Member State - Member State of the European Union and together with the forest maps - the aim is to concentrate land and livestock on a few hands. That is why you strongly refuse to welcome the fair request by farmers that aid be linked to production for farmers and to livestock for farmers. So guilty is the European Union and your policies. The farmers in Crete are rightly mobilized and will either clash and win or bend and lose what is left of them. Only the people can really save the people, and no one can be a self-sacrificing savior, a fight of fairness supported by the JRC and which must continue. Farmers in Crete were on an open line and, in collaboration with the government, played the same game of exodus of farmers' indignation. That's what they've always done. And after they drank the rakis, ate the calicians, played the slidings in the living room of Mr. Kedicoglou's office, ridiculing this honest fight of farmers, eventually like wet cats, and after they did the show with the government, they declared a suspension of the mobilizations. So rebels! So you are all butter in your anti-agricultural policy. You need them. It explains why you forbid me and my presence as a member of the JRC at your office, Minister, because you were ruined by the soup. That is why no one should have confidence in you, nor in some self-sufficient peasants who are trying to usher in their fair struggle, to exploit the pain and distress of farmers. The JRC calls on farmers, bio-family farmers to escalate their struggle with organisation and care for their struggle, with the forms they choose themselves to be exemplary, effective, by losing their sleep, by hitting at the heart of those responsible for the government, the European Union, the common agricultural policy, cartels and trade-industrialists. Withdraw the joint ministerial decision on pastures here and now. Not to lose any small- and medium-sized farmers rights and aid received to date and also the necessary grazing areas, while linking the aid scheme to production and livestock. To take responsibility and cost the entire procedure for forest maps, without any financial burden on the people's layers, and to ensure grassland and grassland aid. The cost of production must also be reduced and duty-free oil must be taxed, a direct reduction in the price of the agricultural stream by 50%, a abolition of VAT on agricultural supplies and on animal feed. It is necessary to grant exceptional financial support to small farmers for feed, to grant subsidies to farmers themselves, and not to shipowners for the cost of transport of their products, to impose minimum guaranteed prices on livestock products that meet production costs, and to ensure survival income for producers and cheap products for people's needs. It is therefore necessary to strengthen this fight and the contributors, instead of playing at the ministerial offices, must be played on the road to the struggle. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u64	I'm sorry, Mr. President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u65	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u66	Because I don't want to hear untrue things, my dear fellow Member, I told you in our telephone communication. I fully ignored your presence on the street. No one told me you were downstairs. None of the farmers who were at the meeting - and were twenty-five people at the meeting - mentioned your name to me. It's against my political morality and my practice, but also my history. You might as well have called me. Did you call me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u67	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u68	That's to restore the truth. He will never dismiss a Member from any meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u69	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I would like to make a clarification about the restoration of the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u71	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u72	So, in the mobilisation of farmers, we considered the JRC to be a JRC and to support the farmers' struggle, as we did! So we asked that the Ministry should be brought in from the security of the Ministry, namely security, so that we could get in. They would contact the Minister's office, so Mr. Kedicoglou's office. So within three minutes the security returns and says to me "We cannot allow you to come in". Solve it, Minister. I told you in the phone communication. What have you been doing so far? Absolutely nothing! So the responsibility lies with the Ministry. It's not mine, it's not the KIC.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u73	I've told you that with regard to security, I put them in place. But you said that I forbade you from entering. That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u74	Good. Mr. Gregoriadis has asked for the floor for half a second for something personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, I was simply informed by a ERT1 journalist because I have the hui to speak, as you will have noticed, very quickly and sometimes to speak to my personal people, because I think that it seems to me that I have said of my father that he is inappropriate. He's an eighty-seven-year-old surgeon and he's also done the third dose of the vaccine. I say it because it sounds public, too, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u76	Good, we get it. Mr. Athanasios Ljutas from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today in plenary we have a draft law which brings the Greek farmer to his core. Today we are talking about the present and future of our farmers, about the sustainability of the entire Greek stockfarming and, by extension, of Greek agriculture, about strengthening entrepreneurship in the primary sector, about supporting Greek livestock farming, which is an important pillar of our country and about supporting all farmers and their families. Greek livestock farming and, in general, our national primary production are broad and critical sectors of our national economy. Their targeted support, in the light of their decisive and sustainable development, is an objective that we have set and implemented as government since the first moment of our election. That's how we started, so we keep going, so we'll keep going. Now that we now go specifically to the contents of the bill, we first see substantial reforms aimed at speeding up and simplifying procedures for the authorisation of livestock establishments. In particular, provision should be made for the first time for the authorisation of hand-to-hand farms containing polyurethane or concrete panels, where this is not relevant to the legal frame of the establishment. We all know very well that the majority of livestock facilities in our country are clipboarded facilities. The possibility of licensing them is a key and crucial step towards the organisation and development of our farmers. In addition, this draft law will allow the reduction of the minimum distance for livestock establishments of up to 50% from sites or activities in need of protection, such as roads, lakes and villages, as long as they are up to 10 km from the border of the mainland. For Category B livestock establishments and for establishments below the limits of Category B, the procedure for establishing and operating them shall be simplified by removing part of the supporting documents for their establishment. In addition, between the other and very important measures introduced by this draft law, the possibility of modifying the residence permit in or near residential areas will also be provided. This amendment will aim at improving existing hygiene conditions, livestock capital or modernising activities. In addition, this provision is also introduced, which will help our farmers very much. In particular, the period of suspension of an arbitrary building of a livestock establishment is extended to nine months, instead of sixty days in force, with the possibility of an extension for another three months instead of thirty days in force. A licence should then be issued for the legalisation of arbitrary structures of the livestock establishment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue by stressing the decisive importance of compensation, both because of the consequences of the pandemic and because of the effects of the climate crisis. Our primary production, in front of the harsh face of the climate crisis, is directly threatened and becomes terribly vulnerable. 'Janus', the hails and the unprecedented glacier last spring caused extensive damage both to national plant and animal capital. The Ministry of Rural Development and Food has been on the side of all affected producers. The aid net was broadly extended to all sectors affected. In particular, and following on from the particularly beneficial damages decided on as a result of spring glacier, the present draft law provides, by extension until 31 December 2021, for ELGA to grant beneficiaries up to 40% of the estimated compensation that they are entitled to. In addition, it shall be extended until 31 January 2022 the time of completion of the declaration of damage to annual financial aid for damage to agricultural crops due to spring ice. At the same time, it should be stressed that the compensation is right and those who have been damaged by pre-anthic crops and who have not been covered by the ELGA. This demonstrates that our agricultural policy, our agricultural care and support are always broad, fair and dynamic. In addition, the provisions of the draft law relating to controls and administrative penalties for infringements of plant protection products are particularly important. Ladies and gentlemen, protection, armouration, support and the development of our national primary production, of Greek stockfarming and of Greek agriculture are objectives of very high and critical importance. They are very important objectives for our national economy and our society. Support and development of the primary sector entails the corresponding support and development of thousands of professions, professionals and workers associated with the agricultural and livestock profession. Farmers and farmers for the New Democracy are always a social and professional group in which we believe too much. The development and prosperity of our producers is the main objective of our government. We have proved this and we have proved it in very critical conditions. We have reduced the tax rates, reduced VAT on feed, planned and granted broad compensation, legislated to refund the excise duty on agricultural oil to farmers and cooperative schemes. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] But this fight doesn't stop here. This struggle is lasting and continues, with a high sense of responsibility towards the people of our primary production, to our farmers and our farmers. Our homeland needs the development of Greek agriculture and livestock farming. To this end, the Ministry, the government, above all the Prime Minister, as well as all of us, come with design, targeting and great faith in the forces of the Greek farmer and the Greek breeder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u78	Thank you too, Mr Liuta, for keeping time. Good evening from me and many years to those who celebrate today. Mr Evangelos Apostolos is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and Mrs. Chapter of New Democracy prepares.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. A lot has been said about the need for support for livestock farming. A lot needs to be done and everything needs to be done. However, in my speech today, I will focus on the most important problem facing the sheep and goat sector, the loss of protection of the feta, the most flagrant agricultural product in our country. I don't expect you to answer me, Minister. It's impossible right now. I would like to inform you, Mr President-in-Office, of the coronary dismissal. We wish him good and rapid recovery, of course, so that all Members will be informed as well. This is the European Union's trade agreement with South Africa, an agreement ratified by the Greek Parliament by means of express and hidden procedures, and not even urgently, on 12-2-2021, with which three geographical indications remain out of protection. But let's see how we got here and what we had to do so we didn't get there. What did we receive as a government? An agreement in principle in October 2014, when Mr Samaras, the former Prime Minister, who provided, on the basis of Protocol 3, for full protection of geographical indications other than - I stress it - three products in Greece, feta, olive oil and retsina. However, we have also received another specific feature, which has to date been the case. In the Council of Agriculture Ministers to discuss support for agricultural products in the European Union and in international markets, while in our country it is the responsibility of other ministries, other specificities. However, the problems created by this agreement in principle are many, more specific to that of Protocol 3, with which the country, South Africa, will use undisturbed names of Greek names of designations of origin and geographical indications and, in particular, of feta on its market, where there have been cheeses that have been on the market since 1975 called "feta" and have actually created the demand for this cheese for all these years. And next, on the basis of the agreed agreement, they will continue to move into the biennial any white cow-milk cheese called 'feta'. The situation will get even worse for feta, when the new businesses that will be interested in making such a product in the future will be able to call it "South African feta" if it comes from sheep's milk or feta, feta-style, feta-type, if it comes from any other milk, mainly from cows' milk. The abuse of the term "feta" will therefore be consolidated by all companies operating in the two contracting countries. What did we do? At the first Council of Agriculture Ministers in March 2015, I referred to the two agreements that will give us a big problem and that is SADC with South Africa and CETA with Canada, stressing, among other things, that they cannot be accepted by both Greek society and the Greek Parliament. There have been parallel meetings with the Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr Hogan, both at the Agriculture Councils and at the private meetings to which we clearly stated that the results of these agreements are extremely unfavourable for our country. Perseverance and determination in the negotiations brought us fruits in a toy where we are handlessly lost. We accepted the provisional initiation of the Agreement with South Africa in October 2016 on a condition that the European Commission expressly takes into account Greece's concerns about geographical indications and undertakes to achieve the best possible level of protection in the Union's registered geographical indications in the current or future trade negotiations within five years of the entry into force of the Interim Agreement between the European Union and South Africa, that is to say, until October 2021, to have started the review with a view to not using the term ‘feta’ to any product in South Africa. I am tabling the European Commission communication on the Agreement with South Africa, which incorporates a Commission statement on the review for five years, as well as a statement by Greece on the subject, with reference to the European Commission statement. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above communication, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also make a copy of the European Union and Greece declaration agreement. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned copy, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What then, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, then the Commission spokesman and Commissioner today, Mr Margaritis Schinnas, said. It described the agreement as an unprecedented success, since, with the declaration by the European Commission and Greece, which were incorporated, the European Commission commits to launch a process of reviewing the geographical indications of Protocol 3 in order to achieve the same level of protection for all geographical indications included in the Protocol, including feta. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a commitment in our hands - part of the agreement that gave us the right not to proceed with ratification if the parameters of the agreement had not been completed. Unfortunately, the Government, even though it was informed at the relevant meeting of the Committee on Production and Trade on the importance of this commitment by the European Union, did nothing to implement. On the contrary, not only did the ratification dismiss our right resulting from the agreement, but it also delivers the feta to its fascists. Already France and Denmark - you know, ladies and gentlemen - are raising a question of the review of feta. And you know what their target is? To fill the European market and, of course, our country with white feta cheese from cow's milk. These two countries are the largest producer countries in cow's milk in Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u80	Slowly finish, Mr. Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u81	I shall conclude, Mr President. How do we react, even at the last hour? Are we going to ask for a review of Protocol 3 on the full protection of feta? Will we at least do it with CETA for Canada, for which there is a similar statement? Ladies and gentlemen, I am following this issue and at regular intervals I have expressed my anxiety. I would like to make two speeches, one in the Committee on Production and Trade and another in the media, where I have referred to and referred to the efforts we are making. I'm closing up with a question. I think the Minister is watching us right now. And if he doesn't watch us, can he answer me if he knew, yes or no, this whole process, this whole course? Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u82	Be well, Mr. Apostleu. Thank you very much. Mrs Maria - Alexandra Head of New Democracy has the floor and Mr Stamenitis is prepared from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative framework currently in force in the field of livestock farming has led to malfunctions and practical problems. The obstacles to the authorisation of livestock establishments were an inhibiting factor in the development of Greek livestock farming. The bureaucracy and strict frameworks of the law have not only made the whole process difficult, but have discouraged business farmers from all efforts to legitimise and modernise their facilities. Today, the present draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food comes to give solutions to these important problems of the country's primary sector. We are dealing with the chronic issues of livestock production and the modern challenges presented by this area. We are creating a clear, simpler and adapted to the real needs of a legislative framework, a legislative framework which now creates a stable reference point for the establishment and operation of livestock establishments by simplifying and speeding up procedures. We motivate and facilitate business farmers. We actively support mountainousness, but also the people who live and work in the remote parts of our country. Greece, with its quantitative and qualitative flora, has the potential to take the lead in the livestock sector. We want to create healthy businesses and encourage entrepreneurship in this area to increase the competitiveness of Greek production for the benefit of rural economy and overall growth. Ladies and gentlemen, the stable facilities, i.e. the clipboard accommodation of animals, constitute a large majority of livestock facilities and, on the one hand, a vast majority of them, we are able, for the first time, to grant a large number of unjustified supporting documents. By speeding up and simplifying these procedures we make it possible to make them viable. For the first time, we accelerate the operation of facilities for the processing and processing of similar animal products and by-products within the same livestock establishment or a neighbouring property. We thus give incentives to create so-called vertically integrated units, such as milk, meat and eggs processing plants. These are actually the ones that bring the required added value to the agri-food sector. In addition, we make it possible to use the by-products of these installations for the use of biogas produced. After all, biogas is used by plants to reduce production costs and has an environmental mark. We modernise livestock facilities, providing the possibility of building a building within them. We thus improve the hygiene conditions for livestock and the conditions under which our producers work on the night. At the same time, we are going on improving controls and sanctions procedures. We extend the scope of controls to other categories, such as meat and all products with a protected designation of origin. Our aim is to ensure that products are manufactured in accordance with the rules of law, but also that those rules are respected by everyone. We are therefore protecting Greek products and rewarding honest and labour producers, against those who exploit the gaps in the system, against those who benefit from subsidies and foreign money. We set out the time-limit for the Forestry concerned to respond to the respondent for intervention on grassland and rocky areas in areas with dominated forest maps within two months. We put an end to any flaws or misery of the administration. We're trying to streamline administrative procedures. The administration must serve the citizen and entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law seeks to ensure an effective and flexible framework with a view to the sustainability, strengthening and modernisation of livestock facilities. We relieve this dynamic industry of outdated practices and contradictions. We focus on the small farmer, the production and processing of his products. We are motivating him to expand his activities. We are trying to implement what has not happened in previous years. We want to establish a new culture, more friendly to the rural business. We aspire to make the lives of Greek farmers easier and we prove that we have political will but also technical knowledge to do so. These arrangements may concern farmers in particular, but they have a direct impact on society and the economy as a whole, as they strengthen entrepreneurship and competitiveness. It is a success of the Ministry, which has been working on this bill for a long time and the current and previous leadership, but it is mainly a success of the country. This is because they are changes aimed at all its producers and farmers and strengthen the primary sector. We respect the people of labor, we respect the Greek farmer, the Greek businessman and the Greek consumer, and we invest in livestock and the primary sector as a force for the growth of the Greek economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Head. You always say it in five minutes. Mr. Dionysios Stamenitis from New Democracy is invited to Stepma. To prepare Mrs Malama from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before my position on the draft law we are discussing today, I would like to comment on what happened in Pella yesterday and I think other prefectures in the country. What happened? Producers, farmers have received findings of compensation for their crop losses since the glaciers in March 2021, which will be paid on 3 December, while a second payment is expected on 23 December again, for what findings will come in the coming weeks to 90% of the losses. I would remind you that producers for the first time after 2003 have received an advance payment in early August. Write a little bit and count, ladies and gentlemen: damage manifestation March 2021, an advance without final findings, August 2021, after five months. Clear damage, 100% pay with findings after eight months. How did that happen? I will tell you, however, after reminding Members of Parliament what has happened in SYRIZA. It's worth it. For SYRIZA, therefore, the first payment of ELGA compensation was for 70% of the amount of the finding and 12 to 14 months were paid after the damage. In other words, if it were a government of SYRIZA today, the damage in March 2021 would be paid after March 2022 and, in fact, 70%. The second payment concerned 20% of the amount and was paid about 16 months after the damage, i.e. October 2022 and the liquidation, the remaining 10%, eighteen months ago. In short, the completion of the payment of losses to farmers was eighteen months after the damage, and today we managed to complete it within the same year, in nine months and all together, not partially. Is there more proof than that of who's on the farmers side? All this is because Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself immediately after the damages and extreme weather events occurred, has ordered emergency funding from ELGA with more than 200 million euros. The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Spelion Lebanon, and the administration of ELGA with President Andreas Lykourenzos, designed, organized and implemented this unprecedented record-time work. That's why farmers trust the New Democracy. Today, with our amendment, this cycle of compensation is being completed, as it enables businesses, cooperatives, cooperatives, producer groups, to be compensated if they have been affected by frost. So what we promised in June - MPs, Prime Minister, political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development - comes true in record time. That is why they know who farmers and farmers are seeing. And the partners and producer groups saw it with the return of oil. Ladies and gentlemen, now to come to the bill we are discussing today, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Rural Development also proves in practice in this bill once again that the first objective of the New Democracy Government for the primary sector and its development is to overcome obstacles and distortions. That is what this legislative initiative we have to vote on today in plenary. It is a bill that simplifies the framework and gives solutions to many problems, which have been lagging behind for years and have been about the establishment, operation and modernisation of livestock facilities. At the same time, it aims to improve controls and sanctions procedures and to resolve urgent issues. At the same time, by means of its provisions, which avoid complexity, care is also taken to protect the environment. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing another initiative by the Ministry, which is facing distortions and chronic diseases in the livestock sector, and really, it is ambitious to give impetus to the sector. As the Minister of the Interior at the committee meeting pointed out, this draft law outweighs the weaknesses of a system which, for years, has not allowed legality or the departure from the front. Ladies and gentlemen, in nine articles it is condensed, we would say, our vision of livestock farming in our country. Traditional livestock grows and is linked to entrepreneurship and mobilizes the Greek livestock farmer to enrich and expand its activities, while boosting and boosting the livestock production and processing of its products. The draft law is based on and developed in the changes it brings to five main priorities. First axle: It harmonizes the legal framework with the existing conditions, while at the same time ensuring the welfare of animals. It achieves this by correcting failures of previous legislation and by providing for the possibility of modifying existing facilities, within or near residential areas, with the sole aim of improving existing animal health conditions or modernising activities. The second axis on which the bill is moving is the simplification of the procedure and the management of bureaucracy at its core. How does he manage this? By removing any administrative impediment or legal interpretation, with the provision of an explicit sixty-day period for the establishment of the Forestry and finally by abolishing the requirement to submit a specific ecological assessment for small-scale livestock establishments when located in or to be established in NATURA areas. Third axle: Costs for farmers are minimised. We have a reduction in the maintenance fine, a replacement of the architectural designs of clipboard accommodation with simple scaffolding. Fourth axis: Entrepreneurship is strengthened. Farmers are given the opportunity to vertically vertical their business, as they will be able to process both animal products and by-products, either in the food establishment or in a neighbouring property. Finally, the fifth axis: strengthening the remote areas. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed provisions themselves show that the aim of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is to modernise the livestock sector as a whole and thus to increase its participation in the reconstruction of our country's primary sector. Before I finish my position, I would like to say a few words about the Ministry's amendment extending up to 30-12-2021 the deadline for requesting the withdrawal of seasonal land workers of thirty to ninety days. It is an intervention that really serves the need of our producers for their workers' hands. And I would like to say here, Minister, that our experience has shown us that this arrangement of the Ministry which gave a solution to the relocation of workers during the period of COVID - 19 and 2020 and 2021, when there were movement restrictions, works and works well. It is specific to the framework and it works in the interests of the producers. That is why I propose, in cooperation with the Ministry of Immigration, that the possibilities be extended so that this framework for which the amendment is extended can be made a permanent mechanism. Knowing what time the producers can call workers from third countries and not having delay and time pressure phenomena, because we know very well that when the harvest period arrives, the time is very specific and the need for workers' hands must be immediately covered. I close and I would like to invite you all to vote in favour of this bill. After all, we also saw it in the committee at the hearing of the bodies that a large majority of the bodies were in favour of this bill and congratulated the Minister of Lebanese, but also Mrs Arabatzis, who worked on the bill, but also the two Undersecretaries who will implement it. It turns out in this sitting that the bill is a good piece of legislation which we all have to vote on together to finally help livestock farmers get ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Stamenitis. You invite Mrs. Sunday Malama from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and then I will give the floor to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Villardos. Here, Mrs Malama, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating comes at a grim time for livestock farming in our country. It would be no exaggeration to say that today livestock farming in Greece is in danger of becoming a sector for extinction. Unlike other countries of the European Union, our country has literally and dangerously backed its own country over the last two years in connection with the support of our livestock sector, and this government has fully depreciated all efforts made in recent years to improve the structural problems of Greek livestock. You've tried to split the stockfarmers in every way. You have been abandoning them fully for two years, leaving them to fight with the rally of feedingstuffs and farm supplies. Now you wish them "good courage" instead of supporting them in the huge real problem of the cost of energy that is plagued by livestock production. Every time your answer is the same: it is the international markets that are to blame. You told us it was China's fault. We are told that Russia is to blame because of the rise in gas prices. And the question is one: If all this is so and nothing can be done to improve the situation, then why do you govern? In the summer we had many tours and we met all the operators of Halkidiki's stockfarmers. Their problems are too much. The inability to put up stack facilities and the absence of grazing plans are the major structural problems of livestock farming in the county. What have you been doing for two and a half years for these problems? Nothing. One of them throws the ball at each other. The farmers of Halkidiki are asking for a placement. Where is the procedure at this time? Zero. Static facilities of twenty and thirty years old are in the air for that reason. You fly the ball to the municipalities of Halkidiki who have no updates or general town plans. This is not the way to go about animal husbandry or livestock processing. Has the municipalities been given any help to draw up them? Oh, no. You're just leaving the farmers in their luck. And second problem: pasture. Nothing has yet been done to draw up management plans for grazing from the Region of Central Macedonia. Halkidiki does not have demarcated pastures, as a result of losing subsidies, increasing production costs and losing the connection between livestock and local biodiversity. The Region of Central Macedonia is indifferent, and the Ministry is indifferent. So a dead end to the farmer. The Municipality of Sithonia, for example, has submitted a study on the use of its pastures since September. Why hasn't it yet been approved? Where's he stalling? Submission of services? In the absence of political will? We're also tabling you with the study and we're asking you to speed up the process, please. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Cyrus Malama, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned USB, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] Sithonia has traditional extensive livestock farming, has indigenous breeds of cattle. I repeat that you need to see the study and speed up the process. Will you really let this whole thing get lost in the red tape? The farmers, the municipality, all ask for this process to be accelerated. We have never seen stockfarming in our country has never been found in this state of institutional indifference. You understand it as a problem and not as a lever for the development of livestock farming. We say that we must immediately launch a brave programme to strengthen livestock production. It takes financial tools and resources to enable farmers to reduce their production costs, to renew their production equipment and, above all, to identify their production. We have heard you triumph about increasing the price of the milk market from industries to farmers. But that's half the truth. Apart from the fact that any increase in supplies and energy prices has been depleted by the rally of supplies and energy, you tell us nothing about increasing cases of fraud in feta from large businesses. Do you know what a blow this is for the farmer? Do you know what an illusion means in milk? How much do they cost us Greeks? Have you ever thought about it? Do you know how much money the small farmer loses from this uncontrolled situation? So we invite you again instead of advertising as an incision to study the problems of Greek stockfarming better and to come honestly to resolve them. Otherwise, the end of your administration will have come the end of livestock farming in our country. It is not only enough to say how qualitative Greek products are and to photograph ourselves in front of the reports. We must also support them in practice, and above all we must work in the light of the needs of the farmer and not for the great interests in the area that really seek to degrade the Greek quality livestock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mrs Malama, and respect for the time. The Parliamentary Representative from the Greek Solution, Mr Vassiliardos, is called upon to step up, and I would ask the parliamentarians who are listening to us from the offices slowly - slowly to take a decision because we have been very close to parliamentarians. Let us not all fall together so that Members can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is true that the feta is absolutely right. It's been going on for a long time. There is nothing, there are no controls and we are constantly exposing ourselves abroad. It's a shame. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary, the government is launching another fragmentary bill with minor amendments to the already existing framework for the operation of livestock units. These are important measures, as has been seen in general, for our primary sector in the pandemic period, where from EUR 43.3 billion allocated to support our economy, from 2020 to 2022, unfortunately, all with loan, according to the budget, was just EUR 183 million for our primary sector. In addition, EUR 19 million was allocated, indirectly, to support feed, in line with the preliminary draft budget, by reducing the VAT rate for feed intended for animal production from 13% to 6%, costing EUR 2021 million and EUR 15 million for 2022. These amounts are obviously a drop in the ocean, since the cost has been greatly increased, as in relation to energy. So there is a need for greater reductions, especially as regards VAT, supplies and oil for producers. If nothing else, it is unfair for the State to collect increased VAT and excise duties on fuel due to rising prices, which is not only for producers, but also for consumers. For example, when the price of a product is EUR 10 with VAT at 24%, the public receives EUR 2,40, while when it is EUR 15 the price - that is, it has increased - the public receives EUR 3,60, so more, which is certainly unfair and must be stopped immediately. The most problematic thing is, of course, that the government does not have a comprehensive plan for the primary sector or of course for the Greek economy in general, only by applying the green packages imposed on it by the European Union so that it can borrow and waste the loans literally asymmetrically. Is the Minister true about the illusion that if he votes for a law establishing livestock units, will their establishment follow? If it were to happen, if it were so easy, then it would be enough to launch a bill prohibiting the closure of such units, as we have seen in recent years and will, unfortunately, continue in the future. Unfortunately, primary production is facing major problems, so there is a great need to support it and not just drawings on paper, such as laws, especially in today's pandemic with the issues that have appeared in the food chain, as well as the appreciation of basic foods. For example, vegetable fats have increased by 400% since last year, cereals between 50% and 60%, packaging materials very significantly, sugar around 18% and cocoa 15%, and sooner or later the government will have to increase wages and pensions - rightly, of course - to balance inflation somewhat. However, the wage-price spiral, which characterises strong inflationist trends, will be put into effect. In other words, at the beginning, workers will be paid higher wages, they will be asked and paid higher wages, the employers will pay them, and then they will pay the price to the cost of their products, and workers will again ask for wage increases, and that will continue for a very long time. Especially as far as food is concerned, even the European Union has recently set up a special mechanism for food adequacy, the European Food Safety Settlement and Management Mechanism or ‘EFSCM’, as we will later all be tabling in the Minutes. We should not start analogously, how much more so when the most important sector of our economy, unfortunately, tourism, is making our commercial deficit in food, as clearly demonstrated in 2020, the only surplus year after many years due to the collapse of tourist arrivals. Is it not known that up to 80% of tourism supplies come from imports? Is it not obvious that food shortages, as well as appreciations, will have a secondary impact on other sectors of our economy if appropriate measures are not taken in a timely manner? Furthermore, our agricultural production in general decreased to 10.9 billion in 2018 from 12 billion in 2005, as we will testify in the Minutes, while many regions are threatened with abandonment and desertification. Of course, among other things, because funding to the agricultural sector was limited to just 1.2 billion or to 1% of the total of 3.9 billion in 2009, as well as to testify in the Minutes, while the specialised rural Bank was divided into good and bad, with systemic banks closing down many of their stores in the province, making it difficult for farmers and strengthening local economies. Especially with regard to the big increase in feed, for which we have tabled several months ago a timely question, it is crucial for the survival of our livestock units, while it is not solved by the slight reduction in VAT. Let us not forget that feed represents 67% of the cost of production in livestock, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, while, unfortunately, it is largely imported, noting that our trade deficit in feed is estimated at EUR 230 million, mainly because of soybean, whose price has doubled over last year, and also because of the corn we will be tabling in the Minutes. How long will producers and consumers really last? However, we have already asked these questions at the Ministry since February with realistic proposals for support for our farmers at pre-markets, and we have received honestly silly answers that we do not even want to repeat. We only remind you again that the European Union, especially because of the pandemic, allowed up to EUR 125 000 per farm, asking the Minister if he did anything when we informed him. Did you really do anything about this? It's very serious. Especially with regard to the bill now, we would say that it is making some cowardly facilities, but it is not the part that our livestock and generally our primary production needs to be covered in order to cover the major gaps that exist, how much more so, when it is affected by many aspects today, by the energy lot, by the rise in feed and fertiliser prices, by inflation, which does not seem to be transient as we have said, etc. We must take account of the proposals from our programme, such as incentives for production and living in border regions and islands, with VAT at 7%, a constant VAT rate of less than 10% for agricultural supplies, machinery and fertilisers, a reduction in the price of agricultural streams, a serious tax refund on agricultural oil, which has unfortunately been charged with a green end by Mr Hatzidakis' destructive amendment, etc. Continuing in relation to the group farming, which concerns the pastures and the NATURA areas, we have said the following. The nomadic animal husbandry relates to the units mainly of ovine and caprine animals in our country, which move between different grazing areas in the summer and winter, forming part of our cultural tradition, which has been entered in the National Index of Intangible Cultural Heritage. As mentioned, the practice of movement lies at the heart of the cultural and social formation of mountainous fodder communities, while it has largely contributed to the development of the landscape of the areas historically developed. Movable livestock farmers are operators of knowledge and practices that relate to the best use of available natural resources - such as grasslands or water sources - and climate data and the production of quality agricultural products. We always insist on the word 'quality'. As far as NATURA 2000 areas are concerned, they are extensive in our country, since they are estimated to cover 27.2% of the land area and 6.1% of our territorial waters. These are therefore vast areas, within which traditional pastures exist, so their exclusion actually strangles economic communities and our own country. The NATURA 2000 areas of course comprise important flora and fauna, while they have always been a living ecosystem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] They must therefore be protected, but not from our shepherds, especially from wind generators which, among other things, have catastrophic effects on birds, where there is already a very significant reduction in them. In the light of the above, those articles of the draft law which affect the authorisation and operation of mixed livestock units must be improved so that, on the one hand, they can be accessed to the pastures in NATURA and, on the other hand, the establishment of the facilities required to reduce bureaucracy. I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President. For example, with regard to the first, Article 4 prohibits the establishment of livestock units in the forest areas of the poor and protected areas designated as 'NATURA', although there is of course some flexibility. However, especially as regards small units and nomadic livestock, we do not consider them to be a threat. It is not a threat, since this is how ecosystems have been preserved for too many centuries. For example, with regard to the second, bureaucracy, Article 5 retains a large number of supporting documents which, on the one hand, bear practical and psychological burdens on producers, on the other hand constitutes a cost to them, since they must be prepared by engineers, accountants, lawyers and other, of course, costs. In relation to Article 8 it is now extended until 31/12-2022 the deadline for lodging a request for livestock units in or near residential areas wishing to continue their operation. Our question here is why does the continuing operation of livestock facilities have to be declared, so why should authorisations not apply until the cessation of operation if there is any nuisance? Is the service concerned facilitated by this, the Directorate for Agriculture and Veterinary Affairs in this regard, in terms of transferring the data from one file system to a new monitoring platform? Can we not automatically inform producers about the facility? It is not the only case that this practice is presented specifically in relation to the status of L.4442/2016 on disclosure. Paragraph 9 does not allow for the possibility of modifying the authorisation for the maintenance of a livestock establishment, within or near a residential area, for reasons relating to the improvement of hygiene conditions, livestock or the modernisation of establishments. We believe, however, that an increase in farmed animals or a change in the composition of livestock is thus prohibited. However, for small changes at least it is an annoying and rather absurd bureaucratic provision. For example, if one has ten goats, twelve sheep and two cows, then turning them into fifteen sheep, five goats and four cows, will he have to submit a request again? I close with Article 14 on the pasture management plans which should have been drawn up, and another extension is given until 31/12-2023. This is a really major issue, a suspensive to production. All these extensions, if any after the elections, do they serve the objective of keeping the electoral base hostage? Apart from the matter of forest maps, there is also the question of RES, where, for example, in Kosani, they are occupied with PV projects in green projects due to liberation. If that's possible! As we will testify in the Minutes, up to five thousand acres are bound, with the result that the pastures are fragmented, since it is not possible to coexist with animals and photovoltaics, and there is a similar intervention from the Chamber of Geotechnicals in Central Macedonia. In conclusion, many improvements are needed in the bill, without that being the right direction, because we always want to be objective, which we hope the Minister will launch for the good of both our livestock and our country, Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u92	Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for a minute. You're Vice President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have asked for the floor by continuing what has been said in our protology, that is to say when we are developing our positions on the bill. We asked the Minister, at any rate, whether he would withdraw paragraph (b) of Amendment No 1141. We want an answer to that and we ask - and I have therefore asked for the floor - because, if it does not withdraw it, which the Minister must tell us immediately, we intend to table a request for a roll-call vote on this amendment. The second is whether we have a picture, whether the Minister can now tell us at least on this matter, whether or not he is going to table the Ministry or other ministerial amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u94	The permanent problem with the amendments. Mr Kedicoglou, State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. The amendments will be developed by my colleague Mr Stylos. Soon he'll be in the Chamber and give you an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u96	Mr Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we wish the Minister, Mr Lebanese. We all have to be careful until this pandemic test ends. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first, but I hope it is the last legislative initiative we are discussing to simplify procedures for the authorisation of livestock establishments and to extend the suspension of the demolition of arbitrary structures. Such initiatives with similar titles, whether in the form of a bill or in the form of a joint ministerial decision, have been several years. I remember during my term of office in the Ministry of Rural Development that we proceeded with the final settlement of arbitrary stable facilities without any fine, only with a paradox of 300 euros. In addition, we simplified the procedures for the establishment of new livestock units and no more environmental studies were required for most livestock units. It was only enough to make them subject to the standard environmental commitments. The previous government has worked out improvements and today this legislative initiative is moving in the same direction. However, the successive extensions to the maintenance of arbitrary statistical facilities on the boundaries of settlements also confirm the pathogens of the primary sector. They have been welcomed in the years of the economic crisis, they are also welcome today in the middle of a pandemic. However, I believe, Mr Secretary-General, that a serious state should organise with incentives to relocate it, giving strong moleculosis to plans to improve farming facilities. As we speak of livestock farming, I must point out that production costs have risen sharply. Of course, in sheep and goats we have better prices in milk. However, prices in feed and energy have been evacuated. There is certainly a positive reduction in VAT on animal feed. I believe, however, that every possibility of supporting farmers should be exhausted. I would also like from this step of the House to take the alarm bell for feta to another dimension than that of the former Minister of State, Mr Apostolos. Mr. Undersecretary, the multiple cases of "monkey" fetas of Greek origin on European shelves must be alarmed. A tough battle has been fought in order for the feta to be registered as a product of designation of origin in the European Union. Is it possible for Greek dairy industries, Greek cheesemakers for reasons of unfair speculation to step in and reopen the feta envelope at European level? It is essential that these phenomena be immediately struck and that we do not reread for fraudulent fetishes and indeed that it has been detected by foreign audit authorities. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, so far the interprofessional feta, where great expectations had been put forward to help deal with the phenomena of illusion and deception of the consumer who operates at the expense of the producer, has not yet found its pace. Ladies and gentlemen, since I referred to the cost of production, in particular the energy that has become tough for farmers, I would like to welcome as a first step the return of agricultural oil to young farmers and cooperatives. I hope that this first step will be extended the next period by the enlargement of the beneficiaries. But to speak Civic Opposition is going a lot. Farmers do not forget that the SYRIZA - ANEL government was the one that abolished agricultural oil. Minister, I also welcome the amendment to the land workers - we have a real problem in the province - and the extension of the possibility of an agricultural profession. By mistake, I imagine there are omissions. Graduates, for example, of the Department of Animal Production Science of the University of Thessaly have not been included. I hope this will be corrected. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law also extends the term of office of the President of the ELGA. Allow me, on this occasion, to acknowledge the important work done by the ELGA. I had pointed out my reservations when the debate on private participation in the area of agricultural insurance opened. I have said that some who seek profit are difficult to compete with benefits from a non-profit public body which is even subsidised by the State for its operating expenses. Today I think the whole debate has proved to be fascinated, as has the heavy complaints of the Officerate on allegedly privatization of the ELGA. This does not mean that the ELGA does not need modernisation. On the contrary, with extreme weather phenomena becoming more and more frequent, it becomes necessary to change the organisation's regulations to compensate for damages that are currently not compensated. As we speak of livestock farming, farmers are the poor relatives of ELGA. Their contributions annually are multiples of the compensation they receive, not because they have no harm but because they are not covered by the Agency's rules. It is therefore an overtime hour to debate a change in the regulation. When I was at the Ministry of Rural Development, I had asked the agency's administration for a proportionate study on the inclusion of additional insurance risks. I left the government, elections followed, and the new government froze the issue. Shortly before the elections, the current Civic Opposition, then government, announced that it had carried out a proportionate study to change the regulation. However, as it has been shown, this was not a proportionate study which would calculate the premiums by integrating new insurance risks, but a simple viability study based on the actual losses that the agency already compensates. Mr President, it is a pity to lose another four years with debates on the revision of the ELGA Rules of Procedure and one throwing the ball of responsibilities to the other. Let's talk the language of the truth. In order to incorporate new insurance risks, in order to compensate for damages that are not compensated today, a proportionate study is needed to show how much insurance premiums should be adjusted. This year we had all the wounds of Pharaoh, "January", "Medea", multiple ices, floods, hails, heats, damages could not be compensated if the state contribution provided by the law to the ELGA budget was not retroactively granted. Next year, what will we do if - the unborn - we have corresponding disasters in the primary sector? Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for truths and national understanding, because extreme weather phenomena are stubborn and do not make a choice for governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr Harakopoulos. Mrs Anna Mani - Papaderiou from New Democracy is called in Step. I shall then give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin. I inform you that two speakers will speak among the parliamentary representatives. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of today, on the global day of the elimination of violence against women, I would also like to address all women who are subject to any form of violence to send the message that they must break the silence, come out and find the courage to denounce their victims. I also wholeheartedly wish to wish the Minister of State, Mr Lebanese, a quick recovery. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for the New Democracy Government the support of the country's primary sector, the main pillar of the national economy, has always been an unnegotiable priority. The government has shown that it is standing next to our farmers, our farmers, the fishermen, that it is disgusting about their difficulties and their problems and in the context of their budgetary practicability. Tax reductions and social security contributions, exemption from the trade charge for farmers under the normal scheme, reduced VAT at 6% rate for animal feed, non-implementary ENVA, aid to farmers affected by the coronary virus, but also the most recent measures for the energy crisis, such as the refund of the excise duty on oil, which SYRIZA had abolished, are all measures which constitute a broad protection net which the Government has methodically put forward to support the rural world. This effort to strengthen the primary sector continues today with an important draft law for the livestock world. A piece of legislation aimed at creating a clear, flexible and modern legislative framework for the procedure for the establishment and operation of livestock establishments. It is a bill that gives solutions to the problems and bureaucratic strangles that the farmers were facing until now during the authorisation procedure of their facilities and which constituted a brake on the development of Greek livestock farming. The most important regulation which may be introduced is the one that gives the possibility of legalising rough animal enclosures, of course always under conditions. If you think that these rough accommodations represent about 60% of our total livestock establishments, you can see the importance of this regulation for our farmers, especially for our small farmers and how much it helps them with their difficult and demanding work. At the same time, the draft law simplifys and accelerates the procedures for the establishment and operation of livestock establishments in category B and below that limits and therefore reduces the cost of production by introducing a new philosophy which is more friendly to the rural business. And, of course, I could not go into the amendment that tackles the particular issue of the revocation of land workers in the rural world. In particular, I am referring to the extension of the deadline for the transfer of land workers until 31 December 2021, a regulation that was dealt with very positively in the previous period. Minister, I come from Pieria, an extremely rural area. That is why I would like to raise an important issue, which is why the consequences of which are already being addressed and will be even more busy in the future for the rural world and for Pierre and for all of Greece. I am thinking of the climate crisis and its consequences for agricultural production, which has two fundamental dimensions. The first is water shortage, the difficulty of meeting irrigation needs, and the second is the increasing damage as a result of extreme weather phenomena. Minister, with great satisfaction I have followed the presentation of the integrated programme "Water 2.0" of the largest investment programme of irrigation projects in the last fifty years, an excellent initiative by the Government of New Democracy, which I hope will be extended to all of Greece and, of course, to my place of Pieria, where the needs for irrigation are particularly great for the agricultural quality products in the region. For example, I will refer to the gold of the spring land, the kiwidium, a leading Greek agricultural product, one of the most dynamic exporting products in our country that constantly conquers new markets abroad. It has fled Europe's borders and now conquered Asia's markets. It is expected this year that it will be declared second on a global scale. 95% of kiwi is exported by bringing considerable revenue to Greece and the majority of this production comes from Pieria, as local producers have the best know-how, cultivating it for tens of years. So we must at all costs stimulate and support our exports by a strategic plan and, of course, the ray, the top export product. Subsequently, the second dimension of the climate crisis is the damage to crops from extreme weather. The government and the Prime Minister themselves have raised the issue of the climate crisis at the top of their agenda, and indeed the Prime Minister himself is taking initiatives to address the effects of the climate crisis, which are evident in crops too. For example, in Pieria, recent heavy rainfall, hails, temperature increase have affected basic agricultural products in the region, such as grapes, kiwi, cherries, tobacco and fruit and vegetables. And it is undeniable that an enormous effort is being made by ELGA in the midst of unprecedented situations, to stand next to the affected farmer with housekeeping and rationalisation. I personally say that the administration of ELGA was present in the affected regions of Pierre. In fact, we all know that the government strengthened the ELGA with many millions of euros. It is clear, however, that we must unite forces to have a holistic crop protection programme from the effects of the climate crisis, which are constantly growing. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise once again that support for the primary sector is not just important for the development of the national economy. It is the only way to strengthen the Greek region which is a national objective for the government. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis will continue to be daily at the side of the producers, the guards of the countryside and the Greek region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Papadimitriou. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, is invited to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Let me let you know that I'll get my dentistry. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate cannot in any way confine itself to the contents of the bill alone. Because the House cannot remain voiceless when every day we have hundreds of them, when the country's epidemiological picture is at the worst possible point, when the public health system is not just reaching its limits, but has long gone beyond its limits. The government is trying to convince us that the picture of daily losses is the new normality for which only the invaders are responsible and for which it has no responsibility, because it has done everything very well so far. With this perspective, however, the government is essentially limiting itself to the role of an observer. The measures taken are very late, and it is now clear that they do not. What is this reality, however, that the government does or pretends does not want to see? Five hundred dead in a week, increased imports, over six hundred pierced. Climate of fear, uncertainty and division of Greek society. A health system which has suspended the treatment of other diseases and health problems, with delays of regular surgery that endanger the health of citizens. Only the active list of “KT” surgery is a little less than ten thousand patients. I say this again, a little less than ten thousand patients who expect to operate in only one hospital at the 'CAT'. Same image in hospitals in Crete, same picture in too many hospitals. Unfortunately, the need to strengthen hospitals is not seen through documentary evidence or by the appointments or lists I referred to before, but by technocratic ministers who decide that they do not need to, because this will create a luxurious public health system. And so the measures to tackle a pandemic now cease to be the subject of the scientific community. They become a special field of state ministers with a view to everything, which represents epidemiologists, resulting in extreme contradictions with the measures in place. But badly lies, both to plan and to impose measures, and to convince the citizens of the need for vaccination, must have credibility and the government, unfortunately, has lost it long ago. At the moment in order to tackle the pandemic effectively, in order to stop human lives being lost - unfortunately for all of us it is expected that every day we will listen to the disappearance of seventy, eighty, ninety and a hundred fellow people - measures will have to be decided on the basis of the protection of public health and not on the basis of the protection of the government's political interest or possibly a short election horizon and planning. That explains her contradictions. That explains the blurred message it sends, both the government and the Prime Minister themselves. That explains her steam. So it explains that elsewhere he closes his eye, elsewhere he closes his ears. He prefers the country to pay the cost of human life rather than to pay the political cost itself soon. But now is the time for all of us, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, the deterioration of the scientists must stop the malignancy and the government's ministers must stop pretending to be every little bit of infectious, not a cross-party agreement - I stress: no agreement - but accepting cross-party measures and supporting the measures proposed by scientists and not the reverse course that now leads to the results that we all see every day, because the government seems to be not enough. And it is not enough because, apart from the first months of 2020, it has failed again and again in the management of the pandemic, it has then set it up and at the end lost control. This is what the citizens see and they are obviously appraising and are not convinced. Ladies and gentlemen, the primary sector of our country is a sector with great prospects and genuinely great potential for creation, but also for the multiplication of national income. Along with tourism they make up the country's really heavy industry. It should therefore not be the direct government response to the issues and the negative circumstances that emerge suddenly and create a disturbance to farmers, but also to farmers, causing emotions and helplessness, but often abandonment. Unfortunately, the negative circumstances that this sector has experienced over the last two years - and the previous ones, but especially in the last two years - are not very few. What have farmers seen two and a half years from the government's side at the level of political management? Probability, fragmentation, often inertia. In short, governmental absence and uncertainty, due to the lack of a comprehensive plan. But farmers and farmers are not second-class professionals. All the Members present are elected to province prefectures, and I am sure that every day they come into contact with farmers and farmers and share their problems and concerns with them. It is the farmers who keep the countryside alive. They are those whom we collectively rely on in order to have food security and adequacy for our country, especially in the light of the pandemic. It is, however, the pandemic that has been arousing us for almost two years, which has shown the government's shortcomings in the primary sector, since it has been treated from the outset as unaffected. Can anyone answer us responsibly how the successive leaderships of the Ministry of Rural Development have been responded to all this time towards producers, a period characterised by great difficulties in collecting, placing agricultural and livestock products on the market, which have been characterised by extreme rises in energy, but also a drop in demand due to closed or partially closed focus and economy, when other branches have rightly taken the lion's share to survive? What was the treatment of the primary sector? I would remind you that last year, in December 2020, the government came to bring an amendment because it found it after eight months that we call it in this Chamber that 80% of farmers and farmers owe tax and the banks with the result that compensation was paid due to COVID to be seized. Then the officials of the Ministry of Rural Development discovered that farmers and farmers are in a very difficult situation, so they also had to obtain suspensions of credit, tax and insurance obligations! We are talking about a period of great difficulties, a period during which we have seen little progress being made by the government towards strengthening the real liquidity of the small and medium-sized producer, in addition to some compensation actually granted, but which has been delayed and in many cases, such as the Elijah Law, Minister, we are still waiting for the matter to be resolved with the fast potato due to bureaucratic blockades. And because “the gar comes only” we have seen in recent years and the extremely damaging environmental crises, resulting from climate change, “Januan”, “Medea”, out of season droughts, ices, hails, wind turbulences, extreme weather phenomena that affect our country in a tragic sequence, not allowing producers to literally lift their heads. In this context, we have repeatedly called for all tons of the use of ELGA as the main policy tool, its reinforcement with staff, so that it can cope quickly with the damage records, but also with compensation, the brave support of the ELGA from the state budget, which has become absolutely necessary, as we have seen from the glaciers that have hit the whole territory. The government came and brought the amendment to the advance, but the problems remain, the costs and the damage are too great. We have also proposed a direct change in the insurance regulation to include endemic crises because they are not extreme cases, they are truly endemic crises caused by the climate crisis. We have asked the state to assume its responsibilities in relation to the cost of insurance for the ELGA, which clearly cannot be carried out entirely by farmers and farmers, but to ensure that funds are redirected from the new common agricultural policy to that end. What, then, did the government - and I would mention a few cases - do you think about the agricultural current and the retrospective increase in its price from late summer, a factor that extremistly raises the cost of agricultural production, as well as the accounts of irrigation agencies, in one year even prolonged drought? Did we have any progress in relation to the price of oil that this year moves over 1,5 euros? Has the government made the planning of a regulation that will implement a reduced excise duty on agricultural oil or a refund of taxes beyond young farmers and those belonging to cooperative schemes for which it will apply from 2022 onwards? What about the rest of the producers? Will they be left to the mercy of God because they are not young or because they are not involved in collaborative arrangements? Can they survive? Should they not feel state support? So here's Rhodes! We urge you to adopt the amendment we have tabled today as a Change Movement to establish a Agricultural Energy Card and financial compensation due to increased electricity costs. But what about fertilisers, which, in the context of the general appreciations, have reached more than double what last year will there be a central intervention? To increase the animal feed price, which is close to 80%, you have reduced VAT. Is that enough? Does the farmers inform you that this measure is enough? Or in this case will the government incubator be the same, namely, 'there is no money, we cannot drive the country to fiscal derailment', which means little to all producers, to all farmers and farmers who are likely to hear us at this time that 'the saver is being saved'? But in relation to the other procedures - mainly administrative or control procedures - which do not require funds, such as the management plans for pastures, the Greek milk and amnocorporations, do you have to show us concrete work and measurable results or simply announcements and intentions that we will 'we will fight them, correct them, resolve them'? I am now going to another issue that concerns the rural world, and it is about the National Strategic Plan for the period 2023-2027 that our country will present for the new Common Agricultural Policy. On the basis of what I have heard in a recent consultation in Patras and the Minister - to which I wish wholeheartedly and quickly to return to us - I hope that the exception of industrial tomato, oranges, citrus fruits, grapes and other products from the associated aids will not apply, because they are products of central importance for the agricultural production of many regions, such as Elias and other regions, and Argolida, and I hope you will seriously deny me that this will apply from 2023 and then tell me whether the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development is thinking about it or whether it will adopt the proposal of the private consultancy firm that is proposing this. Nor can I mention the deafening absence of any government planning, beyond announcements and promises, for the plan for integrated production reconstruction of Elijah, a major agricultural prefecture, which took note of the second biggest disaster after Evia in last August's fires, with more than 50% of the municipal compartments of Ancient Olympia having been destroyed, with major disasters in the agricultural economy, estimated to lead to a loss of production of at least 30% for oil, which is the only source of income for many, and of course with farmers having serious shortages in feed - despite the initial moving wave of donations, the problem remains the same in other firefighting areas - but also in stall installations which have not been able to declare them, to settle them, so as to be excluded from compensation procedures. Why, then, all these producers, farmers and farmers are often treated as invisible by Mr Mitsotakis' government? Or was the government's effort for productive reconstruction exhausted in the expensive oil from the archaeological site of Ancient Olympia? I think that concrete answers need to be given because the inhabitants of fire-fighting areas, particularly farmers and farmers, are struggling and waiting for specific commitments and answers. The bill is in the right direction, but it is weak, as is repeated. The House has again dealt with similar issues, which demonstrates the incomplete preparation of all previous relevant laws, since there is a constant need for additional arrangements, complementary to existing legislation. And of course, perhaps his arrangements could be the subject of the Ministry's circulars instead of another law being passed in the context of a specific legislative inflation that conceals the patient, I would say, the will for a substantial reformist effort in this neuro-algal sector for the country and the economy. Of course, as our rapporteur has said, many of the provisions are positive, but they do not go beyond the backbone of the expectations of an entire sector, of the primary sector, and I think that at the moment the needs of both farmers and farmers in relation to their genuine government support for them to stay in their area, to be able to lead to cooperative schemes and to be really the basis for the productive reconstruction that the country needs in this very critical period should be placed on another basis and another dimension, unfortunately lacking in today's bill. I hope and hope that soon the government launches an open dialogue in this direction, because I think we all agree that the primary sector is the basis, the future must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Katrin. Mr Anastassios (Tsos) Eleksakis, Member of the New Democracy, is called to Stepma and to prepare Mr Kollias, also Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the current government remains faithful to its election commitments and is carefully bent on the primary sector. In this draft law, substantial solutions are given to chronic problems of the agri-food world as a clear, simplified and adapted legislative framework for the establishment and proper functioning of livestock establishments. Progressive and corrective changes are being made by combining traditional livestock farming with entrepreneurship, providing support to the Greek livestock farmer and providing incentives for verticalisation and expansion of his activities. The strict frameworks and Memorandum Engagements of Law 4056/2012 created until beforehand obstacles to the authorisation of livestock establishments, deterring both young farmers and the active ones from any attempt to legalise them. Under this legislative initiative, these obstacles are removed by facilitating their modernisation and encouraging entrepreneurship in the livestock sector, while reducing the time needed to complete the relevant procedures, which will now be carried out under the targeted supervision of the State. The intended arrangements shall include the clipboard accommodation for which their viability is ensured. In particular, it shall be specified which structures constitute a livestock establishment, a clipboard animal enclosure and an intensive livestock plant. The competent authorisation authority of the regional unit shall be designated within the limits of which the livestock unit is established, specifying at the same time which areas they may operate and at which distance from residential areas, rivers, lakes, national and provincial networks and many others. For the first time, it is possible to authorise a series of hand-wrapped premises containing panels, polyurethane or concrete in their construction, since they do not constitute the building frame of the plant. It is also possible to amend the authorisation to maintain a livestock establishment in or near residential areas with a view to improving existing animal health conditions or modernising activities, thereby ensuring an extension until the end of December 2022, so that the livestock farmers concerned may request the maintenance of the livestock facilities in or near residential areas, and that the period of suspension of the demolition of arbitrary livestock construction is extended to nine months instead of sixty days to date, with an extension of three more months instead of thirty days, to which they should be authorised to provide a licence for the legalisation of ferry structures of the livestock establishment. Minister, these corrective amendments are particularly satisfying to the Jewish farmers who, last year, have been faced with the malfunctions of the existing legislative framework regarding the authorisation of their existing stalimatic facilities within forest areas. As I pointed out, by submitting a written question to your predecessor, a significant number of farmers in the Evros Regional Unit failed to complete the procedures required for the issue of the authorisation of their existing livestock unit within the intended time horizon, with unpleasant consequences for them, since they could not make their products available, nor the raw material for PDO products, but also be included in the investment programmes of the Rural Development Programme. Undersecretary, agriculture, fisheries and livestock are the main sources of income in the extreme Evros. In the area of Evros and Thrace we have many distinct livestock facilities, which are a model of expansion and a vertically integrated enterprise throughout Greece. An example of the top is the well-known dairy industry "EVROFARMA" based in Dumotich, which processes 6% of Greek milk production, while its stacked facilities of Greek-Israel standard are located in the village Media of the Prefecture of Evros. Here's a characteristic event of instinctive self-protection. EVROFARMA was forced to carry its facilities from the border line of Evros to the last border of the two prefectures of Evros and Rhodope, in order to remove it from the danger, from the outbreaks of contamination from neighbouring Turkey over time. As I have shown, Mr President, over time, the most effective scientific emblem for the zoonoses imported from the East would be the innovative decision of the Greek State by establishing a veterinary school in northern Evros, with possible funding from the European Union, as investigated by our MEPs at our request. Education and training in the field of scientists and fighters will be the catalyst for animal diseases both in our country and in Europe, bearing in mind that the entrance gate is the Evros catchment area and above all the threat arises when flooding phenomena occur. As the conference organized by the EMCDDA along with the Agricultural University showed and the zoonoses come from the blood-eater insects that the overcrowding of these is more than ten times greater when we have the flooding phenomena that I have before. In combination, of course, the veterinary school, being established and lucky, with the full activation of the centre of exotic diseases which, unfortunately, remains decommissioned and inactive in the area of New Orestiad, as established by a joint programme, the well-known INTERREG. The conclusion of the Intergroup Committee on Development in Thrace clearly provides that in support of livestock farming it is necessary to cooperate among the livestock marketing companies with collective livestock farmers, the conversion of conventional producers to organic farms, as well as the granting of low-priced loans and other measures related to the prioritisation of funding from the rural development programme at national and European level. I would like to point out that our country is agri-foodstuffs, but it is a deficit, Mr Secretary, and it makes large milk imports, as domestic production covers about 40% of our needs. We could double our domestic production and get to 80% and beyond if we found in every region of the country - we have thirteen regions - a campus with a cooperative mark, as the EVROFARMA group did in Evros. The current government takes innovative action, setting up definitive ponds in the primary sector, actively supports the competitiveness of Greek agricultural production for the benefit of the rural economy and the development of the country, strengthening small and medium-sized farmers, as well as those employed in the rural economy, especially those who have a vision. For this reason, I am voting in favour of the relevant law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u104	Thank you too, Mr Prussakis. Constantine Collias from New Democracy, Corinthus and stressed today. Good courage. Also, to prepare Mr. Andrianos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion and voting represents an important initiative by the Government and the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, a piece of legislation that achieves a clear, simpler and flexible legislative framework for the process of establishing and operating livestock facilities, placing a brake on the maze of bureaucracy. At the same time, it makes corrective amendments to Law 4056/2012, effectively resolving the chronic problems encountered during the authorisation procedure of livestock establishments. Let us now look at the main pillars of the bill. First of all, with the proposed regulations of the bill, the fine for maintaining arbitrary buildings is significantly reduced from 20% to 5%. Insert for the first time the definition of the clipboard accommodation. The rough accommodation in Corinthia, ladies and gentlemen, is more than 50% of all livestock facilities. These accommodations are allowed to be licensed without henceforth providing for the obligation to certify exemption from building permits. Issues relating to distances of livestock establishments are resolved, incentives are provided to the farmer for verticalation and extension of their activities. For the first time, the possibility of modifying existing livestock establishments in or near residential areas is allowed. The sole purpose is to improve existing animal health conditions and modernise activities. Let us talk, ladies and gentlemen, about the extra benefits. I should like to point out, for example, the express deadline for the present sixty days for the introduction of the Forestry Office in the case of livestock establishments on grassland or rocky areas and, of course, if there are valid forestry maps. This is a particularly important regulation which puts the brake on the huge delays that existed until now. Furthermore, as I said before, the bill favours the verticalisation of our livestock business. They will now be able to process both animal products and their by-products either within their livestock establishment or in a neighbouring property, which was not allowed until a precedent. It is also planned to extend the time period of suspension of arbitrary construction of a livestock establishment to nine months instead of sixty days in force until now, with an additional three months option. And here, ladies and gentlemen, the measures now being taken to support Greek livestock farming. The fact is that during the crises that we are going through and on the forefront of the pandemic, the Ministry has stood at the first moment on the side of our farmers. And in response to the number of misguided claims made by the Anti-Population, exceptional aid amounting to EUR 30 million was granted to ovine and caprine animals, EUR 600 000 to milk producers, EUR 15.5 million to pig farmers via OPECE, EUR 3.2 million is expected to be received by black pig producers and EUR 3 million to support farmers of indigenous breeds, plus advances of almost EUR 40 million. That is to say, for our support for our farmers, 92.309.590 euros have been allocated to date. Furthermore, according to communications from the co-legislative ministries, the excise duty on diesel of a total cost of EUR 50 million, used by two hundred thousand young farmers and members of cooperative schemes will be repaid in 2022. With regard to the reduction of production costs, it is possible for professional farmers to maintain photovoltaic power stations covering part of the energy they need, namely, for their own own production of 25%, and, as a matter of priority, to sell 70% of the electricity available to them on the interconnected network. It is also important to stress that this reduction in production costs for our farmers is even the recent reduction in VAT on animal feed from 13% to 6%. Finally, I should like to mention the increase in the price of sheep and goat milk, which is certainly a breath for the Greek farmer, who has been faced with various bad circumstances. Of course, this positive development has made a significant contribution to the control mechanisms in order to combat the scourge of illegal Greek milk and meat and to stop the deception of consumers by the frustration of feta. Furthermore, on the occasion of the renewal of the term of office of the exceptional President of ELGA, Andreas Lykourentzou, I would like to congratulate the important work he has done, supporting directly and substantially the producers in the damage they have suffered following this year's extreme weather. Personal thanks, in fact, I should like to address as a Corinthian MEP to the President of the ELGA, who has repeatedly visited Corinthia, by carrying out successive on-site self-confidence and by ensuring that timely and fair compensation is paid. The first results we have received deserve and satisfy us perfectly. Nor could we overlook the initiative of the Minister and the President of ELGA, for the first time after 11 years, to activate the provision of Article 7 of Law 3877/2010, which provides for the annual grant from the Ministry's regular budget to cover 20% of the operational costs of ELGA. And this was not only in 2021, but also in previous years. Ladies and gentlemen, the primary sector in Greece is the backbone of the national economy and we know that very well. The New Democracy as a party recognises the leading role of farmers and farmers in the course of the economy and is subject to their problems and needs, today bringing a progressive bill, with a clear positive sign and with the aim of strengthening the Greek farmer and the Greek breeder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, too. We're not leaving the area in the Peloponnese, we're staying, we're going down to Argolida. We will remain in the New Democracy as well and Mr Andrianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. First I should like to begin by wishing the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Lebanese, and, of course, a quick recovery to all our fellow citizens. So the bill we are debating today, ladies and gentlemen, gives essential, fair and effective solutions to the serious and persistent problems facing primary production, particularly the livestock sector. And here I would like to highlight the positive, significant contribution made by the Minister, the State Secretarys, the officials and, of course, by the former State Secretary, Mr Fotinis Arabajis. Support for the rural world is, moreover, a proven priority for the New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. I would remind you, among other things, of the reduction in VAT on animal feed from 13% to 6%, of direct actions to address the consequences of the pandemic with the exceptional aid of EUR 30 million to sheep and goat farmers and of EUR 15.5 million to pig farmers, as well as the repayable advances, amounting to EUR 40 million. I would also remind you of a correct step taken, firstly, to reduce the excise duty on oil and it involves about two hundred thousand producers, who are, of course, members of cooperative schemes, a measure which costs around EUR 50 million. I also recall the measures taken on milk prices, where from EUR 0,75 has reached up to EUR 1,30 today in many cases and also the coordinated efforts at the European level of the Ministry for Feed Subsidy. The government is, therefore, aware of livestock production and, more generally, of primary production as a vital sector which makes a significant contribution to our country's overall development effort. Besides, livestock products and the products of primary production are characterised by high quality and nutritional value, and at every opportunity they conquer domestic and international markets by gaining consumer preference and trust. We must be very careful here and be vigilant about the protection of products such as feta, because the latest events, in other words, we must see Greek companies distort the production of feta, are truly disappointing, and that is why we must be very tough and the control mechanisms must be very strict in controls. So this faith in the potential of our primary sector will also be reflected in the results of the new national livestock strategy, which aims to support the Greek farmers, encourage innovation and new investments, produce added value, verticalisation and certification, extroversion and openness to new markets. In this direction of confidence in the Greek farmer and the will to effectively resolve the persistent problems he has to face, the bill under discussion is also moving. With his predictions he has solved the problem of unnecessary bureaucracy, high costs and uncertainty resulting from the current regulations on rough animal enclosures, which concern the majority of domestic production, with some estimates raising the percentage by up to 80%. We heard from the Minister's mouth that out of the 100 thousand livestock facilities only the sixteen thousand are legalized. Therefore, this draft law simplifys and accelerates the procedure for the licensing and control of installations, rationalises the forecasts for minimum distances. The aim is for the farmer to be freed from bureaucratic obligations, commitments and costs, which do not allow him to focus on his productive work but also to be able to safely plan his action in an environment of certainty of the law. I would also like to refer separately to the extension of the current President of ELGA Andreas Lykourenzou - other colleagues have said so - who has personally been next to the producer by taking care of his timely and effective support. It is enough to recall the visits to Argolida, where it was found with the people of ELGA immediately in the field, in order to establish the damage suffered by producers since the beginning of March and to run the compensation procedures immediately. So for the first time the wounded were able to get the 40% advance in a short time, which is an important breath in today's treaty. Of course, we need to see in these circumstances the revision of the ELGA regulation, because climate change has created new data. We need to see the premiums, of course. That is to say, they pay premium regions, but when it comes to recovering from the damages, other regions are missing. We may see, in other words, the premiums at regional level depending on the crops and the weather, of course, there are. In the context of this demonstrated interest of the Government in the agricultural sector, I believe that within the budgetary margin the appropriate measures should be taken to support the Greek farmer, who today has to deal with significant increases in the prices of pesticides, fertilisers, equipment and electricity. The cost is now known and the government is doing everything it can to support the cost of electricity from and increased by external factors. It is high at the moment, and especially when we know that the farmer uses facilities, drillings with a great horsepower, a great depth of pumping, he also uses two moves often to reach the water in his field or even in winter he uses the drilling for anti-glacier protection or using the windmills for ice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u108	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u109	So we need to exhaust what room there is to support them, because indeed agricultural current is an important factor in increasing production costs and it is unbearable for farmers. I am sure the government will use every margin and it is already doing so on a number of levels. Of course, there is one point, Minister, to which I wish to refer. It is also the one attached to oranges. It has also been mentioned by other colleagues. It is about Argolida and other prefectures, Laconia, Elia. It therefore allows producers to direct oranges B' and C' sorting towards juicemaking, a basic production and export activity, with a large number of jobs and a significant economic activity. We must see, in other words, because we have been informed, we have heard, we have read that the proposal made by a committee does not include trees. We must pay attention to this part and I think that you are the person you are listening to and you will listen positively to the problem that arises, if the associated one is now abolished, in the middle of COVID. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of opening up the platform by the end of the year, on 31 December, to invite land workers to work for up to six months. It is an issue that I, too, have raised with the relevant ministers, and it is very good that the co-presidents, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and the Ministry of Migration and Asylum, have cooperated effectively on this crucial issue, because in Argolida, for example, oranges, mandarins and olives are in danger of staying in trees, because there are no necessary land workers. It is a positive bill, and that is why I am voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Adriane. And from the oranges, we should go to the grapes and not just to the Cavaliers. We're up in my territorial waters! Get Mr. Capatos ready. Mr. Happily Lazarides from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what is progress? Progress is to improve and upgrade the terms and conditions so that each and every of our fellow citizens can improve the terms of their professional and personal living. It is progress that we promise to do a post-election thing in the run-up to the elections. Progress is to adapt and shield our policies in order to be able to meet today's needs, but much more to tomorrow's challenges. It is just a step forward that we can give solutions. This horizontal characterisation I could add to all the draft laws brought by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis for a vote in the House and, of course, the draft law on the stable installations confirms this to the full. Why? Because, first of all, the Government's interest and the priority of its policy in the primary sector in all its views is confirmed in this respect. Because this draft law gives solutions to chronic problems of livestock farmers, namely, the establishment, modernisation and operation of livestock establishments, with a view to simplifying existing procedures. Because it changes the productive model through the linking of traditional livestock to entrepreneurship and stimulates the Greek farmer to vertical and expand his activities. How? In a simple and straightforward way, as our rapporteur, Mr Antoniadis, has explained in an excellent way. By reducing the minimum distance of livestock establishments up to 50% from settlements, villages, railway lines, giving an extension for existing establishments to submit a request for continued operation at the DMOs until 31/12-2022, as well as the possibility of modifying the authorisations for the maintenance of establishments. By simplifying the procedure for the establishment and operation of livestock establishments in category B and below, by extending the period of suspension of arbitrary set-up to nine months, with the possibility of extending an additional three-month extension, with the reduction to 5% of the fine of building for those carrying out the legalisation of arbitrary livestock structures. But progress, ladies and gentlemen, for us it is another thing. It is to contribute actively to the formulation of better terms and conditions for each candidate project through the submission of concrete and effective proposals, proposals that will help Elena from New Karvalis, Savvas from the Almonds Kavalas, as well as the producers of the whole country. As I have said above, the government has practically demonstrated its interest in the demands of the rural world and has responded to the difficulties it faces. It has made significant moves towards the financial relief of farmers, such as the recent reduction in feed VAT from 13% to 6%. It has arranged for the reimbursement of the excise duty on oil in 2022 to young farmers and producers participating in the contractual agriculture programme and collaborative schemes. I would like to make a few points here, Mr Minister, and I very much ask you to look at them. The refund of excise duty, as formulated, concerns a few people and does not solve the problem to the extent necessary. Perhaps, indeed, it is even more complicated as the smuggling effects that had led years ago to the abolition of agricultural oil may come back. The situation requires, first of all, institutional intervention and then a lot of controls. I therefore propose, Minister, that we deal with the problem - which we will find before us - of returning to the IACC declarations. In this way, the oil consumption amounts corresponding to each producer can be easily calculated per crop and per producer. The manufacturer with the IACC declaration will be able to address the service and buy his oil. In this way, control becomes horizontal, consumption is controlled, and most importantly, the planned funds will be given to those who actually consume them. Also, an additional proposal - and here, in my view, attention should be paid - is not to exclude farmers who keep books of revenue - from costs and are not members of a cooperative. These are the main professional farmers of special status. It is unfair, in fact, that it is not their sole responsibility. And I say this, Minister, because there are areas where the cooperative has gone for liquidation or has been closed down. So the main professiond farmers have no place to address and become non-beneficiaries with this measure. I conclude with a proposal on the taxation of farmers, since our government is thinking about changes. I therefore propose that the tax from 22% today on incomes from EUR 10,001 to EUR 20,000 - and it concerns most farmers - should be reduced to 13%. At the same time, this taxation should be significantly reduced for farmers who have chosen cooperative schemes, but also for young farmers, then, of course, by the end of the five-year period, as they have until then paid less tax. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that both with this draft law and with the proposals that have been heard today in this Chamber, one thing is proving to be a great deal. That the Government of New Democracy methodically and with a programme is working intensively in order to transform the primary sector into one of the main pillars of the country's development. Obviously and I am voting in favour of the draft law and, of course, congratulate the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food on their excellent work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr Lazarides. Congratulations and respect for the time. You put a tonsil, put Terzanidis from Kavala's beehouse. The Kefalonite MP Mr Panagis Capatos from New Democracy is called in Stepma. I shall then give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - the Progressive Alliance, Mr Constantine Barkas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food we are discussing today bears a special feature, a feature which we systematically meet in the parliamentary debate and which, as a majority, we have agreed to shield. These are corrective interventions in legislative frameworks that are vague and difficult to understand and, finally, in their implementation. One such case comes to heal this draft law. The problems encountered during the implementation of Law 4056/2012, as well as the absence of a single implementing framework, were an explosive combination at the core of Greek livestock farming, which we are currently correcting. Both by facilitating and modernising the procedure for the establishment and operation of livestock establishments and the provisions on controls and sanctions, uncertainties of institutional and substantive nature which the previous legislative framework had made postures have been resolved. In more detail, this draft law provides for a series of interventions which are worth mentioning. Articles 3 to 9 are updated to include the concept of definitions relating to clipboard animal enclosures and the functionality of livestock establishments. Subsequently, the minimum distance for livestock establishments of up to 50% may be reduced from areas or activities in need of protection. Finally, the possibility of amending the permit to keep livestock in or near residential areas to improve existing animal health conditions or to modernise the activities shall be granted. Articles 10 and 11 extend the period of suspension of demolition, arbitrary construction, livestock establishment to nine months instead of sixty days currently in force. At the same time, the imposed fine to build up the autopsy and conservation report is significantly reduced to 5% of the current 20%. Article 12 redefined the competent bodies to recommend the imposition of administrative penalties for infringements of plant protection products, residues and the rational use of pesticides. Finally, the 13th article of the bill confers tasks and powers of an investigation officer on a specific category of officials of the Ministry of Economic Control and Cooperation, as well as increased powers in the context of an ETS, in order to make the performance of their duties more effective and more reliable. In my own reading, there are clear three key directions that the bill includes and it is useful to mention. The first concerns what we have noted from the outset: ensuring an effective, safe, flexible and modern framework for livestock facilities. Reducing bureaucracy and administrative burdens in the process of establishing and operating livestock facilities. Finally, the resolution of issues arising from the application of existing provisions. The second point is linked to the role of the Ministry's competent bodies in carrying out checks and sanctions. This draft law forms the conditions for the development of an orderly and accelerated control and sanctions procedure, by improving the services provided and the taking up of control and inspection tasks for the benefit of the audit mechanism of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. The third point is to ensure the necessary conditions for the sustainability and modernisation of livestock establishments. With the aim of achieving procedures under appropriately organised supervision, we are reducing the time needed to complete the relevant procedures while establishing a new culture, more friendly to the rural business. It is therefore obvious that not only should we leave back a legal arsenal weak and inappropriate for the needs of the modern agricultural producer, but also make the appropriate conditions for developing a series of new opportunities. Encouraging entrepreneurship in the livestock sector and creating healthy businesses, strengthening supervisory mechanisms, moving into our own logic and incorporating it into the bill we are discussing today. The improvement of products produced for the benefit of both investors and consumers is also our undeniable aim. Supporting, for example, the competitiveness of Greek agricultural production for the benefit of the country's rural economy and development, or strengthening farmers and those employed in the rural economy, is at the heart of our political and ideological formation. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote in favour of a bill that corrects omissions, failures and errors of the one who replaces it is a sign of our institutional maturity. When it does not concern regulations for the agricultural world, their producers and their products, the vote in favour goes beyond what institutional advantages are and becomes an advantage of society. This is because, however much as the regulations of this draft law concern farmers, we can only admit their multiple impact on agricultural production, the economy of rural areas, the entrepreneurship and the competitiveness of our country's agricultural products. This is another excellent, essential reason to vote positively on the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Cappato. Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Barkas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday was the European Day for the Protection of Children from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse, and today is the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. It is two days that the House has honoured with a cross-party debate and Members' seats, representatives of the parties in which they have all defended and the protection of children, but also today, the elimination of violence against women. There have been steps in this direction. It is, however, important to say that any gaps exist to protect these two dominant groups that are being abused in the world and in our country should be covered. We'll have to take more steps. I think, therefore, that there should be a substantial reference from everyone for these two days of child protection, but also for the elimination of violence against women, because unfortunately in our country in 2021, in this year, we have thirteen feminine murders, thirteen young girls who have lost their lives because of the attack by friends and friends, by men. So I think we should take further steps in this direction. Mr President, this bill, entitled 'Actions to facilitate and modernise the establishment and operation of livestock facilities' by the Ministry of Rural Development, should in turn wish the relevant Minister in passing and quickly return to plenary - it is another bill which, as is heard by all sides, is about facilitating and helping the rural world, which, unfortunately, is difficult to achieve because of the government's policies. We cannot therefore not have this debate in view of the general political context in which this bill comes. For the agricultural world, ladies and gentlemen, is faced with very great financial difficulties because of the pandemic and its consequences from the restriction of their own production, but also with other productive actions where they are in conjunction with the rural world, the climate crisis, the accuracy and other problems that pandemic has caused. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you come here and you are satisfied with the positions of the Ministry of Rural Development with regard to aid to the rural world, but without realizing that the climate crisis, but also the accuracy of it, lead to the reduction of the wealth produced by farmers, to the reduction of agricultural production. Because you may think that this bill helps the rural world, it helps farmers in our country, but you should be aware that the climate crisis and accuracy based on your own political position and other ministries, which the ministries are linked to each other, lead the rural world to get out of their profession. You cannot know, for example, that PPC, which you privatize, has cut off the current in TWG, local land improvements agencies, without the possibility of farmers watering their fields. Is that what you think it can help agricultural production? Or the fact that the climate crisis is de facto leading to the exit from the agricultural profession of people who have invested in this sector, have invested in infrastructure and production. You have left out of the subsidies from the entire branches that seem to want to help the country's produceable wealth, for example, the pig farmers in the country do not come into the compensation you have done because of the koruna.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u116	The pig farmers have taken 13.5 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u117	I know, Minister, that they have not gone and that they find it difficult to get, but I hope it is not what I am saying. The payment of the basic payment due to the mess you have created is reduced by 63 million. And you come here and welcome a bill which, in any case, will not lead to a solution to all the problems that have arisen in the agricultural production of the country. So I think, Minister, that this bill does not touch the main problems faced by Greek farmers. It does not respond to the basic problems faced by Greek farmers. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say that this bill cannot be done beyond and outside - as much as you want to do - from the sound reality experienced by the Greek people. Today we have broken another record, one of the people who have been invaded because of the coronary. They're over six hundred. Death only in November, Minister, is over a thousand six hundred. People die in the hallways intact, because there are no intensive treatment units, because you close your eyes to a problem you think - as the Prime Minister has said - that it is still manageable. Nowhere and nothing is managed. You have no sense of what's going on in the country. You're all coming here saying that Kyriakos Mitsotakis has done and it's cracked, and the Prime Minister has announced six times that we are going through the last mile of this pandemic, and unfortunately every day that passes, we break a record. All the scientists - whom you are not just listening to, but who are downgrading them, as far as their scientific field is concerned - and all the scientific community is concerned, that unfortunately our country will go far worse. We're talking about a hundred dead people, and all you're doing is smiling. You are mocking at a problem for which the Deputy Minister for Health itself says there can be no intensive treatment units only with respirators. She recognizes the problem and you say they open intensive treatment units. The worst part of this is that while you recognize that the country is in a war, there is a time of war against pandemic, friends of Mr. Mitsotakis the owners of clinics are out of war. At the same time, the Deputy Minister for Health says that they should be persuaded to go out of O.R. program which is scheduled. You were told about more than ten thousand cancelled scheduled surgery only in hospitals in Athens and you cancel the scheduled surgery, allowing private clinical authorities not just to help manage a pandemic, but to manage these surgery, these people, our people, our people. Mr. Skertsos Mr. Mitsotakis' right hand, "Maximou deep" said there was no study that the virus was stuck among the police. The police, however, Minister and the New Democracy Members, are human beings and they are sadly stuck. And they stick because they're above all human beings. The scientific community says there should be distance measures. However, since you manage voters alone in this war, this pandemic does not listen to the proposals of counterpopulation that are many. Just do your head. Mr Papadimitriou - to be very happy with the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and obviously the Government - said that it is those who are joining the IGC who have lost their hopes and that it is a decision of the doctors who are entering the IGC and who have died. It's a public statement by Mr. Papadimitriou. Rejoice him! [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Don't you know Mr. Papadimitriou? So Mr Papadimitriou is a Member of the New Democracy. It belongs to the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and has said this in public. We, therefore, because we listen to scientists, say that in intensive care units people are hospitalized because they too must be saved. They need to be invaded to save themselves. Mr. Papadimitriou says they're dying. Unfortunately, your strategy in managing this pandemic is. You say it yourself and you think that you say it yourself, because precisely because you have paid the media, you think that this will not be heard by our fellow people, will not be heard by the Greek people. It's unprecedented. He's gone beyond his imagination of making an inquisition, which has a surname and is called the Pecha list, without calling on the man himself, who is considering the way he has shared public money. You do not think that he should come to the Committee of Inquiry. Do you know what the problem is, Minister? The problem is that you have a problem with democracy. You don't want democracy in our country. You have a problem with democracy, with democracy, with the demand for society to exercise control over the government of what it does. And I shall end, Mr President, and thank you. Mr. Mitsotakis came and announced some measures in the Greek Parliament saying that he is a help to the nurses, to the people who manage the pandemic, to the people with disabilities and to the pensioners, the low pensioners. So he announced some measures, but they conflict with what you have done. I was lucky, Minister, to be at the Ministry of Labour when we announced in March 2019 the thirteenth pension, all of which was given to low pensioners up to EUR 500 and up to 50% of the pensioners there. We gave 2016 a social dividend of 629 million - you did not vote - 750 million in 2017 - I do not remember whether you voted or not - 780 million in 2018 and then your Chief said they were crumbs. What do you give? You gave 175 million in 2019, 54 million in 2020 and for 2021 Mr Mitsotakis announced 330 million measures. Really? Do you think that this is the help you should give without memorials, with growth in the Greek people, who are currently experiencing the accuracy of the increase in PPC, in their everyday life, in the supermarket and cannot live? Is this the help that you are working on at the same time as you think you are really helping the health industry in our country, our nurses, for whom you announced a Christmas allowance without having paid them overtime for six months now? But, from there on, did you communicate aid to the health workers of the country, at the same time as you are reducing the health budget of 900 million? Can you think this is the way to deal with the people in the first line for the pandemic? After that, is that the reaction you're making to the health care of the country? You haven't made a single intake anywhere. There's no doctor anywhere. To nurses, nothing. [[Laughers in the Chamber from the New Democracy Wing]] And you're laughing? Are you laughing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u118	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u119	But are you serious what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u120	Are you laughing when the country passes...?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u121	He didn't interrupt you, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, that is respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u123	Don't respect them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u124	Time-respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u125	Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u126	Don't bother with them, Mr. President. It's them. They're so few. Don't bother with them. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Is that the attitude to health? Is that the attitude you're showing towards the people in the front line? Really? I think, Mr President, that this government is not just interested in solving problems facing the Greek people, but, unfortunately, it is inflating them and the sooner you leave, the sooner you empty the corner, the more easily the Greek people will be able to move.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u127	Are you asking for elections? Say it. Make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u128	Please. He didn't interrupt you. And he heard things. The world will draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u129	No more lies from the government. End the lies from Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr Barca.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u131	We were patient.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u132	You'll be patient because you're disrespectful when I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u133	Please, Mr. Barca.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u134	You're disrespectful.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u135	Please, Mr. Barca. Please. You've been good at it all this time. And you're not one of the naughty people. How did you get away from me now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u136	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u137	Please, Mr. Antoniadis. He's right. He didn't interrupt anyone. He said things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u138	He gave you a line not to be concerned with us. But you didn't answer him. That's where we got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u139	No, he didn't say that. I said the world would judge. Mr Antoniadis, let us put a perfect one and deal with what we have to do. Thank God Mr. Catherine's here. There's an intercom. You want me to do it five minutes from now on? It is mainly about the New Democracy and the SYRIZA that have many speakers. There's both KINAL, Mr. Goka and Mrs. Likoli, if I'm not mistaken. Do you agree for a five-minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u140	Yeah, with a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u141	Mr Kalamatianos and Mrs Liikolis are not in agreement. We're on like this. He has asked for the floor and I will give him the floor, Mr Simeon Kedicoglou, for his dentistry. Please be very quiet on the left side now and cool. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u142	I'm sorry. I'm going to start a little differently after this recital - to say it diligently - inaccurate, unreasonable - how can I say it? - by SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. It's too much to accuse us of lying. I don't know if you said a truth. I only hold this: you said we have not given a penny to farmers and we have given them EUR 13.5 million. Their federation thanked me personally for the support we give them. As for the pandemic, unfortunately, see what's going on around the world. See what's going on in the rest of Europe. It's a virus that's mutating, it's a virus that's evolving, and the least we can do is not hurt the message, like, unfortunately, make your strains, about the need for universal vaccinations. But let's get to the point. I'll try to be as brief as possible. I'll tell you a number to understand how this bill practically supports Greek livestock. They're talking numbers. They're the elements of the ministry's services, which I'm filing out. Right now there are a hundred thousand livestock units. How many do you think they're licensed? Sixteen thousand. Only these are authorised to establish and operate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u143	How many did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u144	Sixteen thousand seven hundred. Nearly seventeen thousand. From one hundred to ten thousand there are almost 100 000 livestock facilities that we allow them, we give them the opportunity to legalise, but the main thing is to be financed, to be able to make use of Community programmes, to develop their own businesses, to develop them, but also to local economies. Only for this element should you vote in favour of the bill. I'll be quick, I'll only give a few answers. With regard to the basis, the electronic platform for the recording of authorised livestock establishments shall indicate that, according to the provisions of Law 4056/12, the notifications are submitted to the competent IPM in paper form. A register is kept at the central competent department of the Ministry and within a short time the platform will be activated www.notify business on gov.gr and for livestock facilities. This bill concerns - I say this once again - small and medium-sized farmers who are almost 50% to 60%. Not only is the cohesive economy favoured, but it is also protected by the small- and medium-sized farmers, who now ensures their viability legally. The economy was in the former regime. We allow the small and medium-sized farmers to get rid of all the pressures he has had up to now from various countries, to escape the stress if he is going to break down his handkerchief, to be able to evolve, to enter Community programmes, to develop. As far as Rule 9 is concerned, I have told you and the committee so again. The provisions of Article 9 shall apply taking into account the specific provisions on animal health. In any event, the proposed provision clearly states that the animal health provisions are also taken into account in relation to distances between slaughterhouses and pedigree flocks and hatcheries. Hence the sentence of Article 9 ‘except slaughterhouses without prejudice to specific animal health provisions’. Without prejudice to the specific provisions it shall ensure that, on the basis of applicable legislative and epidemiological data, it is approached on a case-by-case basis. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] I would like two more minutes, Mr President. You also know that the proximity of the slaughterhouses, while respecting all the health and environmental provisions, and these provisions also have the approval of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Health. It's better for animals in the sense that they don't have the movement, which is an extra suffering. As far as the specific ecological assessment is concerned, we are talking about small and medium-sized establishments. It is not necessary, and that is why there is no requirement for a specific ecological examination. As regards the management plans for grazing - that is all I can say and will close - I will tell you the story. We are giving it an extension because we must finally - and this is what I think we all agree in this Chamber - that there should be management plans for grazing. There was a timer and I'll tell you soon why there was a timer. Only ten regions are needed. The nine and one, that is, ten regions, have signed, but they cannot complete the required procedures by 31 December. The period required for their training shall be at least two years. That is why the extension of the two years. Be sure that we will be on top of exerting every pressure to complete it as quickly as possible. We need the grazing land plans. But let's take a look at the history. In 2014, the Government of New Democracy voted for Law 4264 setting as pasture woodland the woody, plentiful and forging land and provided for the completion of the management plans until 15-5-2018. In 2015, your government along with the unfamiliar memory of Independent Greeks. Instead of applying Law 4264 you have issued your own law since 2015, Law 4351 and the deadline went up to 31-1-2019. However, you have taken one and a half years until the adoption of the decision setting out the specifications and content of the management plans and therefore the government was forced to extend for completion until 31/12-2021. In 2019, the government Mitsotakis is coming. The political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development does not find a signed programme agreement. In an effort to win the lost time, the Minister for Rural Development - Macis Vorides was then - in February 2020 to the regional directors of the country and a sample of a contract to submit observations, with a view to signing the programming contracts as quickly as possible. On December 31, 2020, on the Minister of Maki Voridis, the first programming contract was signed with the Region of Western Macedonia, yours, dear rapporteur of Minority. Since then, nine other programming contracts have been signed. Soon we believe that the Region of Central Macedonia will also sign. The Region of Attica and the Ionian Islands have said they do not want to sign, so the Ministry of Rural Development is already taking responsibility back, preparing relevant notices to proceed quickly. I think it is clear who has delayed and who is running in practice. But I don't mean to say. I do not want to abuse time anymore, because it is a long meeting. I thank you all, but I think that only the fact that we will give hundreds of thousands of farmers the opportunity to legalise and take advantage of Community programmes should make you all voted in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Undersecretary, do we have anything on the amendment that Mr. Lambroulis said?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u146	Mr Stylos is on his way to the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u147	Let's go back to the talkers' series...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u149	Of course, Mr Katrin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we could in many ways agree with what you said about the content of the bill. But I cannot agree with the repeated tactics of the government expressed by you today, to try on the issue of the pandemic and the situation that exists to target political spaces and political persons in order to evade your responsibilities. Stop this paralytic and inefficient tactic at last. The issue of pandemic and vaccination is not for political benefit, Minister. You have to understand. Before addressing another side of the House - you are not the first or only minister - you said that some people in the Chamber are blurring the mark. It's been the permanent argument for two months. You see that it does not produce results and instead of passing a clear message to the Greek society that we all agree and we put back on a difficult situation, very difficult, you insist on working on these issues for political benefit. At last, stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Catherine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u153	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u154	I'll only need a minute. You misinterpreted me. The Change Movement has barely given the right signal to the whole difficult effort. I have spoken about individual colleagues who, by their actions, have acted with their moves - I do not want to name them, but they are well known in the Greek - have blurred the stigma. But I am pleased, because we agree on the main point. The Greek Parliament must give the message of universal vaccination. I believe that we agree with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u155	And all the MPs should be vaccinated, right? Don't forget that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Santorinier, please. Mr Constantine Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, please! We won't open a conversation now who's vaccinated. Here, Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u157	You're right, ladies and gentlemen. We must not work on the pandemic issue. I disagree with you, Mr. Catarini. There are political spaces that work for the pandemic. And you tell me if the demoralising question, headed by Mr Marcos and thirty-seven SYRIZA Members who neither sign it much nor much do they sign it and say that it is the death of workers in intensive care units because they are untrained. So tell me if this is not a job, if it is not a disruption of public opinion and confidence in the health system. Let me not mention what the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative said earlier about police officers, 80% of which are vaccinated. In any case, what did my colleague propose? Did he propose we take them out on parole? Because they say to return from the suspension and the sanitary who are suspended as the only sector for which the measure has been implemented. So say, if there is really no pandemic workout. There is no right for this fellow Member to move the finger to the Members of the New Democracy by saying that they are, when the Minister who is disapproved himself and the procedure himself, because he is not sitting in the Chamber to hear the answer he has to give to him. These few things about your location. I am going to the bill, because the core of this bill to which we must concentrate today is the simplification of the establishment and operation of livestock facilities. The Government of New Democracy considers the primary production of the main pillar not only economic development and safe supply of the country with high-definition goods. This is exactly what Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis pointed out a few days ago, announcing the return of the excise duty on agricultural oil for collaborative schemes and young farmers in 2022. At the same time, our aim remains to maintain the high quality of Greek meat and milk and this can be done through increased supervision of the good functioning of livestock units and strict control of products produced. On the other hand, however, this supervision cannot impose excessive restrictions on the development of these units. After all, the intended and desirable tightening, for example, of controls on the movement of lambs on issues of Hellenization, health and safety of products, has nothing to do with urban issues. So in this spirit, for the first time, we are giving permits to a series of forage facilities with hand-made constructions, since they do not concern their building skeleton. Secondly, we are reducing the minimum restoration of livestock facilities of up to 50% from protected activities, since they are up to 10 km from the border. Thirdly, we simplify the procedure for the establishment and operation of Category B livestock establishments and downwards. Fourthly, we are able to amend the permit to keep livestock in or near inhabited areas with a view to improving existing hygiene conditions or modernising activities. An additional extension shall be granted until 31/12-2022 for farmers to request that their establishments be maintained in or near residential areas. Finally, we are reducing the fine imposed to 5% for the owner of a livestock plant making the legalisation of arbitrariness. Minister, I want to stay in the pasture arrangement a little bit. For two more years then, until 31/12-2023 of the deadline for the preparation, submission and approval of the country's grazing land management plans. It is very important to stress that there is indeed a need to allocate the pastures taken into account when calculating the compensation for farmers throughout the country. That is why, on the basis of the distribution for Magnesia, I have put you through parliamentary control, and I hope the Ministry of Rural Development will proceed quickly to the new plan for grazing land for the whole territory. I would also like at this point on the occasion of today's debate to return to the question of the financial support for table olive producers, which I have repeatedly put through parliamentary control. It is extremely good that additional resources were saved by the Ministry of Finance in October to support primary production affected by the economic consequences of the pandemic, which will also be made available to the oil producers of southern Pelion. In particular, the farmers of Pelion were particularly tested during the twenty months of the economic crisis caused by the coronary and of course they need immediate support and state aid. That is why I am pleased that the Ministry is speeding up the financing of the olive producers in Magnesia, and I hope that this process will be completed very soon. In particular, to support olive groves in a dual direction, it is necessary to remove all the bureaucratic obstacles in order for these olive producers to receive the exceptional aid due to COVID -19. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to dwell on the very important provision of the ELGA bill, that is to say, by the end of the year, the possibility for ELGA to grant beneficiaries up to 40% of the estimated compensation for damages caused to agricultural crops by the spring glacier in 2021. In particular, I have put a number of interventions to the Ministry in order to make sure not only that insurance cover is paid but also that compensation is paid through the NGOs of the farmers of Pelion, whose fruit trees were affected last February. The same applies to compensation for the affected apple growers and brown producers in the region affected by severe weather phenomena in the Municipality of Zagora - Muresi in October, and last August in East Pelion. Disasters and fruition in the areas of Zagora, Makryrachi and Purio have been added to the write-down of production due to frost and prolonged heat in the previous six months. It is therefore very important that the ELGA proceeds with the enhanced advance compensation and the producers of Pelion affected this year. I would like to point out here another relevant issue, which I have recently put to you, which concerns the need to maintain the associated support for the apple producers and producers of Pelion, and that is why we should not regard the financial support of farmers as a luxury. It is necessary for local communities and a project of our own government. In this direction we will continue to work intensively, providing incentives for regional development, primary production and prosperity for all farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr. Maraveya. We have web-ex intervention. What can we do? The coronary has changed the procedure in Parliament. I am pleased to see the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Lebanese, who will intervene - a second. Minister, good evening and iron!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u159	Good evening, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your personal wishes and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative and all my dear colleagues. I'll only talk for two minutes. First of all, I would like to say that I am in favour of the part of the amendments. I apologise for the delay, but the situation I find difficult to find. Therefore, only the two ministerial amendments are accepted, the one concerning land workers and state aid, not the part of agricultural rights and not parliamentary amendments. So land workers and state aid. In relation to land workers, I would like to say that it is a very important amendment. As many Members from all the parties have said - Mr Stamenitis has developed it in particular - all those in law-makers who have a great deal of production are aware of the importance of this amendment, this provision. It is the desire of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to become permanent and to join the Immigration Code, and that was our effort so far and that will continue to be. Until then, however, the amendment solves the practical problem for Greek production. As far as the second amendment is concerned, you understand how important it is, and I hope it will have the approval of a large part of this House. With regard to the part of Mr Apostle's position, which I thank for his rapid recovery, I should first like to say something which is clear and which is also an answer to a number of colleagues who are at times placed on the feta issue. I would like to stress once again, and I have said so several times in the House, that for us the protection of feta, like all our other emblematic products, is an absolute priority. I think that we have shown this in practice and we are at the beginning of winning this bet with the scanning controls that we are carrying out on the market and trying to comply with the PDO rules and to ensure real producers. I think your majority has a picture that never in the past - nor in the days of Mr Apostle or, of course, in the four and a half years of SYRIZA - there had been no fines of EUR 260 000 or much less of them, never removed the PDO as it was this year, never made such a concerted effort that has results. I would really expect Mr Apostle's support on this matter and SYRIZA's support in this fight. From there on, on the agreement with South Africa, what I think is of great interest in the position of Mr. Apostle is that SYRIZA made this agreement in 2016, as the former Minister told us, and then voted in favour of the ratification of this agreement this year, when he came to the Greek Parliament. That's the reality. And secondly, because he is right about what he is saying in his concern, I have read his writing - which I mean is that he has just one mistake, that we have not taken place within the five-year period to start this review process. We have already started this process, in particular on 20 April 2021 through our competent bodies in the permanent Greek delegation, we raised the question of extending the protection of feta and we argued that this is very important for the country. In cooperation with Mr Varvitsiotis, who handles it at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we put it in a superior fora so that in the very logic agreed by the government of Mr Apostle, we can proceed to protect our product with South Africa as well. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, Mr Apostolos, you must be sure that in the case of controls, but also in the question of the management of agreements, which we, as a follow-up to the Greek Government, support, do not leave the Greek PDO and, of course, we will not let the flagship, the feta from anyone. Before closing, I wanted to say that, unfortunately, because of the obligations of the Ministry of Rural Development, I am not so much watching the part of the House and I had not seen Mr Gregoriadis for a long time. I confess he was shallow, I remember him as he used to be. I personally prefer him, I've said it myself, as an actor. In any case, apart from humor, I think that today's placement has reached, at the end of particular, a delicacy. I think we should be more held up when we speak in Parliament, when we are representatives of the Greek people if we believe in our democracy and if we believe in the parliamentary system which has brought Kyriakos Mitsotakis to the attention of a large majority and which has shaped his government. This government is a government of all Greeks, democratically elected. And I think that these unequivocal expressions he has used do not fit either in itself, are perhaps being lured by the attitude of opposition of his party, but they do not fit in with anyone who really respects and believes in the Parliamentary Republic. To conclude, I should like to say once again that no one is confused, because I think that some Members of Parliament are asking for it to be accepted that the two amendments, 'land workers' and 'national aid' and, for legal reasons, have been withdrawn after consultation with the General Secretariat of the Government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Katrinis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that we agree with Article 1 of the amendment. I think he's responding to a real problem. At least those who are elected in rural areas are meeting it every day and are putting it to us by the producers themselves. So he's giving a solution. I would like to ask, Minister, on Article 2, because I see you opening up the possibility of a profession, you put in paragraph (b) and you are actually opening the ferry to college graduates can have the same rights as graduates from university schools and university schools which have taken place after the TEIs have been established in universities. If this has been done in other occupations, e.g. The engineers, I see Mr. Style here...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u162	The Minister answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u163	If this thing seems to open the door. Will he withdraw it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u164	Answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u165	Does Article 1 only apply?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u166	He's pulling it off? All of it? OLYMPIA TELIORIORIDE Are professionals withdrew?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u168	So he's retiring. Can you repeat it? Because as you can see, no one understood that. Can you repeat this, Mr. Undersecretary? No one in this Chamber could figure it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u169	The Minister said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u170	You think we shouldn't take care of the minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u171	He's dropping it and he'll be kept in a state of law school. He said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u172	So Article 2 is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u173	Yes, he did. Mr Minister, please make it clear again about Article 2.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u174	Maybe I didn't say it clearly, maybe Mr. Katrinis didn't hear it. I repeat that this part, which began to be withdrawn, is being withdrawn, as I said before for legal reasons, and will be reintroduced as an article in a subsequent government bill. It is therefore not for discussion today or for vote. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Minister. Let's go to the speakers. Let's go to Cardica. Mr Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, bystander. Iron. I hope that the adventure will be over soon, as I soon hope the adventure will end and those who are tested by the coronary pandemic, which is really testing the strengths of both the Greek society and our health system. Of course, I agree with those who think that pandemic is not being offered for exploitation, it is not for work, it is not for micro-grouping or micro-political benefits, and above all what is important for us all to have a single, clear and reliable reason, particularly in relation to that part of our society that is in fear, with concern, doubtless, with refusal to deal with vaccination, because from what all the specialists say, it is the only reliable weapon we have against pandemic, and indeed, together with respect to health measures. Today we are discussing a bill dealing with an important part of Greek society. We are talking about livestock farming, the primary sector, a structural pillar of our country, and I would even point out a stable, reliable pillar of development. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] This has even proved to be true in the last two years when another of our structural pillars, tourism has shown how vulnerable it has been and how sensitive to exogenous factors. The pandemic has hit tourism seriously, and in that sense our Gross National Product has also been hit seriously. So, as a society, as an economy, we should invest as much as possible in economic sectors, such as the primary sector, which are stable, which are not influenced by external factors and, above all, can contribute over time to our national economy. In addition, today's bill is of great importance because it refers to a very large part of our population and that even operates financially, businessly in the countryside of Greece, in the region and especially in areas affected by the bleeding of the population. Mountain and disadvantaged areas are areas that usually retain their population through livestock activity. Farmers are mainly the inhabitants of these areas which, as I said, are suffering from bleeding, population contraction and tend to become lost patriots on the substance inside our country. So if we want to keep these areas alive, rekindle them and refresh them, an important road, a reliable road, is to stimulate and develop livestock farming, and even to expand livestock farming, where our bill focuses, because it gives a solution to those farmers, small and medium-sized, who are currently facing serious problems with their statistic facilities. Over a hundred thousand farmers have a question with their stacking facilities, they have a matter with the forest office, they have a matter with various agencies. That is why the bill is moving in the right direction, which now allows for the exact placement of the stack facilities, which will be passed, and also through the specific town plans and local town planning plans of the municipalities, so that by establishing the territorial constitution of each region, the areas where the stagnation facilities can be developed can be clearly, clearly and without doubt. At the same time, the licensing procedures for these installations are also very much simplified. You should be aware that our farmers are very concerned about bureaucracy, highly dissatisfied with bureaucracy, and it requires bureaucracy to reduce it to the fullest extent possible, so that our farmers are indeed exempted from this burden, that they can legalise their stable facilities and, at the same time, that they are final beneficiaries, that they can exploit all Community programmes, European programmes, in order to improve their production and cultivation, but, above all, become modern, competitive and to gain even more. I would say that our Government, if anything, has shown a great deal of sensitivity over the entire period and has made a great effort to revive the primary sector, which cannot be seen as an unnoticed one, with the last announcement made on agricultural oil, on oil in the primary sector and on the return of excise duty. I am also going to join those who say that this should be the case for all the main occupations of farmers, farmers and farmers. In fact, there are ways of knowing what oil each is entitled to according to its cultivation and the acres it grows and through a very specific and escalating process of satisfying all the people of production, all of our fellow people who are trying to fight with weather phenomena, fighting with the earth, to have this incentive, this advantage. I would even go one step further by saying that it is of paramount importance to dismantle our farmers, our farmers, from energy costs. Net metering, the production of energy, that is to say, to meet their needs, is an excellent opportunity and I would say that the improvement plans, but also the programmes of young farmers, must have strong funding to enable our farmers and farmers to set up such self-production systems that meet their energy needs and even with the rule of three-quarters of the surplus energy to be able to make available to the system so that they can also obtain an extra income. I can only say to the ELGA who, in fact, during the great flood in Karditsa because of the 'Janu' has worked directly and effectively. I think that both Andreas Lykourenzos and the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development have contributed effectively so that this once slow-moving and discomfort mechanism now works quickly, efficiently and directly in response to the problems created by our farmers and farmers, in fact, since the climate crisis will exacerbate these problems and we must be obliged toward the people of production, to the people of hard work to be close to them, to be quick and effective. Mr. Ministers, warm congratulations. I think that even the poverty of arguments on the part of the Opposition or the fact, if you like, that they have 50% of their time in the krone shows that the bill is moving in the right direction. I am voting for it, I support it with all my powers, and I am sure that we will make a significant contribution to the national economy, but also to the national objective of re-living mountainous, disadvantaged and remote regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. Mr Vésyropoulos has the floor, in order to put him on the amendment, with a general number of 1142 and a specific number of 38.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to refer to the amendment with a general number of 1142 and with a special number of 38 tabled by the Ministry of Finance. These are regulations aimed at strengthening and simplifying the framework for the activation of state aid measures, as well as support for enterprises, workers and professional groups affected by the pandemic. As I have repeatedly pointed out, this process has dynamic characteristics, it is evolving and often imposed either new interventions or updates to the existing framework. Details of the articles of the amendment: Article 1 regulates issues related to the demarcation of areas with agricultural holdings after theories. This regulation is necessary in order to include in the State aid measures areas where there are significant and extensive damages in affected farms due to natural disasters, but which cannot be demarcated by the joint decision of the Ministers for Finance, Development, Investment and Infrastructure, as well as inland areas on a case-by-case basis due to a lack of affected buildings. Under Article 1, these areas can now be demarcated by a joint decision of the Ministers for Economic, Home and Rural Development, following a recommendation by the ELGA and the Government Committee on State Aid. Article 2 of the amendment amends the framework relating to the handling of outstanding cases and the opening of the newly established State Aid Directorate of the Ministry of Finance. This is done in order to deal with the oldest assumptions from the existing organic unit in the Ministry of Finance, which has the necessary experience, and at the same time to deal with the most recent outstanding cases more quickly and more effectively. In view of the increased number of natural disasters and their extent, it is necessary to parallel the operation of two case handling structures in order to complete the examination of all cases at a faster pace. Article 3 reinforces the support measures for enterprises affected by the pandemic and suffered major economic losses, which have deteriorated from the adverse effects of natural disasters in areas within the country in 2021. This provision provides for the possibility of aiding them through the temporary State aid measure in the form of a grant. The sums to be granted through such aid shall be duty-free, unequal and inappropriate to the hands of the public or third parties, shall not be subject to any reservation, fee or levy, shall not be frozen and shall not be netted out with established debts to the tax administration, public and credit institutions. The measure aims to support enterprises, including those affected by the fires in the Evia region and other parts of the country, as well as to support operations in northern Greece affected by the ice-cream. Article 4 of the amendment amends the existing institutional framework in order to allow matters under the aid scheme to be settled in the form of a refund in the form of an advance in respect of the procedure for reimbursement of unduly paid amounts, the control and certification of the amounts to be recovered and the confirmation and recovery of the sums wrongly paid to undertakings. All this will be determined by a joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for Economic and Financial Affairs and Investment which will be adopted in the near future. Finally, Article 5 of the amendment provides for the granting of one-off financial support to owners, coaches and riders of horses under the European de minimis regulation 1407/2013. This financial assistance will be determined on the basis of the lost prizes of the time periods in 2020, during which no racing activity was carried out due to exceptional measures to deal with the pandemic and up to 50% of those prizes. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with his disapproval of the needs of society, intervenes with constant legislative arrangements to relieve all those in need. All the articles in the amendment that I have just analysed must be broadly supported across-the-board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis, now has the floor in order to ask the Minister something on the amendment, I imagine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u180	Always.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u181	You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u182	I take this opportunity since Mr Besyropoulos has spoken of relief from the Prime Minister to tell him that we in the firefighting Elias have heard too much, but unfortunately we have seen little. However, I will take you to the amendment because it is linked to Article 2 of the amendment, with the delimitation. I would like to ask something about Article 3, which gives me an impression. You bring an article to the National Representation which says that in areas affected by natural disasters and natural disasters in general, in businesses affected by COVID, the House should vote, to authorize the Ministry of Finance to adopt a decision that will give support to these enterprises without knowing what conditions and conditions are laid down by the National Representation. I don't understand that. Say directly, Mr. Minister, "we will give the firefighting operations of Evia and Elijah that have fallen to so much because of COVID this amount, by this programme, by this process." It is not legal to say 'we refer to a decision setting out the criteria which will be met by what procedures' and to Parliament voting on this provision. Clearly what exactly this aid is about and what companies. The House cannot be "washer" for you to make micropolitical, Minister, allegedly on the grounds of destruction either because of the naturalities or because of the COVID. So tell us directly "we will give a refundable advance of no return to these businesses that have such a turnover and have these characteristics". Clear things. As I also do not understand Rule 4, Mr President, which says that it will refer again to a ministerial decision to determine the conditions which will be unduly paid. I thought the government had created a coherent framework in which anyone illegally taking state money from support measures because of the pandemic also has an automatic way of finding and returning. I do not understand why this provision is coming. So you must give us some clarification, Minister, to know exactly what we are voting on and who is concerned with both Articles 3 and 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u183	Minister, would you like to give an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u184	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u185	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, Article 3 is clear. It speaks of businesses that have been affected by the consequences of the pandemic and at the same time by natural disasters. We are talking about the areas of firefighting in northern Evia and other areas of the country, such as Elias, Laconia, Messinia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u187	What are you going to do? You didn't tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u188	This in all measures, Mr Colleague, which you have voted for so far is by authorizing the Minister of Finance and, where appropriate, the Minister responsible. You have voted for it and agreed to it many times and I am surprised that you are asking this matter today, since you voted on all these measures which had the same authorization, such as the repayable advance and the other measures that we have taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u189	But tell us what you're going to give.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u190	This provision, Article 3 of this amendment, which concerns your region, is very positive. It is precisely for the businesses in your region that, while they have been affected by the pandemic, have also been hit by the fire in this particular period.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u191	What are you going to give?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u192	Let's go to the article now. 4. Article 4 lays down the conditions and conditions for the repayment of the advance, the amounts, the method of reimbursement of those amounts and the method of recovery and reimbursement of those amounts. Some want to make use of the paragraph of the provision that said you can return the one-off amount with 15% discount. Or someone wants to return for other reasons the amount of the repayable advance, for example, to enter a ERR programme. This provision enables us to authorize the Minister to determine the conditions and conditions for the reimbursement, confirmation and recovery of these amounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Minister. Now I'll give Mr. Style a minute's speech on legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u194	We have legislative improvements, Mr Lebanese has signed them. We would like to testify to them so that they can be made aware.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u195	They must be photographed and distributed to colleagues. We shall now proceed to the Member of the New Democracy Parliament, Mr Vassiliou, who has the floor for seven minutes. I would ask everyone to respect time, because a proposal to reduce it has not been accepted. At least we have to apply the Rules of Procedure completely. Here, you have the floor, Mr Vassiliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, most of us come from regions of the Greek region in which the primary sector has been for generations whole and is still the engine of the local economy, with a strong impact on the national economy as well through extroversion. I'll say it as simple as I can to make it understandable. We have to keep the Greek livestock standing. Unfortunately, the situation is not favourable. The effects of the pandemic, as well as the external wave of precision that passes through the Greek economy, affect livestock farming as well. Costs of raw materials and animal feed go up, many foreign markets remain closed, demand has fallen, energy costs are even passed on to farmers. The world food supply chain has not yet recovered. It is imperative, therefore, that we ensure the survival of the livestock sector, which tends to disappear in Greece and motivate young people to stay in their country and to deal with livestock farming. Attention, however, would be a disastrous mistake to stay in tested and failed logic of the past that want the Greek farmer permanently dependent on a state of merciful mercy, as was the case for many years in the agricultural sector. We must, on the one hand, leave space to the farmers themselves who know better than anyone the specificities of their work, develop the industry, and, on the other, encourage young professionals to take the necessary risks to introduce entrepreneurship into the industry and give value to their work. On the other hand, we must establish a strong protection net for the primary sector so that farmers and producers do not live with the constant threat of an exogenous disaster which may have a devastating impact on their income. And because, as you know, every crisis is also an opportunity, the time-consuming Ministry of Rural Development and Food chose to table the draft law under discussion could not be better. The draft law comes to correct the weaknesses of Law 4056/2012 that do not allow legal operation in 80% of the country's livestock establishments. And of course, I am referring to the rough accommodation. Simplification of licensing procedures and not horizontal legitimisation, as it wishes to present a portion of counter-population, will improve their operation and allow for their sustainability. In addition, chronic issues relating to controls are resolved to make them easier and more effective, while also making it easier to penalise offenders. It is about implementing the New Democracy's election commitments for a new era in the primary sector with quality and internationally competitive products that will provide greater income for farmers and producers, but also new jobs for local communities. This legislation introduces a modern, simple, flexible and effective framework for the establishment and operation of livestock establishments. I therefore call on the parties that in the committee responsible have declared their reservation to support the Ministry's legislative initiative. Mr President, I now come to the provisions concerning the ELGA. I referred to the need for a credible protection mechanism to be available to the unforeseen. Especially this year, and especially in the case of the ice-cream losses, I think the agency has worked exemplaryly. We must recognise this, not as an exception but as the rule for the operation of the ELGA from now on. Despite the unprecedented volume of statements, the beneficiaries get findings and are paid back within a year to 100% and not partially, as the previous government used to pay. And not only this, for the first time after many years, ELGA has provided advances so that producers can cover the current costs and ensure the next year. It is really important and the rural world recognises this. Especially in Pella, we have had extensive disasters on too many crops. And let me remind you of the outstanding situation, Mr Ministers, with the out-of-court declarations from the ELGA regulation as a result of pre-anthic stage. In Pella, it concerns a significant number of producers in the mountainous volume, where we are really talking about very big damage, to the limits of total destruction. There have been announcements, estimates and a state aid mechanism has been activated, so we are soon awaiting positive developments so that these fellow citizens can also be relieved. In conclusion, Mr President, let me turn to the amendment with a general number of 1141 and a special number 37, in particular the article on the procedure for the withdrawal of land workers from third countries. Even before the pandemic, I and a number of colleagues had highlighted the importance of a simple and effective process, in good time known and available to interested parties for the relocation of land workers. I am pleased that the application platform will be reopened by the end of the year. It is also important from now on to know that the same process will be followed last year and that the platform will be open in time, especially in northern Greece. I would also like to refer to the amendment with a general number of 1142 and a special 38, in particular on Article 33, which the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Vesyropoulos, mentioned before, which enables aid to enterprises affected by natural disasters, from practical phenomena and a loss of income. In particular, in our areas such as Pella, Imathia and others, it concerns many businesses in the agri-food sector. From the catastrophic glacier, therefore, all these businesses have been affected, and with this amendment, we are able, as in producer groups and in cooperatives, to strengthen them to stand up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u197	We are also grateful to Mr Vassiliou and to him for the consistency in time. I call on Stepma now SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Ms Anastasia Gara for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill today on stable facilities, a very important issue which has been of great concern to us for many years, but at a time when we are facing enormous problems for the rural and livestock world. Indifference, omissions, mismanagement of the pandemic by the government is intensified by the problems of producers, who are really desperate. It seems to me that the New Democracy Government does not understand it. The cost of production has reached the level with farmers to wonder if it is in the end economically advantageous to continue to be in production or if they will abandon it, as many have done over the last two years. Debts are being glorified for them, oil accuracy, current, fertilizers, supplies, and, unfortunately, the government remains simply spectator without taking any measures to support or strengthen these people. At the same time, the Mitsotakis Government reduced the payment of the basic aid by EUR 63 million to producers at the same time as the People's Markets Bill, effectively abolishing their participation in them, while at the same time it is characterized by its total indifference to the real needs of society. Despair and anger run out, Mr Ministers, in the rural world. The image is better described by farmers in the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace themselves in their resolution that we have tabled to the House with colleagues from the SYRIZA in our region, accusing the current political leadership of - take note, Mr Ministers - of presenting a beautiful picture that has nothing to do with the harsh reality of farmers. That's what you've never answered. At the same time, farmers are asking, among other things, for aid for the purchase of feedingstuffs, reduced electricity for livestock farms, a representation of farmers in supervised bodies and consultations on the new CAP, institutional intervention to stop illegal Greekisation - a huge problem - and much more. You accused us of having no contact and we don't know what's going on in livestock farming, Mr. Secretary, in your initial position. Truly, I wonder when the government and you, the Ministers responsible, will come out of this virtual picture that both the media and your communicationists have made. Because everything you are presenting has nothing to do with the daily lives and problems of farmers and producers, at least in our region. That is why we invite you to visit the areas and to speak not at sound meetings, but with the real producers and farmers, to listen to the problems and to give real solutions. So the government is absent from the real problems. You bring a bill today, which in theory attempts to correct distortions and diseases of the past, but in reality it does little to interfere with the actual everyday life of farmers. In July 2020, you brought a corresponding draft law on the licensing of school facilities. Fifteen months later, you bring corrective provisions to the first bill, without giving real solutions again. All fragmented, all superficial. And here, once again, we're looking for the excellence of the state of excellence. We have also followed it with the legislation you are bringing to the amendments. Because you cannot withdraw the amendments, correct them, reinstate them in a proper way. Indeed, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the government is not vacant. Because we must not forget history, at least in Parliament. SYRIZA in 2019, after long consultation with the competent authorities and the relevant bodies, had prepared a concrete proposal to simplify the procedures and activities in the primary sector, which concerned the operation of both the rough accommodation currently in existence and operating as a stackhouse and the younger farms, more modern, which have been created in recent years mainly through improvement plans. Unfortunately, the New Democracy has chosen this documented finding, which could make use of, take suggestions and bring it as legislation, and has preferred to throw it in the bucket for two years now. The most important thing, however, is that this bill does not take into account very basic parameters, with the result that the legislation you bring to be a gift for the majority of farmers. For small and medium-sized farmers, those who have a small turnover and are currently the vast majority, more than 60%, do not change much about the licensing regime, as they continue to be obliged to deposit the institutions at the relevant DAG, as was the case before, pursuant to the 2012 Act. Accordingly, under Article 10 for the authorisation to intervene in forests, forests and grassland areas, it is assumed that the time required for the establishment of livestock units in grassland and rocky areas is minimised. However, we wonder how this provision will be applied, when the New Democracy is not currently responsible for having dominated forest maps and the objections have been frozen, when the New Democracy is now doing everything in its power to undermine the reform of the forest maps that it started for the first time in the rule of SYRIZA, after forty years in the absence of forestry policy. So you bring an empty set of rules, which is impossible to implement in practice, no matter how positive it is as a legislature. You also bring in a bill that promotes, supposedly, the simplification of the establishment and operation of livestock facilities and you do not even anticipate the operation of an electronic platform at the Ministry to carry out these checks. The important omission is that, in the planned vertical production through processing, the households, cooperatives, producer groups, while there is no reference to the bill for the operation of livestock parks. And then we wonder about whom you legislate and what interests you serve. The problem is also Article 9, which provides for the abolition of an obligation to keep a minimum distance from slaughterhouses. Very important, because it poses risks to public health and animal welfare and the environment, as large shipments of waste and waste water are collected in the areas concerned. Very negative, too, that no minimum distances are identified from aquifer sources, from drinking water reservoirs and others. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am closing and thank you, Mr President - we have a bill of fragmentary nature, with many omissions, which does not give any real solutions. The biggest problem, however, is that the New Democracy Government lacks any plans to support, develop and modernise livestock farming. No plan for the reconstruction of primary production, no intervention policy, support for affected producers. Unfortunately, we have a government which is absent from society's needs, which is indifferent to the problems of the rural world, and which is deaf in front of their demands and proposals. It is a government that legislates for a few and chosen and is only interested in the reproduction of the power of the same government. That is why different, modern, radical, progressive, pluralist policies are needed, which will first of all have the needs of society and will develop policies for the reconstruction of the primary sector, which are essentially employing and ensuring the income of thousands of families, particularly in the large region of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Gara. The speaker of the SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Dionysius - Charalambos Kalamatianos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are talking today about another bill for our producers, another draft law on the primary sector, the primary sector that is multipathy and which does not only have to deal with the heavy consequences of pandemic, the great problems of placing products on the market, does not only have to deal with the accuracy and appreciation of farmland, feed, fuel, electricity, services and transport, which does not have to deal with just the launching of production costs and operating costs, it does not have to deal with the climate crisis and the great and extensive damage from the intense and extreme weather effects. Recently we have had the catastrophic summer fires. It also has to deal with your own ideas. He has to deal with compensation delays. It also has to deal with a large reduction in the basic aid by 63 million this year. It has to deal with the phenomena of illusion and Hellenism. You have recently been right and unreasonable obstacles to small and medium-sized producers in trying to sell their products on the people's markets. You have effectively cancelled their right in these difficult times to have their products placed on the people's markets. In my place, Elias, the rural world is unjust and forgotten. For many producers compensation from heat and ice is still ignored. There are producers who have not been supported at all by the consequences of the pandemic and others who have not been compensated as much as they should. We have repeatedly raised this issue and have repeatedly stressed that there should be compensation for this year's pandemic and this year's. It has not been done and there are major problems this year. Raisin: There is a huge issue with the raisin. It remains available in the producers' warehouses. We keep telling you to act, we keep telling you to do it. We are telling you that the state should be the buyer of a last resort, that producers should be given immediate support and that there should be a relief to this problem. But you continue to care for and plunge raisin producers into despair and tolerance. There is also the issue of acarpia in citrus fruits and reduced production this year. No compensation for these producers. Unfortunately, there are also the producers who lost everything because of the fires in the summer. Many of them have not even received aid. There are others who take nothing, because they cannot be compensated, who are not in the process of compensation by the ELGA. We have been calling for a long time since August that there should be an exceptional allowance for these growers, for those producers who have been destroyed by the fires in the areas where this disaster occurred and, unfortunately, there is no such exceptional allowance. We say there should be a way to make up for lost income. All these people, even if they now start to rebuild their crops, rebuild their olive groves, they will have production after seven to eight years. How will these people live on what income? Is there any provision for them? They're fighting, they're shouting. Unfortunately, the government is deaf. I'm coming to the bill now. Almost a year ago with Law 4711/2020 you told us that you were simplifying procedures for the establishment and operation of livestock facilities. You obviously didn't work and you're coming now and you're legislating again. Of course, you are not the only Ministry that, within a short period of time, legislates again, because it was obviously incomplete the measures and provisions that they voted on in the recent past. With the bill you are bringing today, you are once again trying with balls, with the inconsistency of your own legislative interventions to improve failures, shortcomings and omissions. But still, problems remain. You come and say you found a lasting solution to the legalisation of existing stack facilities. The truth is that you think you are solving the problems, simplifying procedures and once again many issues you refer them to be solved by ministerial decisions. However, it is clear that the bill does not benefit farmers with small turnovers. The vast majority of farmers are out of order. Basically, they continue at the stage of the establishment of livestock establishments to submit to the responsible department all the documents provided for by current legislation, but also at the stage of creation and operation, must deposit the remaining documents laid down in the current framework. They're just going to file them a little later. The problems of permits remain with regard to forestry services. There is no link between the need to protect NATURA and the sustainable rural economy. Do you really not agree that it is effective for the farmer himself to be involved in the care, operation and protection of forest ecosystems? The effectiveness of this interconnection we lived in the summer in Elias, where, with a heartwarming effort, the inhabitants of the villages, the farmers and the farmers saved the villages and the neighboring forests. Of course, the absence of this interface is not accidental. It's about the forest maps, the forest maps you're undermining. The SYRIZA government, after decades, has put order on this issue, and you are constantly putting on the ground. But neither do grazing management plans go any further. While you were in the Opposition, you yelled to move on. Now why don't you run? It's a question. In addition, you do not solve the major problems of issuing a licence for establishment for establishments within communities that are characterised as mountainous mountainous areas. At the same time, no provision, no care and no care for the creation of livestock parks demarcating into public or municipal areas. It seems you do not care for farmers to have access to public spaces and public infrastructure, electricity, water and roads. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let's go to ELGA now. Although you announced 100% of the insured value, you do not abolish -30% for damages in pre-anthic and bloom stage of ice cream. So what 100% are we talking about? In conclusion, what's left of the bill? There is still an insufficient effort to resolve important issues which are afflicting our producers, and there remains another failure to legislate on a comprehensive and coherent framework that will give answers and solutions to the major problems of farmers. Once again, then, you are unable to intervene decisively on the crucial issues of the agricultural world, a rural world which sees its income day after day squeezing and decreasing, of a rural world that accepts one step after another, which sees its products remain in the stores or rotting in the field, which sees the accuracy of strangled him, which sees the government carelessly and maintains that everything will be regulated by the free market, the invisible hand of the market, without any state aid, without any state interference.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u201	Finish, Mr. Kalamatiane.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u202	I shall conclude, Mr President. In fact, you have wondered how all these people stand and how they are still being held up, how will they get above the increased cost of living, the increased operating costs and accumulated obligations, how will they be able to cultivate and produce with zero revenues and the appreciations of getting on fire? I am afraid, Minister, that with your policy of indifference and inaction we are going towards a food crisis. But you must not underestimate the rural world, the rural world that has understood your choices, which does not believe that there will be any of you, a rural world that will soon respond to you dynamically. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u203	And we thank Mr. Kalamatiano. The New Democracy MP, Mr Xenophon Baraliakos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, before I begin my speech, I would like to wish our Minister, Mr Lebanon, and soon to have him with us in both the Ministry and the seat of the House and at work. Although I know that from where he works, it's better to be close. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food maintains the constant path of consistency that has been set toward the targeted resolution of the existing problems, while at the same time it comes to correcting the bad texts that stir our country's primary sector. In Pieria Prefecture, my prefecture, one of the most basic and stable pillars of the local economy is livestock farming. I personally have visited many livestock units and have spoken to dozens of farmers throughout my parliamentary term for the problems they are concerned with and how we can create those conditions that will maximise their production while reducing their costs and also how we will facilitate them both in terms of the bureaucratic processes that are entangled in an endless loop of obstacles and in terms of their business development. The bill relates primarily to our farmers but also to consumers and therefore comes to strengthen livestock entrepreneurship, competitiveness and the whole of the country's society and economy, as well as the proper functioning of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Our main aim is to adapt the legislative framework to the real needs that exist, and with the corrective amendments to Law 4056/2012 to solve once and for all the problems of many years in the livestock licensing process, while at the same time combating bureaucratic obstacles. The draft law introduces arrangements to strengthen the legalisation process based on the rough accommodation of animals described in Article 3(2), which constitute about 55% of all livestock establishments in our country. Those who know the problems of farmers are aware of the importance of those who are legislating and who come to treat pathogens of years, which create stumbling blocks and the most basic parameters of livestock activity. I would particularly like to thank, at this point, the Ministry's leadership for our cooperation in finding solutions and other more specific problems, such as the licensing and electrification of fixed livestock establishments, which we are discussing at this time with regard to Pierre's farmers. The objectives that we are coming to achieve with this draft law are firstly to ensure in the short term that there are an effective, secure, flexible and modern framework for livestock establishments and to put on record problems which have arisen over the years since the application of the existing provisions. In the long term, we are seeking the sustainability and modernisation of livestock facilities, through the establishment of procedures, since the state targeted will supervise, at the same time encouraging healthy entrepreneurship in the livestock sector. Furthermore, it will be important to improve the operation and speed of handling control and compensation procedures by the ELGA, which will be accelerated over time by this draft law. It is no coincidence, after all, that during the debate on the draft law in the committee the majority of the producing bodies involved, namely the eighteen of them, agreed and welcomed the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development for the initiative and the content of the bill. Parallel evidence of the essential value of the present regulatory framework, which comes to give solutions to the basis of the problems, fully responding to the current reality. Ladies and gentlemen, according to ELSTAT, Greece in the meat sector has over time a negative trade balance of imports and exports of several million euros. We must therefore immediately establish policies leading to the strengthening of the domestic production of meat of all categories and to the balance of trade. As we succeeded in the agricultural product balance, after decades, which 2020 was surplus for the first time since 1984, so in the long term we need to achieve a corresponding result to the commercial balance of livestock products. We must support and support the Greek farmer, who is fighting three hundred and sixty-five days a year, in heats, in ices, without knowing holidays and holidays, giving him all the necessary supplies to get winners out in this area together. The Government of New Democracy, which has always proved to be next to the Greek farmers, has taken drastic measures for the Greekisation of agricultural products by increasing controls and fines, a pre-election commitment by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who is being implemented and we are fighting a real scourge for Greek farmers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Undersecretary, there is no doubt that the measures are in the right direction and along with the measures for the permanent submission of feedingstuffs at the excessively reduced rate of VAT of 6% on feed, the reduction of tax rates - secondly, Mr President - the reduction of VAT, the abolition of trade tax, but also the latest announcement by the Prime Minister of returning the excise duty on oil to the people in the primary sector constantly shows the will for substantial support in our primary sector. In conclusion, I should like to focus on the clear and unambiguous contribution of the ministerial amendment contained in this draft law, which provides for an extension of applications for the transfer of land workers until 31 December 2021, for a stay of between thirty and fifty days and an extension of ninety other days. Ladies and gentlemen, constant care is needed in order to modernise structures and production methods and to maximise Greek livestock farming. We owe it to people who fight every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u205	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u206	We owe it to our fathers and grandparents, who, as farmers, grew up, studied and brought us where we are today. Above all, we owe it to all young people, to whom we want to provide opportunities for work, prosperity and business development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, too. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Socrates Famelos. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, I will begin by expressing my support for both the Minister and, unfortunately, for having messages from other Members with low symptoms, in any case, passing around the world. Today our numbers were shocked. Seventy-eight dead, six hundred twenty-eight-eight-eight-eight-eighted. A tragic development for our society and with numbers which unfortunately lead us to a negative lead in Europe. Mr. Secretary, representing the government here, I have to tell you that you have a serious responsibility for the negative development of the health crisis. The government, it seems from Europe's statistics, is not doing the best we can and all we can even now agree on is that our country needs to be declared in an emergency for health and life. At the same time, I have to say that we are combining our voices with feminineity, with women all over the world. Today is the day to eliminate violence against women and the position of SYRIZA, as you know, is the legal recognition of genocide as a crime linked to the gender of women. I must say that today's draft law on livestock facilities, as our rapporteur has very well presented several times in committee and in plenary, is characterised by a lack of legislation and does not solve problems for farmers. It can be veiled, it may be delayed, but it produces a greater problem for Greek livestock farming. I must say that it has given us a special impression and we expect the Bureau and the Minister to answer us how to legislate on the amendment. The amendment is not partially withdrawn. It is incomprehensible that you should withdraw some of the amendments and not say the truth in the world, that you have brought an amendment which has created a serious problem, complaints from the Geographical Chamber we are learning and withdrawing it from the government. You bring her night, you get her. While, on the other hand, the primary sector is waiting for answers, both farmers and farmers. There's a sharp crisis of accuracy. It affects the operating costs of livestock units, the costs of farmers and you do not give any answers. The evidence presented by Alexis Tsipras here in the House last Monday was shocking. A farmer in his saint came to pay 673 more electricity. Farmer in Larissa came an account to pay more than 1,556 euros after discounts, subsidies, because it was 2.410 the cost. Farmer in Crete came a charge of 2,713 and the final cost was 1,762 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, there is a clear problem here. The government will carry this cost to all consumers, to all agricultural products, from water to bread, and you will remain unowned. You can neither understand the problem nor solve it. This is seen at all levels of policy, both in the primary sector and in rural development, but overall in economic and social issues. The bill also has another big issue of carelessness. The Ministry of the Environment and Energy is absent. We hear a lot of talk. The Prime Minister comes out, says he's a "green" Prime Minister, he goes to the UN, he makes great proclamations. But the point is that other words are said by Mr Mitsotakis in Parliament and internationally by the government. This bill tries to convince farmers that the environment is an obstacle to livestock farming. That is what he says to them: we will cancel environmental regulations, because it is at your expense. It's not the truth. The environment is an obstacle to the government. In a right-wing policy, yes, the environmental barrier. Because for the New Democracy and its rugs, or to cover up, yes, the environment and European institutions are a problem. And that's because the New Democracy can't even do its job. He doesn't even have the adequacy, and if you want it to be unscientific, the way to conduct politics. We have told them about a lot of big issues that are worried about us and no response has been given. I have said this on several occasions, and I and Mrs Tyrigoridou and all of us have heard no response. Here, then, there are issues beyond the fact that - to tell the truth - you brought in a bill that changes your own bill that you brought a year ago and said the problems were solved. But let's see some real questions that we asked. You ask and propose to repeal Article 6, the specific ecological assessment for livestock establishments in the NATURA regions. And we say we need to find a tool to help farmers. We are telling you that, beware of why, in Directive 92/43, we have a directive on habitats for which we have been convicted - it came in December 2020 if we are not mistaken for our country's conviction - there is a proper assessment and we are telling you: What do you or the Ministry of the Environment propose to replace the proper assessment to solve problems with farmers? Because we are from the point of view of the need to solve the problems. Because you're the only ones who make it up. So here, you're not answering. And by abolishing the management bodies of protected areas, the problem is getting bigger because we do not have a local body to help farmers. So you come here and you say in practice that you do not guarantee farmers that they will not have any more problems, because you have no such procedure and you will end up confusing both the country and the livestock activity. You are also canceling the participation of farmers in the administrative boards of operators because you are abolishing local administrations. They're twice as lost, that's, the cattle farmers. In Article 10, we say that we agree that there is a short timetable for forestry services, that we give an opinion to the area where there is a forest map. And we told you less than two months if you have to. We ask, however, why have you canceled the forest maps and this regulation is inapplicable? You're not answering. We ask you: How can farmers and farmers object to the forest maps if they do not know what the forest map is, since you have posted it, but say that it is not true, and since you have not incorporated neither the administrative acts, nor even our legislation - Mr Santorinios knows about the island regions? You admitted that it was wrong and Mr Mitsotakis came and said "we're picking them up". What can farmers believe anymore? We want to have less time. And now you come here and say that we'll do this from the forest services you announced they're going to the Ministry of the Environment, but with a Circular of the General Accountancy, they're staying in decentralized, because you just haven't made the ministerial transfer decision. No recruitment, no forest service, no forest maps! Another mockery for farmers. And the last thing we asked you about was the provision of Article 11. You are falsely presenting it to farmers that it is arbitrary to settle them. It's not! You throw the ball back a year so you don't tell them you can't solve the problem, because that's what you're doing. Why can't you solve the problem? Just because Mr Hatzidakis has abolished category 5 of the arbitrary crashes that he stops and solves the problem and actually leads to the demolition of the arbitrary, and we say very simply that the stack facilities are in category 5 and you need to see what you are going to do. You don't do it and you say an extension. Yeah, but what's the solution? This is an extension which, after a year, will make more problems, rather than giving a solution to category 5 and obviously rather than serving the building stations so that people can build up. You don't tell them that you'll be given a building license, no. You're making fun of them. You say: 'After a year and a year we see'. However, these are problems in livestock farming, they are not a problem. And you also did not answer us: The arrangement violates the S.H.E.'s decision. for 2011; We are asking because we want to solve this problem and have livestock and manipulate facilities that are compatible with the ecosystem and animal husbandry and designation of origin in the products that would be available if we had bodies in the NATURA 2000 areas, which you are now abolishing. So you've been creating multiple problems and one more that you've been creating is that for two and a half years you can't make contracts with regions for grazing plans. You got specifications, there were budgets and you don't go any further. And what are you talking about with this amendment? And this is the first, if you like, assumption of defeat. You say that these plans will be implemented with the next government. If I'm not mistaken at 31-12-2023, isn't it, Mrs. Tyloridou? So you won't do it. It's one of the first samples of departure from the policy pursued. The ball in the platform to the next government, because very simply you are neither useless... nor excellent...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u209	Finish it, Mr. Femmel. Last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u210	You saw, at the very edge of the speech, I said 'usable', because at the end of the day this should probably be added to the word excellent. But here, Mr President, we must say that we as SYRIZA and as a group - because they have tried to tell the committees that we did not function as a group - have given you proposals to improve the problems of farmers. From the first day of the day, Mrs. Tyloridou and having pre-service to the Ministry, having handed over a draft law to you, she told you what to use. But you have not done all of this, and unfortunately you will now be exposed to both farmers and the society of our country. Another blow by the Mitsotakis government in the primary sector. Try to solve a problem and do not cause any more problems. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr. Femello. It is now up to the Member of the New Republic to speak, Mr. Zesi Jekalaya.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I note just two hours ago in a committee and in the last few days SYRIZA MPs and officials, regardless of what we are talking about trying to make fun of the pandemic. There is no doubt that we are living a health tragedy on planet, Europe and Greece. When dozens of human lives are lost every day, there is no doubt that we are sad, but who can question that this government has done so many things that have taken credit from all over the European Community, from the European Statistical Authority, from the Greek Statistical Authority? These things can't be said all the time simply. After all, as Members of Parliament who are there, we are moving to society and we are among our fellow citizens, collecting every day and transporting it, and I think most of them live it, and I think that the citizens say: "Fortunately in the rule of the country is the New Democracy. They say if SYRIZA were in government. What would have happened at the place?" So I come to the bill. It is a very important bill what we are voting on today. It concerns the primary sector and, above all, the livestock farming that we consider to be a major pillar of our national economy. It's a bill that's extremely reformative. His main task is to make a marriage of what we knew, of traditional stockfarming with entrepreneurship. Its aim is mainly to combat the bureaucratic tangles we had for so many years, the 2012 law that discouraged young and active farmers from the legalisation of existing establishments, from the establishment and operation of new establishments. We have taken very important measures in favour of the farmer and the farmer, such as the very significant reduction in VAT on feed from 13% to 6%. We know it's accurate, but it's an important reinforcement. The main one: we have announced and applied since the new year the refund of the excise duty on oil for young farmers and for cooperatives for other farmers. More important than what the bill provides for, and I would like to stress in my report, is that the livestock facilities in our country are unfortunately 50% to 60% of them. We want this law to facilitate licensing, in particular, for these facilities and accommodations consisting of a panel of polyurethane or concrete that we have done and we know that they contribute to insulation, hygiene and what we call animal welfare and it is of great importance. The workers' warehouses and accommodation areas are excluded from the measurement of distances. We reduce to 25% distances for farmers and farmers the livestock. These distances are also reduced in terms of slaughterhouses, and we predict that in livestock establishments they can legally make slaughterhouses so as to reduce production costs. We are intervening with what was afflicting our farmers and not making legitimisation in the architectural designs that we are making simpler, so that we can go through with scaffolding so that we can have a significant reduction in costs. We are stimulating the integration of production, that is to say, that our farmers can easily process products. For the first time, we have been practicing the possibility of biogas producing from their waste. Particular attention is paid, of course, to the remote areas, and we regard such facilities as 10 km from the border, where the minimum distance from the reference points, such as roads, lakes and villages, is reduced. We say a great 'no' to the obligation to make a building permit for the clipboard accommodation. We say a great 'no' to the obligation to submit a specific ecological assessment, which, together with the decision of the regional director, until he came out, was clearing up for the NATURA 2000 areas. To amend permits in or near residential areas we simplify the procedures, extend them until 31-12-2022. They can do some simple things, such as milking, but not by increasing the number of animals or the composition of their unit. We allow interventions in public vegetarian and rocky areas. For the first time, however, the Forestry is obliged to give an answer within sixty days, of course, to areas where there are valid forestry maps. We suspend demolition for a year, reduce the fine and encourage the world in general to come to legalise its facilities. For any infringements that took place after 28-7-2011, we reduce the fine to 5% by 20%, which will contribute to better mapping and spatial planning. The institutions for administrative sanctions, i.e. infringements concerning plant protection products, residues of plant protection products and other agricultural medicines, are being restructured. We are prolonging for two years until 31/12-2023 the approval of the management plans of grazing land. We extend up to 31-12-2021 the possibility for ELGA to pay 40% of the allowances. We know very well how our Government, the Ministry of Rural Development, ELGA, made sure our farmers got 40% of the advances. It was foreseen until the end of the twelfth and at the end of the twelfth and will be paid for these allowances and the full amounts will be paid, and up to 31-1-2022 will be extended to cover claims of damage, financial assistance, advances and repayments. All this for the spring glacier in 2021. Finally, we are renewing the mandate of the President of the ELGA, the Agency and the President who have done so well in these two years and are very close, as they have shown, to farmers. For all these reasons, we are voting responsibly and enthusiasticly on this bill that we are debating today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u213	We are also grateful for Mr Gikalaya's consistency of time. And I call for the SYRIZA MEP at the Step - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Theodora Jacki for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the livestock sector is one of the most important sectors in our rural economy. This is a sector with an important contribution to the conservation of ecosystems, with a central role, I would say, to ensuring food security. The primary livestock production is active around fifteen thousand units and forms the basis for developing a significant number of enterprises around it, such as dairy industries, cheese shops, slaughterhouses, meat industry up to retail outlets, transport companies, the production of veterinary medicinal products, and the processing of feedingstuffs. It is all these businesses that make up the value chain around livestock. For Greece in particular, the sheep and goat sector is very important because it is exploiting mountainous and disadvantaged areas, where it is generally the main producer, as well as high added-value products. However, what remains is its low participation in the economic indicators of the country. The industry has not exceeded its structural weaknesses in order to exhaust its dynamics and substantially contribute to the growth of agricultural Gross National Product. Even today we are talking about six billion a year about imports of livestock products account for about a third of imports, i.e. about EUR 2 billion of products. Despite the efforts of the Ministry to present a well-prepared situation for livestock farming, we are itself touched on by the harsh reality experienced by farmers. Farmers are very disappointed today. Recently they protested in Athens. They are trying to see institutional factors and to convey the demands that afflict the industry. Their demands are too much. First of all, it is the high cost of feed, the transparency in the allocation of the national reserve of single payment rights, the refund of excise duty on oil, the reduced agricultural electricity tariff, is their essential involvement in decision-making. Despite the fact that, in bills such as those we are discussing today, consultation always takes precedence over them, it is often a pretext because their demands are not heard. The recent joint ministerial decision of September to redefinite the units of large animals leads to a loss of subsidies for actual livestock holdings, while favouring the granting of part of the national reserve to people unrelated to production. By retrospectively applying this decision, several farmers are faced with the risk of non-activation of rights and are therefore subject to a loss or a large reduction in the aid amounts to be paid as a result of the reduction of the eligible areas due precisely to the reduction of the existing units of large animals. All the above are requests directly linked to their survival. If we really want to support and develop this sector, there should be broad cooperation and serious consultation leading to a holistic legislative approach. With interventions of this kind, such as today in this bill, problems are not solved. The simplification of the procedure for the establishment and operation of livestock establishments was attempted by the Government of New Democracy sixteen months ago by Law 4711/2020, which did not, however, lead to the intended simplification. You are bringing this bill today, which is still a fragmentary attempt to correct Law 4711/2020, which will also not lead anywhere, because it is approaching the industry occasionally and occasionally. It is not easy to use heavier and more permanent materials for clipper accommodation for which no authorisation is required. On the other hand, there is serious safety risks for both farmers and workers in these establishments, while at the same time there is a significant increase in the environmental footprint. Imagine when such facilities will later be abandoned. Do they agree with the climate law that your government wants to bring? Now, next to a farm unit, it could be a slaughterhouse. You do not understand the serious risk that will arise for public health, for animal health and for animal welfare, but also for the considerable environmental burden on large loads of waste and waste water collected in an area. There is no provision for promoting livestock parks as a form, I would say, of voluntary cooperation with potential multiple benefits for farmers themselves, the environment, products and markets and consumers. The livestock parks are an innovative idea with many advantages that can really change the naturality of ovine and caprine animals in the country. Even the reduction of fines for arbitrary livestock establishments from 20% to 5% applies to those built after 28-7-2011 and there is no reason exactly what will happen with the plant before this period. It is not easy for farmers with a small turnover, that is to say, small farmers, who are also the vast majority of farmers in the country, as they will, in substance, follow the current authorisation regime under Law 4056. To conclude, what we will see in practice is that any attempt to simplify it will find an obstacle and, in fact, insurmountable, unregulated forest maps that have been frozen under the responsibility of your Government, which will be at the expense of the citizens, the development of rural areas and the forest ecosystem and the problems with forest services will continue to exist. And, of course, here is the opportunity to regulate some other issues that did not come as you expected. But what do you do? You are still giving an extension of the time limit for the preparation, submission and approval of the management plans for pastures. The new deadline is now set at 31-12-2023 without any explanation. Continuous extensions are being given for a project aimed at ensuring the rational use and sustainable management of pastures, which will finally lay the necessary solid bases for the productive reconstruction of the extensive and moving livestock sector across the country. In practice, it turns out that the signature, just one year ago, 31 December 2020, of the programming contract for the implementation of the managing grazing plans in western Macedonia was not the bright example and the pilot you want for other regions of the country. I shall now mention, Mr President, the extension of the deadline for reporting the findings of the damage from last spring's frost. And Pella may have started notifications of ELGA's findings in almost 100% of the municipalities, where the findings on cherries have already been notified and about 70% with 80% with 80% of the declarations on plums and 50% of the declarations on peaches and a payment is already scheduled for 3 December and a second one before Christmas, but I would like to inform you that the vast majority of Pella's farmers are protesting and talking about injustice in the findings, both in kg and in percentages. In particular, despite the assurances of the local parliamentarians, the damages to the late kerassiou varieties in the area of the former Municipality of Begogitis, as well as in areas of the Municipality of Edessa and the Municipality of Almopia, and in general the issue of compensation for the late kerassiou varieties, are in the air and are guided to historical calenda. The Minister who has repeatedly promised that damages will be compensated both quickly and with justice and efficiency. The results, as they come today, are disgusting to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that this bill could take even one step forward in order to reverse the negative situation characterised by Greek livestock farming today. The alarm bell has been marked. The official figures speak of a 30% fall in milk production and a corresponding fall in the available livestock. In the common admission of all those involved in the livestock sector who decide to leave it, they create a gap that is difficult to cover, since no young people enter the sector, we must realise that the livestock sector needs a holistic and more effective legislative approach, which is not attempted by the bill we are discussing today. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Jackie. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Fotinis Arabatzis, and immediately thereafter SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Nektarios Santorinios. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking here today at the National Representation, in one day, about showing zero tolerance to violence and, above all, violence against women. Yesterday there was a special agenda for protecting children from sexual harassment and abuse. Beyond the statements of solidarity with the people of violence, women and children, every one who suffers it, our victims of violence, our debt as members of the national Parliament is to take those legislative initiatives and that of legal protection in order to break the silence, but also to send those who deserve it. The recent tightening of the Criminal Code, brought by the New Democracy Government on criminalization in the charge of felonies, both rapes and all cases of sexual harassment, by Me Too, proves that we are not staying in the words but that we are moving forward in the act and that there is a lot of work ahead of us. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been following the speeches of the SYRIZA Members - a Progressive Alliance I have been asking myself this morning: When a bill meets this registered acceptance and satisfaction, not from us, the Government and the Members of the Complex, who will obviously say that they stand up for themselves, but from the institutions, from the organized institutions of Greek agriculture, from Greek livestock farming, I really find it hard to understand that you, in SYRIZA, are trying with nails and teeth and with internal contradictions - I will then become concrete about the contradictions - to dismantle and oppose it. The "revolution" bill spoke of a man who is familiar with livestock farming, and that I think that we should just comment on it. It is no other than the District Director of Epirus, Mr. Kachimanis, who said at the hearing of the bodies that the bill gives farmers the right to be farmers and not to need anyone. It takes more steps. All this is not only positive, Mr Kahrimanis said, it is positive. "This bill and bureaucracy reduces and solves a number of issues for farmers," said Dimitris Jiarstas, chairman of the Committee on Rural Development of the CEDEFOP. "The bill is in the right direction, we agree in almost everything," said the President of the Pan-Hellenic Association, Mr Kyrcios. Mr Vlahakis, the President of the Association of Egg producers said: "I am pleased that the bill goes ahead and is in the right direction after the great work done by the Ministry" etc., with personal references. Mr Dimitris Moschos, a member of the Board of Directors of the TEK, said: "I think this is the first time that matters have really been raised about livestock farming and how we - that is, farmers - experience the situation. The bill moves in a positive direction and solves serious problems." These, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and you, Mrs former Deputy Secretary of State for Rural Development, responsible for the livestock portfolio - where Mr Kedicoglou is today, have I been before Mr Kedicoglou - do you hear them? Did you hear this from the agencies? Mrs. Jackie said there was a preliminary consultation. Did you see how many comments the consultation has? What is the preliminary consultation? Where was the committee, a working group that really worked rather than the committee and the bill that you were supposed to have? Can you give us this bill, Mrs. Florido? Here to testify to it in the Minutes. You said you had a bill ready. Where was that bill and we didn't see it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u217	Finding a job...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u218	We're at the National Representation. I understand the difficulty of opposition poverty. I understand that, but we also need a political graciousness and a great deal of gratitude to some things. What bill did you give us and we didn't go through with it? It was compliance with the Memorandum of Understanding of the Ministry of Development's Law on the licensing procedures of all installations, which also concerned the Ministry of Rural Development and all ministries. You set up this committee, Mrs. Telliyoridou, not to mention the committee's findings, the front and back that finally ended up. And what does the fantasy have to do with the angerist people say about the retsindo? I ask you, do you take note of what the agencies say? You're supposed to be in the interest of the people of primary production. We have, of course, seen it in four and a half years how you did it. Mrs. Tylorid, we spoke earlier of political magnanimity and bravery. The New Democracy, in the stone years of SYRIZA governance, whenever a positive arrangement came, voted in favour of positive arrangements. He didn't show party blindfolds, as you do today. Finally, I heard you say to the committee - it is written in its minutes - that you find the provisions positive. If you find them positive, why don't you vote at first? You say 'at first, we agree to simplify the procedure, we agree to reduce production costs, we agree to strengthen farmers in remote regions, but, in any case, we disagree on the articles in them', since you are supposed to defend, I repeat, the interests of farmers. Mr. Dekolis, rapporteur of the Officerate, the chairman of the Union of Movers for the stockfarmers asked the committee at the hearing of the bodies below. 'Please be voted on by all of you.' I'm not saying it, Mr. Deeklis said it. Why am I listening to Mr. Femello and wondering, about the same bill we're talking about? Mr President, because I see the clock at twelve minutes, I will take all my time and my dentistry. We must finally make things clear. It is certainly a political duplication and an internal contradiction, and I am explaining why, either you do not understand or do not understand. SYRIZA's rapporteur comes in and tells the committees on several occasions that in reality no facilitation or simplification is possible for farmers, because farmers have to submit the same documentation to the administrative control of approval. In fact, the same documents. What supporting documents to explain? That they have the identification of the property, that they have the uses of land, that they have the approval of environmental impacts, that I am passing away to the clipboard category B accommodations and under B is identified in the zootechnical study and on the other hand, since on the one hand the documentation is shaking you, you do not want them, you want simplification, that is to go and without justification to obtain approval, not notification of operation, but approval. At one moment you say that you do not give any supporting documents and that you are speaking about this controversial wording of the use of concrete and you are actually criticising it, because we are removing from the farmers the obligation to produce a building permit from farmers. Yes, sir. The contradiction of your so-called environmental sensitivities continue when you say that workers’ storage areas and housing areas should not be excluded from measuring distances. Now I really want you to decide and make it clear. The clipboard accommodation, to say it here, is not twigs or I don't know how you imagine them. They're livestock structures with a low environmental footprint. Since, therefore, the stables of these structures have a low environmental footprint, much lower environmental footprint is the storage areas of these stables and the housing and assistance areas of the workforce. That is why we exempt them from the requirement of building permits and allow them to operate by means of notification, but with the necessary administrative control at the time of establishment, which, as I said before, you want to get him out to be simplified. Secondly, you talk and talk not about concrete again, but about the polyurethane panel. I don't know what you can imagine about the clipboard accommodation. That there's nothing skyscrapers, that the cattle farmers are going to build any unconscious walls that cost them, am I admiring myself here? The concrete, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, put it in the passageways there to take their feed, for example, to cow farmers from the beginning of their exploitation in the barn so that they don't jump into the mud. The concrete will be thrown down to the storage areas to put their stalks and corns, that is, feedstuffs. This will be the use of concrete individually, absolutely versatile for accompanying projects to facilitate farmers. You want to talk about facilitating farmers and, as you say, small farmers, but at the same time, in Article 4, in the case where you want to measure the minimum distances to measure from the rhetoric plan and the existing facilities. It is this mechanism to which I have referred before, because what you say, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that is to say, for the existing facilities to be in place, means, in practice, that you are putting many livestock establishments out of legality. Why is this done with your reasoning? Because it is very simple to plan more extensively, that is to say, more extensive than the settlements, so it will obviously exclude other livestock facilities and put them in settlements by reducing distances. You say and say again in the obsolete invoking the so-called ideological protection you provide to young people that the bill is not about small farmers. I have heard it, too, from Mrs Jackson to repeat it, but also from other SYRIZA Members. I want you to tell me where this is coming from, namely, that it is not about small farmers. You can tell us the provision that does not concern small farmers. You must show it to us, 'this provision'. You were a State Secretary, Mrs. Tyloridou, in charge of livestock farming. In no case was the authorisation of the clipboard accommodation made the turnover of the holding, the turnover of the holding. It was either on the basis of the type of construction, a) rough accommodation, standard constructions, MDGs - said Mr. Vlahakis in committee - c) buildings based on Law 4056/2012 and now made on the basis of capacity, i.e. the number of livestock, the number of animals, so the environmental footprint, according to Law 4711/2020, on which you were supposed to make this working group and the bill that is only in words. I repeat: the bill deals mostly with the rough accommodation of more than 67% of all livestock establishments in the country that exceed, according to the integrated veterinary information system, the hundreds of twenty-eight thousand facilities throughout the country. I would remind you of the presenters in Jerusalem that your former Minister Evangelos Apostolos said features that the country's rough accommodations account for over 90% of the country's stable facilities. That is what we are coming today, and we are simplifying and making it easier - and we think - to what extent is it the majority, the small, the many, as you have said so many times during your interventions? The Minister said so, and I think Mr Kedicoglou also said that out of the hundred and twenty-eight thousand livestock facilities only sixteen thousand sixty-five are licensed, nine thousand fives and ten thousand of them are handmade accommodations, whichever side you can see, with whatever numbers you can see, they are directly and without doubt the vast majority of livestock facilities. Of course, the rough enclosures contribute to the welfare of animals and to the improvement of animal performance, because with these polyurethane panels, which you have been lying about, the animals are protected in the summer from the heater in winter from the rain and cold, thus improving animal welfare and animal performance and the increase in productivity, which you are fighting for. You also said to a government that works and not a reason to strengthen as much as any collective patterns, collective patterns and collectives as to the allegedly - says - paragraph 10 of Article 4 of this bill excludes - we have heard this - from the verticalisation, from the processing of owners, producer groups, collectives and cooperatives. I want you to show us where it comes from, and this provision that comes from here and which you support with courage, I will say. Article 3, definition. ‘Consumer of the livestock establishment may be a natural or legal person in whose name authorisations for livestock establishment have been issued’. A natural or legal person. If, therefore, natural or legal persons - where legal persons from producer groups, collectives, associations of producer groups, cooperatives, whatever makes your mind - are able to process within the same establishment or property. The law is clear, Mrs. Tyloridou. Clear. Where do you find collective patterns excluded? Where do you find that small and medium-sized are supposed to be excluded, and I don't know who else? I would like to say a few words about Mr Famelou's crescendo and yesterday in the committee and, of course, today in plenary. He said yesterday that we are a Turklou government and we have done it with the livestock facilities and that we are supposedly too late to use your own government's treatments. Now, what we made use of your own government and the things we did, we talked about them beforehand, as well as what a committee you and we did, compulsory Memorandum of Understanding, a self-advised legislative initiative to regulate and facilitate wind facilities, we in this bill. Besides, this government has two and a half years and has much more bills than what you have presented as the Ministry of Rural Development in the four and a half years of your governance. Mr Famelos, of course, said a lot more that, by removing the specific ecological assessment from the accommodations below B, we are opposed, he says, to the Community directive, that we are involving farmers in adventures and other very irresponsible ones. Well, nowhere in the Community directive provides for the requirement for accommodations below B, that is to say, a low environmental footprint for the special ecological report in the NATURA areas. It's nowhere to be predicted. So this law comes and removes this ambiguity and says that the incorrect reference to 4711/2020 is dropped to restore legality and, of course, to the benefit of farmers. Now, for forest maps, there's really plenty of nerve. One hundred and seventy thousand disputes we inherited from SYRIZA - ANEL's "government" about the forest legislation that you so boldly had, which you are so progressively and is not assembled. Charming the so-called courageous ones, you left a hundred and seventy thousand calls for questioning, which if they went at your own pace would take about fifteen years, with rough calculations, for them to be examined, that is, "lived May, to eat a loaf". On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - and unfortunately for you, of course, for the world of the country - the Ministry of the Environment's Law No.46852020 entered order and the procedure for examining disputes has been speeded up - this is the case, Mr Santorinier - the issue of settlements has been resolved and, of course, Article 48 of Law No.46852020 has been passed on to the Ministry of the Environment on forest maps. It was this regulation of Article 48 that came and gave back the lost subsidies to thousands of farmers in the country, which you had been baptized as so-called forests, the legally cultivated agricultural land, and you and your 'government' have deprived them of the legitimate subsidies. So there is more courage here for Mr Famelos to move the finger, talking about forest maps, talking about the deficit of this government, when this government, the Ministry of the Environment, has said that in the first half of 2020 the country will have forest maps. And of course, the correctness of Law 4685-2020 is not me who may also be a representative of the Coupling. The Council of State itself, with two decisions, 1364 and 1365 of the 2021 Plenary Assembly, was quite right. As for the hints Mr Famelos has left, such as the absence of the Ministry of the Environment, the Minister for the Environment has signed...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u219	Complete, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u220	I have twenty minutes, Mr President, I think. Eighteen and six and three. With your tolerance. She has the consent of so much of the technical project management...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u221	It is an introduction that has been done, but should not always be the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u222	All right, Mr. President, with your tolerance I will close. Both by the Department of Technical Works and Rural Infrastructure of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Environment has this bill. I said in my position in committee, and I repeat it now, the bill except for obvious simplification, acceleration and facilitation of unjustified bureaucracy, reduces production costs. How does it reduce production costs? Because it reduces construction costs. I'm going to say a simple example. With the former regime and building permit requirements of a stacked facility, with type-columns - our farmers are listening, they understand - the construction costs were close to 400 euros per square. Today with the polyurethane panels the cost goes to 1/8, to 80-100 euros. Because that is the central philosophy of this government, the reduction of taxes, the reduction of insurance contributions, the strengthening of entrepreneurship. This is also our print in the agricultural sector, because we were, Mr. Taligoridou, who, in 22%, made it up to 45% for farmers and farmers and we did 9%. We were the ones who reduced insurance contributions, farmers did not pay a solidarity levy and a trade fee for the second year. We have implemented a series of measures to enhance entrepreneurship, rural entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship in general. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would like to make a special reference to the amendment made by the Ministry of Finance by a general number of 1142 and a special number of 38, in particular Article 1, on the demarcation of farms and the addition to the law of state aid. This is another favourable regulation for farmers affected by the climate crisis in our country. It is therefore possible, on the recommendation of the ELGA, to issue a joint Ministerial Decision of the Minister for the Interior, Economic and Rural Development and to demarcate as affected areas, those that have not been demarcated or could not be demarcated. This is an absolutely useful and absolutely necessary legislative initiative, which is coming to extend the umbrella of protection everywhere, with ambiguity on the basis of the criteria and only compensation for the affected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u223	Just hang up with this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u224	I thank Mr Triantopoulos for this amendment, which also applies in my constituency to Serres, from the floods of 4 January. I must say that it was unfair to attack the President of the ELGA who has not left a fraudulent place as he had to, from so many climate crises, speeding up procedures and current payments. Let SYRIZA speak of the ELGA that this government has come for the first time, after ten years and strengthened, energised the relevant Rule of the Rules of Procedure, giving 20% of the state budget to ELGA, a total budget of 210 for seven years, in order to deal with your own verandas and deficits, as well as the acute climate crisis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u225	Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u226	I'm closing, Mr. President. We're the government that, for the first time, gives advances, Mrs. Tyloridou. There is a difference between the advance on an overall estimate and the 60% that you have confused, and that on estimated expenditure. I would also like to welcome the initiative for the EUR 250 for the low-pension pensioners of the OGA and for people with disabilities who are given not with beastly surpluses, are given a pandemic status and an economy that has taken 42 billion to deal with the coronary pandemic. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u227	The speaker of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Santorinios, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. I do not know what anyone should have answered what the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative said in twenty-five minutes. It was an attack recital in SYRIZA. I won't follow her. All I will say to her is: you welcome the EUR 250 that will be given to pensioners who have a pension of up to EUR 450. From there on, it won't. We, Mrs Arabatzis, gave 780 million social dividends with a memorandum and not under conditions of non-financial adjustment. You give them 100 euros and you make fun of them. So stop mocking because you voted for the thirteenth pension when we brought it. You said you'd keep her and immediately after you abolished her. Stop mocking across and retired people, but mostly health workers. You haven't paid them the papers, and you're giving them crumbs. Pay them the papers. You said something about political persecution. That is only what I am going to talk about. Political trial, Mrs. Arabaji, do you know who it is? To vote against a bill and then come and codify the legislation and admit it's the only bill on island policy and ask us to vote on it. I am talking about the transport equivalent - Law 4554 - which you voted against, and then you asked us to vote on it by codification. That's a political dictionary. The day is particularly charged with two major anniversaries: It's the National Resistance Day. It's the day we honor those who fought against the conqueror. When some deals were made and agreed with the conqueror, when some were unjustified by this situation, the people resisted to defend freedom, democracy and homeland. We are honouring this people today and the example of these fighters must be kept today. We must not suppress the flag, we must not tolerate anyone who wants to insult our freedom, democracy and homeland. A second important day, of course, is the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, which is very timely. When today in our country, in 2021 we lament thirteen women - victims of racial violence, when the UN itself says that pandemic has worked as a multiplier of violence against women, it is imperative for all of us to fight to stop the crimes of racial violence. The government did some of the criminal codes, but unfortunately it did not accept the term 'female murder'. We continue to believe that this must be a condition, because it essentially defines the racial violence, the violence that women are being persecuted. I have heard from the Minister that he will not accept the amendments we tabled as SYRIZA to support seasonal workers in tourism and foodism. You know, these people in the last two years have actually not been able to do any bits. What the suspensions were taken - those who took EUR 534 - and unfortunately these people have worked too little. These are all at risk of not getting the unemployment benefit. You fooled them a month ago when you said they could take it with fifty badges. Yes, but there is one condition: Over the past few years they should have meanings. When? 2020? In 2020, no signals were written. We are tabling two amendments which, in essence, want to support what you have done, the fifty-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven. And we say: as far as the old people, namely those who received unemployment benefit, are concerned, the meaning of a job suspension being considered as a job signal so that people can get unemployment benefits. They'll be chasing you because when they go to the OAED and they'll be rejected by them, you'll have to answer why you fooled them. The same applies to workers who will receive unemployment benefits for the first time. We say that in some way these people should not need eighty-equals in 2020, eighty-equipped in 2019. We say fifty trademarks in 2020, fifty trade marks in 2019, and even again, as in the previous amendment, the trademarks of a job suspension. So simple. Do it, see it again. It's wrong what you're doing. You don't support workers. From there, at the same time, these workers were supposed to take some of the trademarks from the suspensions that would at least count in the insurance. These labels have not been shown in the ‘ERGAN’. Do you know what that means? That there are people today who want to do surgery, there are cancer patients who are currently uninsured on the ground. Do something for these workers. Do something. Stop mocking them! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll give me some more time, Mr. President. And I'm going to go to the holistic article, Minister. You are giving an extension to a regulation that we had, that is to say, that those who fish for wholesome fish without VMS by May 2021 in order to have a financial programme so that the appropriate systems can be put in place. What are these systems? They're control systems. Now it's an uncontrolled situation. And today you are prolonging this arrangement. What's the difference? That in the meantime VMS has been subsidized and some people went and got them, paid for today and at the same time checked for where they fish. So it's obvious that what you're doing is a big ruffet to those who don't want to comply with legality. It's a big ruffetti to those who want to do whatever they like and not pay anywhere. So you create two speeds: legal and whatever they like. So the arrangement you bring is not so good. And because you said too much - I am closing up with this, Mr President, and thank you very much - I want to table a table. I hear the Members of the New Democracy - and they are right - saying: pandemic is a global problem. Why are you blaming us in Greece that we haven't done it? This table is one of the ‘FINANCIAL TIMES’. Do you know what it looks like? The deaths per 100 thousand from May to today. Do you know where Greece is? I'll show you. Do you know where the European Union is? I'll show you. Unfortunately, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have made us champions and this is not in your honor. If you cannot manage the situation, you leave them to manage it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u229	The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mr. George Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing and to be voted on is an important issue for the livestock sector. But I would say that they are inadequate and fragmentary and includes minor changes in the existing institutional framework, which do not change the overall picture. It is about simplifying the authorisations, since today red tape is a well-known factor which is also affecting farmers. In this context, farmers with a small turnover, the majority of farmers in the country, are not facilitated by the regulations of the bill since there is still a great deal of bureaucracy. The problems in the forestry licensing system continue since the New Democracy Government has been undermining the work and operation of forest maps for two years. In addition, there are obstacles to grazing management plans. The relevant provisions should be balanced with the needs of protecting the NATURA regions and ensuring a sustainable rural economy operating livestock, as is the case in other countries. A problem also arises in the absence of care for the creation of livestock parks, since there is a relative need which is not regulated, for their demarcation either in public or in municipal areas, so that there is appropriate spaces and appropriate infrastructure in water, power, sewerage system and access roads to relieve farmers of bureaucratic and economic burdens on the authorisation of the legal operation of their establishments. A reasoned decision by the competent licensing authority, which increases the administrative burden, is not taken into account and is not regulated. However, the abolition of the minimum distance from slaughterhouses and the non-determination of minimum distances from the sources of the water supply horizon and the reservoirs of drinking water creates a risk to public health. With regard to rough accommodation, which accounts for more than 60% of livestock units, they continue to be regulated on the basis of a blurred institutional framework with regard, for example, to the area and the level of their construction. Other important problems of farmers are not regulated by this bill, such as the lack of urban plans in many municipalities, which creates two-speed farmers and major disparities, since those operating in municipalities that do not have town plans are not licensed. Now, for ELGA. Here too, there is a misunderstanding of the agricultural world, as we are talking about 100% compensation for the guaranteed value of production, but that is not the case. 40% of the advance, which even appears to be a panacea, is introduced when the advance on the SYRIZA government was 70% or 80%, and even under more difficult budgetary conditions. And not just that. Separate the categories affected and determine a different deposit rate per loss cause, geographical area and product Ladies and gentlemen, the agri-food sector, like the whole country, is faced with the economic crisis, which is partly due to the consequences of the pandemic, the constraints on the functioning of the people's markets and the focus, the reduction and deterioration of tourism, the revaluations and the resultant precision in current, oil, feed and farmland, which further increases the cost of production, but also the climate crisis with the extreme weather phenomena affecting rural infrastructure and agricultural production. However, in this crisis, the government, which has not made it possible to support primary production by means of concrete measures to cope with the difficulties of this juncture. The fact is that subsidies are being reduced. The last payment in the basic payment was reduced by EUR 63 million. Payments made by OPEKEPE are confusing both in terms of payment times and in terms of amounts and the allocation of the National Reserve. There are delays in the payment of compensation for natural disasters by ELGA, new barriers are put in place to the participation of producers in the popular markets and, of course, the phenomena of the illusion and Hellenisation of Greek agricultural and livestock products are continuing to affect the sector. The government seems to have lost contact with reality, as with other serious issues, such as pandemic and accuracy. After all, the rural world is experiencing and therefore knows that it is not based on the government with substantial measures. Ladies and gentlemen, we all support the primary sector as a pillar of the country's development perspective. The question is whether and how we support and strengthen it. And a remark about the fire-fighting areas. One of them is the area of the Arcadia Regional Unit. In particular, the regions of Gortinia and Megalopolis have been affected and, unfortunately, there has been no talk from the government about these affected areas, when a question has been submitted to the relevant Ministry, and a reply has been given which does not include evidence of how it - because it has not tackled the problem of fires in the region of Gortinia and Megalopolis. So I would say that Gorty - particularly that - the Netherlands, and Megalopolis have remained outside, so that the people who are engaged in the cultivation of olives, who are perhaps the only source of their income, and the rearing of sheep and goats and apiculture, may now have a huge problem of survival. Their income has been zeroed. At least these, insufficient, I would say, support measures for Evia are needed to extend beyond that, to Gortynia and Megalopolis. And one final comment. The way to deal with the destructive fires in areas such as the Arcadia Prefecture highlighted the inability and weaknesses of the Greek state under the Government of New Democracy, as well as the power of local communities, in this case Gortynia and Megalopolis. Locals and volunteers, in cooperation with firefighters and local government forces, demonstrated both abilities and soul power and solidarity. They saved homes and villages. And that is what I would say that they are signalling the future, as long as the state does its own duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, too. Mr George Karasmanis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, tell us how many follow. To know who they are.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u233	It's then Mr. Christos Gokas, Mrs. Notopoulou, who is waiting to speak via Webex, and Minister Stylus. And they will ask for some minutes - I would ask that they be very few - for a final comment by the rapporteurs and the special speakers. And don't complain about time. I don't want to read names. Since this morning, I've been looking at time playing from all sides, to be fair too. I now asked to see and see, but I can't read names. But I point out by all the groups. Mr. Karasmanis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on simplifying the procedures for stack facilities is obviously very important, since they provide solutions to a number of issues. In this respect, both our rapporteur and the ministers have mentioned in detail, so that I do not need to go into detail. That is why I will concentrate on the many inaccuracies which have been heard in relation to the management of pastures, fines, appeals to the European Court of Justice. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to give me some more time. These are issues that I handled as Minister. Although I have responded on several occasions, I believe it is necessary to refresh some selective memories. It is true that the Community's own government has been able to eliminate the Community's fines. We have done so with the action plan, the action plan, which we have produced and implemented literally in cooperation with the European Commission. Let me remind you that I myself, during my ministerial term in 2014, have repeatedly reported from this Step forward that we were fined by a billion euros for problems that were created from 2008 to 2012. This huge fine has been divided over three years. The first instalment of 350 million was retained in January 2014 and the rest were paid in two instalments in 2015 and 2016. Our hard, methodical work was to relieve farmers of this poorly-harmed chronic thorn, as well as our own government, in particular, the new Republic - PASOK, by Regulation 1307 of 2013, was the one that changed the definition and included the dense, toothy and woody areas in our national law on pastures, with the application of even the new CFP 2014-2020. This definition was the basis of the arguments of the Legal Council of State. So we took back the 466 million that the state budget had paid for the period 2008-2012, while our farmers had received their aid. The Omnibus Regulation of 2017 further provides clarification for Regulation 1307. I say this for clarification, so that the truth is not distorted. And that's not all. It was our government that ensured 150 million additional annually as a single payment for the period 2014-2020 for Greek farmers compared with the previous programming periods. It was also our government that provided additional 500 million for the compensatory compensation under Regulation 1378/23-12-2014. For the first time, we have also introduced related aid for milk and meat and fodder, with a view to reducing the costs for adequacy of feed. We received eleven million acres of pastures of pasture and delivered four and a half million acres and since then, arbitrary and undoubted, farmers of 1, 2 and 3 class were created. And I come to the object. Of course, our livestock farmers are experiencing acute problems, firstly at the moment, the explosive increase in feed costs, which has brought them into a bad financial situation, to the extent that many are thinking of abandoning their herds. It is a dramatic consequence of the unfavourable international circumstances, which the Ministry's leadership is aware of and even has the sensitivity to give a solution. I am sure that, in addition to the measures announced by the Prime Minister and within the framework of the financial possibilities, solutions will be launched for the immediate and effective support of farmers. With regard to Article 14 of the bill, which extends until December 2023 for the management plans for grazing, it is unacceptable that the resolution of No.4315/2015 has spent seven years and no temporary management plan has been issued in the country. But farmers have paid the grazing fee and we are going from an extension. So what I said before has emerged, namely that we have created three categories of farmers. This is a problem with the payment of Community aid and, of course, this problem will continue with the new CAP, with everything that this entails. However, I would like to say for information to my dear colleague and Minister Kedicoglou that n.4264 provided for the preparation of the management plans, some of them had expired in June 2015 and the final end of December 2015 and not in May, as he said, 2018, so for clarification. And I come to Article 16, which relates to the extension of the deadlines for the granting of allowances from the spring ices of 2021. Honestly, when some announcements were released that there is a legislative regulation that will resolve the damage not covered by the ELGA, a wave of optimism was created. Only this legislation is a copy of Article 209 of Law 4820, which we voted on in July. The only change is that the deadline for advance payments is extended from 31-10-2021 to 31-12-2021 and the repayment from 31-12-2021 to 31-1-2022, which raises questions, since we are a month before Christmas. Indeed, there is an ELGA document, which for the first time I bring to the public and I will submit it to the Minutes of the House, which was sent to me by ELGA, dated 28-9-2021, which refers to the damage. In fact, twenty-six thousand five hundred and twenty-four damage statements have been submitted, and the estimated work is completed, as the document says, in September and the findings will begin to be made and the compensation will be paid to the insurers. The findings have begun and are being sent. [[At this point Mr Georgios Karasmanis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It would be very petty if we did not recognise the enormous effort made by the Veria branch to carry out twenty-six thousand five hundred twenty-four declarations of damage. And I come to the provision of this article, provision 1a, which relates to the cutter. I had made a reservation that zero would be the benefit for producers related to the insured value at 100%, etc. In fact, I would remind you that, at the time of the Ministry's delivery in January 2015, the changes I proposed were the total abolition of the 80% cut, because it illegally entered the relevant 2011 regulation, as it is not provided for by Law 3877/2010. As regards paragraph I.1c on damages to the pre-anthic stage which are part of the ad hoc programme of State aid, the old PESA will be subject to approval by the European Commission. And I am really surprised that this time-consuming procedure of the NGOs has been chosen, without even knowing whether or not we will be able to obtain approval from the European Commission, or even if it has been investigated, the possibility of obtaining advances, which I have a reservation as to whether the Community regulation allows it. But there is a solution. It is Article 71 of Law 4235/2014, an amendment of mine, voted by all Parliament's wings, which could be implemented and given targeted solutions to the issue of payment of compensation for damages to the pre-anthic stage for trees. As there is another solution, Mr 4797/2021, which we voted on in April. And this law gives the possibility of advances with Article 11 and Article 12. It is absolutely necessary to compensate the producers of the pre-anthic stage, because it is a very important figure and the sum is around 30 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u235	But please, Mr Karasmani.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u236	I'm closing, Mr. President. Estimates have been made, ratings are available and the services are waiting for the mandate. Another problem, which I have been putting to a solution for a year and a half, is that all the loose ends with the temporary, final and the wrong statements on the frost of 17 March 2020 should finally be closed. It concerns producers, who, because of the first hard lockdown of the pandemic, either could not make temporary or final statements, or in the unprecedented chaos that prevailed other varieties declared in the temporary and other definite ones, people who have no familiarity with the Internet and today in despair are asking to see their problems. These people yell at us: "We have been destroyed, we are growers, with all declared to the OSCE, with our contributions paid, but in the quarantine, chaos, closed, with everything closed, we didn't even get hammered that we had to go down a handful of paper on a temporary declaration paper and you left us without compensation, without the slightest income to live our families, when the Prime Minister said that no Greek citizen would remain unprotected from the consequences of the pandemic."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u237	Close, Mr. Karasmani, because I'm going to take complaints.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u238	To these people, really, what do we answer? Are we going to give a solution or is this injustice going to continue? I believe that the Minister, Mr Lebanese, who will shortly return to his duties intact from his adventure, will give a solution. I close, once again by stressing that farmers who have been damaged by iceberg must be paid off until Christmas with the producers of the pre-anthic stage and those who have a debt of advances to pay for them. The Prime Minister has been very sensitive, he has given for the first time since 2010 retrospectively 20% owed by the state budget and thanks also to this is the first time that producers are paid in full rather than as in previous years with 70%, 20%, 10%. Finally, an answer to what he said...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u239	No answer, please warmly, the clock has reached twice the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u240	It is something that concerns matters that I handled as Minister, and that is why I asked you to give me some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u241	No, I can't. Please close, you've been in double time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u242	An answer to what Mr Apostleu said, who referred to the feta-symphony agreement with South Africa. Mr. Lebanese has given a documented answer. Mr. Apostle reminds me of the killer going back to the crime. We have tabled in 2016 forty-two Members, we have taken the responsibility of the government of the previous one and if Mr Apostle wants it, let him bring it to the committee responsible to get the answers. But to remind him of the proverb: “The wing was rubbing, evil of his head.” In addition, there are important amendments that have been tabled, both for the transfer of land workers and for the support of the units affected by the spring glacier in 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Karasmani, this is not the way to deal with it. You don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u244	I have finished, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u245	Mr Christos Gokas has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u246	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, previous legislation with Law 4056/2012 and Law 4711/2020 was intended to simplify, facilitate and legitimise livestock holdings and businesses, but also livestock farmers could make better use of the various Community and national programmes. However, it did not have the appropriate results, since only about 20%, mainly large units, joined them. In today's bill there are positive steps, which we recognize and of course we shall also vote at the beginning of the bill. But there are also omissions and ambiguities. I'm going to stand on a few points. I think it is a fundamental problem, which must eventually be solved, the issue of existing establishments and establishments, in conjunction with the particularities which we all know exist in the Greek countryside, but also the way in which traditional farming has traditionally been carried out, which is, in any case, slowly going towards the end of it, with older farmers, but also because of the deadlock created by the survival of their own people and their production units. There is no provision to support the construction of traditional plant of livestock with environmentally friendly materials. That is why we have proposed for small and medium-sized establishments with approved standards. The provisions before us do not seem to make it particularly easy for small farmers in terms of bureaucracy, as did Mr.4711. Small farmers, who are a large majority, will, in essence, follow the current authorisation regime under Law 4056, since at the time of establishment, the farmer is obliged to submit to the competent DRLs all the documents provided for by the current scheme, as is the case at the next stage of the establishment and operation of the establishment. Some of these documents, such as archaeology, forest services and so on, I would suggest that they should be sought through the services, by exempting the farmer from some of the bureaucracy. The bill also ignores the major problems in issuing a licence for establishments in communities that are characterized as mountainous, while, on the contrary, it offers solutions - and good - to islands. The clipboard accommodation - which accounts for over 60% of livestock units - cannot remain within a cloudy institutional framework, for example in terms of their area or the level of construction. There are certain conditions which are cumulative as far as the rough accommodation of animals is concerned. I think we should stick to the first two conditions, namely structural skeleton and the materials to which they refer. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the major problems in livestock farming and therefore in the whole of the agricultural world are elsewhere. The cost of production has been high for feed, medicines, fuels, electricity, farms, seeds, pesticides and fertilisers, making it impossible to sustain livestock and farms due to the very increased costs, as well as not satisfying the survival needs of farmers and producers. Any price increases, such as milk, but not all kinds and all livestock and agricultural products, since there is also the pandemic crisis that limits demand and consumption, is not enough to cover production costs either. We have tabled proposals for measures to limit the amount of energy, such as a reduction or a refund of excise duty, and our amendment and we call on you, even at the last minute, to accept it, we are proposing the introduction of a Agricultural Energy Card, which incorporates the quantities of oil, gas and electricity, by determining the amount of financial aid, on the basis of the IAC declarations and the provision for financial compensation due to the high cost of energy. There is also a need for a plan to deal with permanent and unjustified increases in electricity costs, which concerns all our fellow consumers, but especially for farmers, but also for a permanently reduced pricing and without a adjustment clause. It is also necessary to allow farmers, farmers, pumping stations, TWGs and GFCFs and, for each unit, to be able to install photovoltaics with a similar grant. But, Mr Ministers, there should be electrical networks. Many regions and our region - Mr Stylus knows that - Arta has had almost a saturated network for nearly a decade. In spite of the announcements for construction in 2020, the installation of a substation in Arachthos Kyti, like the previous government, of course, of SYRIZA, which has been absolutely nothing about this project for four and a half years, resulting in unequal competition for the productive enterprises of Arta, as well as the lack of the corresponding economic activity with the installation of PV units, as well as the parallel actions and activities to implement the projects, which support local development. As far as the primary sector is concerned, there is a general absence of aid within the framework of support measures from the pandemic, with the exception of some exceptions, small aids, as well as forecasts for funding from the various programmes, such as the Recovery Fund, the CAP, etc. It's disappointing. For example, the livestock sector. No farmer, as I know, from Arta, received any aid at all during this difficult period, nor did the processing companies have any special support, while some, such as the Farming Cooperative Artas, because of particular problems, had no assistance or facility so far. All sectors of the primary sector now have accumulated problems, farmers, farmers, beekeepers, fish farming etc. The issues must also be resolved definitively with the opaque distribution of the national reserve by the OPEKEPE and the Ministry to the detriment of actual producers, but also young farmers who lack the opportunity to find land to start their activities. There is also a risk that nine million six hundred thousand acres, other than new CAP, will remain at the expense of the beneficiary farmers and the rationalisation of the distribution system due to delays by the OPEKEPE and the Ministry. It is also negative to provide for an extension of the payment of allowances by the ELGA for spring frost in 2021 and grazing management plans. Continuous extensions and delays in the payment of compensation bring the rural world more desperately. You also have not defined in total the products and regions that eventually fall within this framework of indemnity. For Arta, where there is 80% with 100% of the nut on the olive and 40% to 50% of the citrus fruits from the spring glacier, there is no light on the horizon for compensation to these producers, while, respectively, no aid for the loss of income of the previous period has been granted or crustaceans, such as mandarins, oranges, olives, etc. The seriousness of the revision of the ELGA regulation remains, of course. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the country's rural world, farmers and farmers, producers and farmers are facing unreasonable problems, and the state seems not to be disgraceful about their great anxiety and desperation. Mr Ministers, we need immediate and effective measures to support the primary sector, which, otherwise, we all see as a key pillar for the country's productive and development reconstruction. Otherwise, we will have a continuation of the abandonment of livestock and agricultural production, which will adversely affect the overall effort to recover our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u247	And we thank Mr. Goka. We are completing the list of Members with Mrs Catherine Notopoulou. Mrs. Notopoulou, put the watch next door as you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly I am speaking only of the rejection of the two amendments tabled by SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, because it is a very crucial issue. Once these amendments have been rejected, the only thing the New Democracy Government has revealed is once again an extremely tough person toward the world of work. Indeed, the absence of justification for this rejection on the part of the Government and, of course, once again the deception by the Minister of Labour to appear and justify this decision bears witness to complete indifference. We're talking about the suffering of workers. We're talking about their own survival. What you have done today is a very clear choice, gentlemen of the government, to leave without income about two hundred thousand employees in tourism and foodism, to leave these people alone, faced with poverty, dishonesty, lack of income. We, with the two amendments that we have tabled, have tried to bring the solution before you, to give you once again the pressure and the opportunity to resolve the survival of tourism and food workers. It was a huge social injustice, which remains and, without justification. The government has serious responsibilities, exclusively due to the Ministry of Labour and the Government of New Democracy, because the meanings of the unilateral suspensions, 2020 and 2021 did not appear. Are you the government that urged workers in tourism and foodism to use the possibility of unilateral suspension and today what are you doing? You're punishing them. He became an employer, that is, the state, and today he is punishing them. It punishes them once again with rejecting the relevant amendment. And in order not to abuse the time, we really need to add over two hundred thousand and some ten thousand workers who, for the first time, seek to receive unemployment benefits. That was the second amendment we tabled. You are also punishing them by not accepting our proposal to reduce the pressures required to fifty, as has already happened after pressure from our own for the other seasonal workers. The loss of jobs, the loss of titles, is, in fact, a problem of survival. Do you really intend to continue to leave hundreds of thousands of families at mercy, not to have elementary income? You have not taken care of the employees in tourism and food professions, which will take the first time. It's really a tragic choice today. I will say nothing more than that this is your government's thanks to the people of tourism and food, who have set back to get you today for the revenues from tourism and you are condemning them to poverty. But you should know, gentlemen of the government, that, as you turn their backs on them, they will turn your back too. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u249	Thank you very much. Happy birthday to your celebration!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u250	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u251	And now the Deputy Minister, Mr. Stylus, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u252	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I will try and make sure I am within the time you give me, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has taken thirty-six years to make the agricultural trade balance of Greece again surplus. In 2020, with New Democracy in the rule of the country and Kyriakos Mitsotakis Prime Minister, the commercial balance of agricultural products was closed with a surplus of EUR 511 million, when for many years a deficit of between EUR 500 and 700 million has been permanently occurring. However, we must put an even greater emphasis on livestock farming and strengthen it as far as we can, as it is a sector that is firmly in deficit in terms of commercial balance, at levels of EUR 1 to 1,1 billion for many years, despite the little improvement it has had last year, with a deficit of around EUR 950 million. The trade balance for livestock derivatives, such as dairy products, which showed a marginal surplus of EUR 5 million last year, followed by many years of deficit. It is characteristic that in the first years of the last economic crisis in our country this sector, the dairy derivatives of livestock, had a deficit of between EUR 400 and 500 million. These are, therefore, two major sectors, livestock and dairy products, which appear to be defective, and one has 22% of imports and another 16%. These elements lead us to the conclusion - and I think it cannot be called into question by anyone - that for the benefit of the Greek economy, for the benefit of Greek farmers, the Greek producers, for the benefit of Greek taxpayers, we must put emphasis on our country's livestock production. Both our rapporteur and Minister Spelion Lebanese and the other State Secretary responsible for animal production, Simos Kedicoglou, have been very detailed in the articles of the bill. For example, I should like to say this: the procedure whereby the farmer and the operator of the other activity are to be reduced may be redefined by 25% reduction in distances between slaughterhouses and livestock establishments. Another very beneficial provision is that the operational area of the installation includes the buildings necessary for its operation, such as animal housing sites, waste management facilities. Workers' warehouses and housing buildings are now excluded from the operational area. In addition, arrangements are introduced for manual animal enclosures, which account for more than half of the livestock establishments, over 60% in our country. There have been extensive references to this provision and many Members of Parliament and our Minister and rapporteur. The acceleration, therefore, and simplification of the authorisation procedures will allow sustainability in a number of livestock establishments. And all right, that's fine. We will help and support our farmers by making use of digital technology and by establishing interoperable procedures, with which they will be able to draw the documents from different public registers. But there is something very important here. The legalisation of these units, these facilities, is important, because they can be financed and granted favourable arrangements provided for under the Rural Development Programme, but also benefit from the advantages of the new common agricultural policy. So we have reasons why we believe that this bill is very important, very substantial and will help our country's livestock farming. I move on to two provisions that we have tabled. One very important provision is the provision for land workers, where, at the initiative of the Minister, Mr. Lebanon, and in cooperation with the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr. Theodorikos, and the Minister for Migration and Asylum, Mr.Mitarakis, this provision, which was extended to the law passed in March 2021, derogating from the relevant provision of the Immigration Code, which facilitated the process of revocation and operated the electronic platform. Therefore, with the adoption of the provision, the operation of the electronic platform will be resumed, and with this provision it will be possible until 31-12-2021, at the end of the year, for requests from stakeholders to be made, so that the workers of land from third countries can come to our home country, in Greece and have a stay in our country starting 30 days ago, can reach up to 90 days and with the request, may be extended for another 90 days. So a total stay of eighty days in our country, about six months. In relation to Article 2, as the Minister explained, it was withdrawn for legal reasons, in consultation with the Secretariat-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, in order to assess the performance of professional rights to graduates and other departments, in addition to those mentioned in the amendment tabled, which have a related cognitive object, so that it can re-examine and return to the House in a new bill, with content in the same direction as the amendment tabled. A report to the ELGA. Two provisions concerning the ELGA. There was a lot of discussion about the ELGA. The first is the harmonisation of the term of office of the President with the other members of the Management Board. It is worth making a reference to the mandate of this President, who has been faced with climate crisis conditions that we have never lived in the last forty to fifty years in our country. It is also worth noting that with the management carried out in ELGA, we have achieved within the same year, where there are damages and disasters, compensation for producers, when in previous years producers' compensation time began from one year and may reach eighteen months, or both, or more. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. There is an extension until 31/12 to pay the advances, so that we can have the estimates, as appropriate, and there to predict the crops for which the relevant assessments by the ELGA have so far not been able to be made. I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: our government in a series of measures has literally supported the primary production of our country. These measures are tax measures - I do not mention one, one - they are aid measures because of COVID -19, they are compensation measures in relation to the disasters that have taken place, they are the measures granted by the repayable advances, where more than EUR 900 million in the primary sector in the country as a whole has been granted, including the measures for COVID -19 and the measures for repayable advances and the latest intervention, where there will be a reduction in oil - which we are managing the energy crisis - and which is more than 50 000 producers in our country. With the aim of aiming, therefore, we are next to the farmers, with the producers, and in practice we seem to be supporting them. In addition, we are at a time when the Common Agricultural Policy, our national plan, where we have measures supporting livestock farming, for the reasons I mentioned above. The increase in stock farming as a whole from the new common agricultural policy exceeds EUR 100 million, taking account of the increase in the costs of recreation, proteins and other livestock, which help to reduce production costs. Therefore, with targeted measures, in particular, we prove that we support the country's livestock world, primary production, to benefit our national economy, to go to recovery and development, which we all so much need. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u253	Thank you too, Minister. The Member of the New Republic, Maria Kefala, is requesting a short-day foreign leave. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u254	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Similarly, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Andreas Patsi, is requesting a short-day foreign leave. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u255	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I wanted to ask you, if any of the rapporteurs or special speakers would like a very small second, to be of a two-minute duration.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, my name has been heard twenty times.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u257	That's what it sounds like. You won't get on the Step. You'll speak from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u258	All right, I will take the floor from here, but at least 20 times it was heard by the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy "Mrs. So I say that listening to the rural world from morning to night applauds the New Democracy. But this is happening in a fantasy world and not in the dystopic world that we are living through, where we have increased accuracy, increasing farmland, increasing feed, increasing the current twice as much as it was last year and with retroactive power in tariffs since the beginning of 2021, an increase in oil traffic. Here, then, is the black white one and it is coming to tell us that it welcomes the very great energy of the New Democracy Government to give EUR 250 to pensioners when the New Democracy was the tenth pension, which was a full pension given by the SYRIZA government called it crumbs. And that is a great deal of money, and it is even given to eight hundred thirty thousand pensioners of two and a half million of the pensioners. A million seven hundred thousand pensioners won't get that money either. And he comes in and says that we are making policy for the workers. You gave them 50 minutes, a cookie and make them rich! And we put-- he says-- to the ELGA money. Where did you get the money to put it in the ELGA? Of the 37 billion who left you a pillow and not the empty funds you left in our government in 2015. I would say to the Parliamentary Spokesman about this bill, because he was saying the same thing about Law 4711/2020 that he brought here with Mr Voridis, to keep her speech today because she will very soon also revise this law that comes as a revision of the previous law, so that she does not get tired of writing from the beginning. Unfounded and weak elements and articles in this bill! We'll find them in front of us, and we and the cattle farmers. It's not panacea. We have pointed out the problematic elements and we hear from the State Secretary from Mr Kedicoglou that there is no problem with the distance between livestock and slaughterhouses because that - he says - it will be something positive, because they will not turn the animals around. So the slaughterhouses will be individual for a livestock unit? The parliamentary representative says: The issue of the management plans is something that SYRIZA has delayed. And Mr Kedicoglou comes to tell us histories and responsibilities. Your story's good, but he's missing the dragon. And the dragon is the blue districts that have undermined it, and at the moment you are facing the same problem. I welcomed what you said that if they don't think about the extension you're giving, you'll get to the Ministry. But don't show that SYRIZA didn't want to do it. Your executives were the ones that created the problem. A lot of issues in this bill are referred to in the future. We are told here by the Parliamentary Representative: where did you see that, in the verticalisation of production which allows the creation of processing undertakings for animal products, cooperatives and producer units are not provided for? And I repeat: Where did he see that they were predicted? The bill is clear. He's talking about setting up business by the owner of the livestock business. She should tell us herself where she sees cooperatives and producer groups and landlords. And one last thing for Mr Karasmanis who did not say very much or very much that by their own actions in the New Democracy we managed the country to get back the 446 million of the pastures. It is true that from the New Democracy in 2014 an appeal was made for these retentions. But he wasn't right. Date of birth: (a) 1966; (b) 1968; (c) 1971; (d) 1971; (d) 1971; (e) 1971. The appeals to this preliminary ruling of the Court of Justice were made by the SYRIZA Government. We cannot question reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u259	You've become comprehensible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u260	I shall conclude by thanking you, Mr President, but a great deal has been done. Here we have negatives of reality beyond the negative vaccinationers. Here it was with legal arguments that we had given since we changed the regulation...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u261	Please don't go any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u262	On legal grounds, the country brought the appeal to the European Court of Justice in cooperation with Spain and we took the 446 million back, which you did not return to farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Panos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u264	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u265	Minister, at the end of the day you will close the sitting so that we do not open a course of questions - answer. It will take the floor for any of the rapporteurs and you will close this whole process. Here, Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u266	I won't bother you too much time. I want to say two things. First of all, we have set a framework in total as far as the part of agricultural policy in the country is concerned, and we believe that this is important at the moment, but we need to see from now on. As far as the bill is concerned, we will vote yes in principle, because we are keeping the positive elements of the bill and those which can give a character to the part of livestock establishments that are different and facilitated. As far as the part of the amendments is concerned, the employment of the land workers in third countries is an issue which I, at least, have put it for a year. So we are in favour of this amendment and I fully agree with the Minister that this must now take a specific basis and have a legal framework that will make specific data on the employment of the land workers of third countries. We shall also vote on Amendment No 1142. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, too. Here, Mr. Antoniadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u268	Just two phrases. First of all, today SYRIZA for once proves and confirms that he has been divorced, with reality and real life and the second, walks on the tracks of a doctrine, yes to nothing!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Boobas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u270	I will not go far, Mr President. Listen to see, as much as we want to golden the pill or beautify this bill, we as Greek Solution consent to the articles on arbitrary buildings, because this cannot be a brood for farmers. What has to be done with the arbitrary to get this over with? In the second part, despite the delays, Article 14 gives our consent to the management improvement plans for grazing land. There we will say about land maps, too, that they should know their national capital, because grassland is a national reserve and a national capital. We will also say yes to Article 16 on compensation for farmers from the rough spring 2021, despite delays, but we cannot deprive these people of this money even the 40% advance to heal the wounds. But in essence we will say "residents" in the bill, because we hope that as a Greek Solution, gentlemen of the Ministry, you will finally bring in a bill that will essentially concern the agricultural livestock sector by putting in areas and changing the image of the country's primary sector. I mean, in other words, tax relief in respect of income tax which has eroded at some 45%, not taxation and above all over-taxation on Community aid, to deduct farmers' cover and insurance contributions from costs, so that people can also cover their insurance company, to provide incentives with a special legislative framework for small flexible cooperatives. What SYRIZA told you is absolutely right. You do not promote the cooperatives, apart from the fact that our pastures had in fact accused us of not applying Union law and there was a right after 2016 in the European courts to repay this money for pastures. So, as far as all this is concerned, we should finally help the farmer and the farmer in real terms. And in the case of livestock businesses - I will say again - the studies say that 15 000 companies - understand - from suppliers, traffickers, packaging. Behind a building is two hundred fifty jobs. Behind livestock is fifteen thousand businesses. In what the honourable Minister, Mr Kedicoglou, said about how many livestock businesses there are in Greece, the landscape is blurred and one thing we will repeat and must concern you, gentlemen. From 2014 until now, thirty - one thousand farms have been closed down. We had, Minister and Minister, a hundred nine to ten thousand. We're about sixty-nine and seventy-three thousand right now. That there is a very large percentage that do not have legal permissions that is a truth. But they've always taken it down and shrunk. This must concern us with all the EUR 2 billion that we spend as imports of animal products where we only cover 30%. We therefore want tax incentives, special treatment for cooperatives, especially their small ones, so that we can also have farm and livestock standards now. We have a number of questions to ask, and that is why we cannot vote in favour of the bill, for example, in Article 8 if the farmer can increase his livestock. We haven't seen a clear answer to that. There are many other ambiguities. Only facilities are not panacea. At last, make cuts so that farmers and farmers can get together. And, in conclusion, the one with the agricultural oil that the government says is going to finance is putting an asterisk on it. It only goes for the members associated. The multitude of farmers who are not members of cooperatives will not get aid for agricultural oil? I'm from Serres County. It's a purely agricultural and livestock county. The question comes in. You have to tell the farmers. In any case, we must at last bend to their problems and, as far as electricity is concerned, do not have any illusions. PPC's privatisation, because in 1950 PPC was made to buy four hundred companies, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u271	Finish it. Go from one theme to the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u272	It's not going to be cheaper than electricity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr. Buba.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u275	We are closing the speeches of the special speakers and the rapporteurs with Mr Lambroulis. Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. Starting with the bill, we were placed in today's sitting and in the committees as well. In response, of course, to the Minister's objections that we do not have any proposals - not only for our party, but for opposition in general - we have tabled a number of proposals to the committee and to the debate today. Obviously, the government does not find them in the direction that it itself wants to promote the measures it is promoting. The proposals that we have proposed in relation to the bill were in the direction of how they will help and ease the measures and policies that have accumulated the enormous problems of farmers and farmers over the years and over the last few years. The three amendments, which were rejected by the Ministry, which have indeed to do with measures which, if adopted, could have the immediate effect, could have been adopted. And I am talking about VAT, zero VAT, as we have proposed, on agricultural supplies, on tools and on feed, which is a measure which will also strengthen the liquidity of farmers and farmers who find it difficult to survive. The second amendment concerned subsidisation and the abolition of the adjustment clause on agricultural streams, which has evaporated the cost of production through the realisation of the current. And, of course, the excise duty on oil, its return, but also on the whole of the farmers, whether they are partners or young people, because the remaining two hundred so many - because we have heard the figures - of the hundreds of sixty - seventy thousand which will benefit from the so-called regulation - crustaceans say we - 50 million of the other two thousand are? Guys of a lower god? They don't burn their tractors? I am closing with Amendment No 1141, the one left for the land workers of third countries. We want to raise this issue here on the EUR 100 ranch which is excessively burdened by the bio-opportunist farmers who bring post-harvest land workers. Most farmers - you know - use seasonal workers. They have small or medium-sized farms, however, and, in our view, this raisin should be abolished for this world. And, of course, we are also putting the health care issues of all these workers who come from abroad and on the occasion, if you want, and the development of the pandemic, that is, issues that have to do not only with prevention, that is, COVID tests, goes by saying, which should be covered by the state and others, but also the vaccination of these people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, too. Minister, Mr Kedicoglou, I give the floor to you to close the whole process today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr President. I hope I will close together because, as I have seen, we are all in pain with the primary sector. My office is always open to see what we can do better. You cannot, however, question that this bill opens the door to a hundred thousand farmers to enter Community programmes. Leave all the other ends. You don't want these people to evolve? You don't want them to be able to grow? I only live in it. For everything else, my office is open to talk about it. Come on, let's see, because I honestly believe that every review was good. Mrs. Tyloridou, I know her well. The JRC, I know very well how much it hurts the primary sector. KINAL made good criticism, both Greek Solution and Mera25. I think we all have a common fight. The primary sector has no color. We need to see what the best solutions are. However, in essence this bill enables hundreds of thousands of farmers to enter Community programmes. That's the point. I hope you'll agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u279	Thank you too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is adjourned: 'Measures to facilitate and modernise the establishment and operation of livestock facilities, provisions for controls and sanctions and other urgent arrangements'. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles and amendments and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of seventeen articles, of two amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u280	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u281	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u282	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Statutes to facilitate and modernise the establishment and operation of livestock establishments, provisions for controls and sanctions and other emergency arrangements’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u283	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u284	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-25-S1-commons.u285	With the consent of the House at 22.28 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 26 November 2021, at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate
