ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Wednesday 27 January 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 333/22-1-2021, a topical question by MP B1'North Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Customs of invoking the pandemic and with non-ASP procedures in Attica". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 341/25-1-2021 of the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The need to strengthen the Museology Department in the Tower." 3. Under No 328/19-1-2021 the current question of the Athens MP, Mr. Angelikos Adamopoulou, to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Theodoros Livanios, on the subject: "Serious complaints of the Association of Technical Radio." B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 350/25-1-2021 topical question by MP Pella of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jakri to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The construction of a new modern building for the accommodation of the Giannitson Music School". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 343/25-1-2021 by Congressman B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "An accident at the nuclear plant in Turkey's Hearing". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the LEGISLATIVE WORK Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: 'a) Clear the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Bulgaria on the pipeline between Greece and Bulgaria (IGB Project) and (b) Clear the Statute of the Natural Gas Forum for the Eastern Mediterranean (EMGF)'. The bill was passed in the Standing Committee by a majority vote and is brought to the House under Rule 108 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Those who object to the ratification of this agreement may take the floor. The debate will take place solely on the basis of the Rules of Procedure and the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 21 January 2021, the objections and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish and have not been spoken before the President of their Parliament. The procedure is formal and I have the agreement of the House. Everyone, except for the New Democracy, was against or had objections. They will therefore all take the floor. Because Mr. Loading is the only one in favor, you will allow me to give him that speech at the end. Parliamentary representatives and the Minister will be followed and we will be closed. As usual, we go backwards. Because Mr. Arsenis is late, Mr. Villard will speak. Those of you who want to speak from your position, as long as the time is five minutes. Everyone you want to come to Stepma. Mr. Villard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, a little more time, because there are two conventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u3	There'll be a tolerance. Don't worry. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, as we mentioned in the committee, the IGB pipeline and the Alexandroupolis FSRU will be powered by LNG in Bulgaria and the Balkans. But they will also have a reverse flow. The IGB pipeline has an initial capacity of three billion cubic metres of natural gas per year, with the possibility of increasing it to five billion cubic metres by building a compression plant. It is eighty-two kilometers long, starts in Komotini and ends in the Bulgarian Stara Zagora. Within the Greek territory, about thirty thousand kilometres will be located, i.e. only 17%. The rate is important because on this basis the profits and tax revenues for the Greek State will be calculated. The European Energy Recovery Programme, as well as the Bulgarian Structural Funds, is expected to be provided for the construction of the EUR 84 million grant. The total cost of construction and operation of the IGB pipeline will be EUR 240 million, and the responsibility for the development, construction and operation of the pipeline lies with the company ‘ICGB AD’. Construction tax exemptions and fiscal stability are granted for 15 years. We are, however, sceptical about economic success, since LNG is more expensive than gas in pipelines. The company's shareholders are the "Bulgarian Energy Holding" with a 50% rate and the "IGI POSEIDON" with a 50% rate as well. In the latter, the DEPA and the 'EDISON' are equal. The owner of the FSRU is the company ‘GASTRADE’, founder of Mr. Kopelouzo, which participates in the ‘DEPA EMPORIA’, DESFA, ‘ROMGAZ’, ‘BULGARTRANSGAZ’ and ‘GASLOG’ of the vessel owner LNG Lebanon. The Onassis Foundation also participates in the latter. As far as the geopolitical parameter is concerned, we have stressed that the pipeline and the FSRU are part of the geopolitical games of transition to natural gas after the replacement of lignite. Apart from the deposits, the dispute is made for their transport pipelines, which is equally important. Continuing, in recent years with the turbulence in Ukraine, there have been problems in Russia's gas flow to Europe, which can be changed after the end of Nord Stream 2 that the United States does not want by imposing sanctions, as well as Turkey's TurkStream. If it happens, then Germany will control the flow to the north of Europe, especially if there are sanctions in Belarus, nothing is accidental, which passes through the only continental pipeline outside Ukraine, which is a major energy hub. Germany, in conjunction with Turkey, which is in fact an ally and a colony, will be able to provide gas from Azerbaijan either through the TAP or the TANAP, then controlling the entire European Union gas market. On the other hand, there is the problem of Libya, which is intense because of the civil conflict with Turkey's involvement. Libya feeds Italy, Italy, it makes sense to sacrifice Greece's supply against its trade with Turkey. The same is true of Spain and Morocco, which faces EEZ and migration issues in the Canary Islands. Libya's supply can be combined with the one of Egypt that has found Zor's new deposits, where it is adjacent to the Greek and Cypriot EEZ in Herodotus' rich basin. Therefore, Turkey's interest is also great in preventing EastMed, but also in looking. It is obviously not alone, since Germany is also involved in supporting its always-covered ally Turkey in both its claims against Greece and Libya. Apart from our above positions, the main reasons why we do not agree that there is a colonial logic in the draft law: firstly, in Article 5, our state should have the right to control the origin and interests of the gas that will pass through the pipeline, so whether or not it is hostile countries. Secondly, Article 6 is unacceptablely restricted to exercising our national sovereignty within our own territory. Our obligations are disproportionate to our benefits, and there is no provision for what will happen in the event of war. Thirdly, Article 7 does not agree that management will be carried out by Bulgaria, while the permanent establishment will be in Greece. Furthermore, there is no reference to the extent of the installation and the interests it will serve. Fourthly, in Article 8, the war is recognised as a reason for force majeure in favour of investors, while the state is obliged to lift force majeure otherwise it will have to spend funds to do so. Thus, a sovereign state does not function, but a servant of investors. Fifthly, Article 9 refers to responsibilities, but there is no evidence of the State's profits from the investment. Sixthly, in Article 10, disputes should be resolved by national courts on the basis of domestic and Community law, not by an international arbitration body. Seventh and last, Article 11 is too binding for a complaint as to the status of a sovereign state. In relation to the statutes of the Eastern Mediterranean Natural Gas Forum, the EMGF, with which we are not opposed, participates Cyprus, Greece, Egypt, Israel, Jordan and Palestine. In this respect, no defence agreement or assistance between the Member States of the Forum has been foreseen in the event that a third country has acted aggressively against the energy interests of one of the Member States. Our proposal here was to include Lebanon, a country with a Greek Orthodox community suffering from rivalry and seriously at risk from Turkey. However, following the reference to the transfer of gas through Turkey by Israel and its proposal to participate in the forum, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, we have very serious reservations. As also with IGB, we believe that we are giving everything to the Americans as well as the Germans, without any consideration. We shall therefore vote on both of them. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor, who will speak with two qualities, both as rapporteur and as a parliamentary representative. So I'll put him in the first place twice a year. If you need a little more, I'll give you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me begin by denounce the new unacceptable action, namely the Greek Police decision, to ban meetings until February 1st. This is a decision confirming the escalation of authoritarianism and repression on the part of the government. The pandemic for the government is a pretext. The ban has a clear objective. It is against the neo-liberal, labour and popular movement aimed at passing through fire and iron the anti-population policy of the government, to pass the new plans of the government against the right to education, to educate the youth of the people's population, to turn high school into an examination and to put barriers to the introduction, but also to the completion of studies for the workers of students, turning universities into a core of authoritarianism and state terrorism through the establishment of the university police. That is why the government has now kept the universities closed down for a year, because it does not want students in universities to be able to cross measures against students. It is deeply mistaken that the government has its hands in this way to do whatever it wants and to vote for whatever it wants. This unacceptable decision by the Greek Police to ban meetings will become a rag and will make it a rag for the young people themselves and the workers, the students. The rallys announced on January 28th will show the determination of the new generation and teachers. We call on the government now to take this unacceptable decision of the Greek Police, otherwise we tell her clearly: it is sowing winds and it will reap storms. I come to the bill we are now debating on ratification of the two conventions. The two conventions, both for the IGB and for the Energy Forum for the natural gas of the south-eastern Mediterranean, are part of a puzzle that is part of the great picture. This large picture in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans is characterised by the sharp competitions with differentiation, on the one hand by the Americans and the European Union, against Russia, on the energy sources to be exploited for energy roads and against China for commercial roads. Greece has chosen a camp from today, but much more than the previous government, to be the marker of the American imperialist plans in the region. It is a decision that is linked to the strategic choice for a geostrategic upgrading of our country, that is to say, the participation of our country's bourgeoisie, which will be done against the peoples of the region to get a piece of pie, a choice that even exacerbates competition with Turkey, whose aggression is escalating. It disputes sovereign rights and borders and, as is shown by the ongoing discussions, the compromise is under way, namely the co-management of the Aegean's energy reserves and the eastern Mediterranean under the wings of the Americans and NATO. After all, this is the option that has turned our country into a vast American base, where there are their armaments and hunting programmes, where infrastructure is granted to the Americans, ports and shipyards. With the IGB, but with the other five major energy projects that are being carried out in northern Greece at the moment, our country's urban order seeks to transform the region into an energy hub in the Balkans. All of these five projects - not randomly - are US inspirations and TAP and the gas interconnector with northern Macedonia and the upgrading of the oil pipeline with northern Macedonia and IGB, as well as the liquefied natural gas facilities in the port of Alexandroupolis, which will supply IGB with liquefied natural gas and essentially the northern eastern axis. It is liquefied natural gas which can certainly be from the United States, but also from the Eastern Mediterranean. Target's clean. It is Russia's energy isolation and, of course, Russia's military encirculation, but also in the Eastern Mediterranean, it promotes US planning. In this context is the creation of the forum, which is also American inspiration. The aim of this forum is precisely to unify the gas market, the mining, the supply and the transportation of natural gas. There are seven countries which are founding members and already the United Arab Emirates as an observer, while, on the basis of reports, France has asked for permanent membership, but also the United States as observers to be able to control this forum directly. Of course, the aim of this forum, but also the projects carried out in the south-eastern Mediterranean, is the isolation of Iran's energy. Who, then, serves these two conventions? It is clear that they serve the energy plans of the United States of America in our region and the European Union, that they serve the interests of multinational mining, exploitation, marketing and the transportation of natural gas. The government claims, but also SYRIZA, that they are security and peace works for the region. What are we talking about? That we had “the wolf guarding the sheep”, turning the imperialists into a peace factor in the region, when it is known that the imperialists, the Americans, NATO and the European Union intervene militaryly in the region. They're trying to change the border. They are trying to share and redistribute transport markets and routes. In this respect, this is a dangerous concept. It is at the expense of the security of our country and of military security. After all, the immediate stakeholders of these military aggressive actions by the Americans and NATO, that is, the Russians and the Iranians, have said that they will respond and Greece is a magnet of such retaliation. Of course they do not serve the energy security of our country, since you have agreed together to move away from lignite and to bring an imported fossil fuel to the safety of the system, in other words natural gas, as a fuel. Even sources of supply are falling. In other words, instead of diversifying sources there is one-sidedness in the sources of gas supply, turning our country even more vulnerable to these designs and the various threats. Finally, this option is not to satisfy and meet the energy needs of our people. It is well-known that energy poverty is afflicting the populace more widely. This will further increase the phenomenon, since we will have to deal with an even more expensive power and energy in one region - and this is the great contradiction - such as our country, where there are inexhaustible sources of energy and fossil and renewable inexhaustible energy sources, where technology is available and which could have been very cheap for the people, but also for the productive needs of our country. But this does not allow the hunting of profits and the logic of commercialisation to become more and more energy. In this respect, Mr President, it is clear that the JRC will vote against both conventions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u7	He now has the floor, Mr. George Arvanitides, a special speaker of the Movement of Change.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. For the first time, although I am consistent, I will ask for tolerance of time. I would like to comment, Minister, on the Prime Minister's visit yesterday to the Ministry of Energy and his statement that he is very happy that we have overcome the objective of electric car power and electric car purchase. We made an announcement. There was, of course, an answer from New Democracy to us by the former Secretary-General of Trade and Consumers. I should like to comment on the fact that the only objective you have finally achieved in the economic objectives you have set as a government, whether for deficits or for GDP or for recession and how much for electric cars. So our comment was that we don't know why the Prime Minister was so happy. Electric cars that consume not green energy, but energy. Since we have not finished connections, we have not advanced the penetration of RES, it is not green current. I don't think that's the big target. The resources that finance the electricity market come from the Green Fund, which you have just cut from 6% to 1% of the inhabitants of western Macedonia, who are in particular in need of them. Resources do not go to immediate results for the circular economy, which have a direct effect on both the country's environmental footprint and do not solve infrastructure issues. I will tell you that in Malgara and Kymina - you may not know them, they are seven, eight thousand inhabitants in the Delta Municipality - they still drink water with manganese. They've prepared the study, took it to the district, didn't go to the NRP. Can we not solve these problems and have the great goal of getting electric cars to support Europe's industries now, directly? And I'm not saying we don't have electricity. Because as an example of where we are going, it is worthwhile, but as a result and need to solve problems immediately, I think you should not be so happy with the Ministry. To come to the two conventions now. We are talking today about the IGB pipeline between Greece and Bulgaria and the statute for gas in the Eastern Mediterranean. Of course, the texts of the conventions by their ratification will prevail over any other legislation that is contrary to our Constitution. As I said in committee, we are positive in both parts of this bill. The governments that preceded and the PASOK governments made a special contribution to meeting us here today. But, as I told you in committee, the major delays, in particular the IGB, but also the new data - and this is the most important one - are shaped in the area and in the environment as a whole. I am referring both to the European Union's decisions on 'Green Deal' and natural gas as well as to the coronary pandemic and to Turkish claims. The fact is that our region's energy map is being redesigned and developments are being "run". So we need to constantly adapt our priorities and take advantage of opportunities. Greece has been trying to make use of its geopolitical position on the changing geopolitical map for the past 10 years, with the ultimate aim of being the energy cross-surfer from east to west and from south to north. That is why we need to strengthen energy links with our neighbouring states. However, the main objective of this national energy policy must be to maximise energy security, multiple alternative sources of travel at competitive prices and reduce energy costs. So we need to strengthen the required energy infrastructure and networks, the interconnections with neighbouring countries and the storage of energy. Both the TAP, which was completed, and the vertical corridor to the north, are IGB projects, with the twin of the project, FSRU, in Alexandroupolis being initiatives, as I said, over the previous years, and it needs the country to be fully operational. Today, the country's energy planning must be in line with global studies - and that is our position - which predicts that natural gas will play the role of the bridge fuel in the energy transition. The international gas pipelines, EastMed and IGB, but also the liquefied natural gas stations, we all understand how important they are for the country. At the same time, these pipelines can transport gases produced from renewable electricity, such as hydrogen, and thus form part of the total system of production, storage and transmission with zero CO2 emissions. So, with these points, I am actually coming to the bottom of what we are talking about. In relation to the IGB, there are delays and this is the big issue which concerns us and increases the responsibility of the Ministry and the Government to 'run'. Bulgaria has ratified the Convention as of July 2020. We, despite Mr Stathakis' statements at the beginning of 2020, will be ready for IGB, although last Thursday the Minister said that it would be completed in accordance with the timetables, you understand, ladies and gentlemen, that we are already talking about a two-year delay. I mentioned all of this to show how important the Timing of the period that we are going through is. IGB is a critical vote across the energy puzzle in northern Greece if the country wants to become an energy HUB. Of course, all these IGB actions also affect Alexandroupolis’ FSRU. Of course, this is all linked to what is going to happen in the PPC, the 'International Unity', privatisation. I hope that all of this will not cancel the evolution of the project and take it particularly back, since Timing is particularly important, because Europe, with its decision to become climate neutral by 2050, leaves behind the financing of natural gas projects and the development of its networks. There are risks of such infrastructure not even being able to add their fixed assets. Greece depends almost 100%, according to choices, on imported natural gas. You realise what this means for the relationship between Russia and the Ukrainian and Romanian pipelines, the Turkish pipeline. Here is the big question of how quickly and what the conventions the country will sign for to ensure its energy adequacy and energy security. With regard to the second part of the bill and the adoption of the Forum for Natural Gas, Minister, I have tabled the proposal to you and you must take it into account in particular, as regards the Greek proposal which must be put to the table, so that the Forum on Natural Gas can be converted into an energy forum. It is a major objective that you could set and in general include closer energy cooperation between the countries of the Eastern Mediterranean. I am presenting this proposal to you, because the time of technological and energy developments is more rapid than political developments. You know that the electricity connections in the Eastern Mediterranean will involve us in the near future more and more frequently, the windline, the other renewable energy sources, despite natural gas. They're in front of us and they're issues that we have to deal with and they can deal with this forum. Of course, we should also comment on yesterday's statement and the 'opening' of the Israeli Minister of Energy to his Turkish counterpart. You know that Mr Steinitz, referring to the difficult relations between the two countries in the previous period, said that 'now we are ready to give Turkey a second chance' and that he will be happy to see Turkey join the Eastern Mediterranean gas forum. You need to place yourself on this call, Minister. Of course Turkey must be involved, but we must constantly stress the terms and conditions of this participation, which are not other than the explicit acceptance of the Law of the Sea and the other rules of international law. Especially for EastMed, our position sets three very specific conditions for its smooth implementation: Firstly, it must act as a means of cooperation, peace, unity and development of the countries of the Eastern Mediterranean and of the European Union to join the agreement. Secondly, countries signatory to the EastMed support agreement should commit themselves politically and in the long term that this pipeline will be a key option for us to move to Europe for new gas fields. Thirdly, we must ensure the financing of the project from European funds and the commitment of large consumers to buy gas volumes in order to make EastMed, this investment can be realised. As to the possible withdrawal of Repsol from the hydrocarbons surveys, does this include the withdrawal of the Spaniards from the three plots involved with the ELPEs in the Ionian Sea? Finally, Minister, two to three days ago, we had the major accident at the nuclear plant under construction in Akuy, Turkey. From this step forward, I tell you that the country must lead Europe and the appropriate European body to consider the conditions of the operation of this station. In 2023, the Aku will work. Under which control, under what conditions? I believe that this is a particularly important issue that needs to be raised in a European context. I close here because of the time I have. These are issues that will concern us in the next few days. Thank you very much and thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Famele, you'll expect Mr. Arsenis to speak, and then you will. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, MP and MP, at the time that this convention was in place for the pipeline - namely a few hours ago - in America, Trump was being called off by abolishing the Keystone pipeline. It was one of the first decisions of the new President, precisely because this symbolized the 'defence' of 'Trubism'. The Keystone pipeline is not much different from what we do. It is a pipeline, which in larger economies, with much greater effect, would connect the gas and oil networks of the two countries, America and Canada. And they cursed him with a signature. The reason for this was environmental risk and poor quality environmental studies. It was going through, like IGB, through protected areas. Of course, the main reason is climate change. Because after "Trubism", people are returning to tackling the climate crisis. "Trubism" because we will soon forget about it means extracting oil and hydrocarbons, while our world is burning from their mining and burning. Make pipelines within protected areas, when it depends on whether we can cope with the climate crisis. Give mining licenses where they didn't exist. For the rest of the world, who, like us, faces pandemic, once the pandemic ends, there will be an essential issue, a threat to humanity, beyond the economic crisis that follows: the climate crisis. But you - and when I say 'you', I talk about your government and the previous - with a backward group of neighbours, you suddenly discover 'black gold' now, in the middle of the escalation of climate change. You're not alone. Trump did it, too. But you're staying alone. You're staying alone with the oil companies that were your partners. It sounds like Repsol departs from the three plots, which were contagious to you, Ionian, Epirus and Itolokarnania. The sure thing is that Repsol leaves many of its investments and turns to renewable energy, because it understands that after Trump, the hydrocarbon story is over. The refusal of the climate crisis is ending. The world is coming back in contact with reality. But backwardness in Europe and globally puts a last stop to the climate crisis and the elimination of hydrocarbons, gas. Future technologies, companies, pipelines and projects are all of them. Let me remind you that in Alberta after the communication on the abolition of the Keystone pipeline, they announced that to reduce their damage they would sell the metal as a scrap. These are the consequences. But let's see how the gas sweater is unfolding. Within just two years, twelve states in America have already banned the use of natural gas for heating in new buildings. In the United Kingdom since 2025. With regard to automobile: Canada since 2040, Quebec, the State of Canada since 2035. And it calls on the new political leadership of America, the President of Canada, to make common legislation to ban in North America the use of gas in cars. In the United Kingdom, a car ban has been banned since 2030... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a very low tolerance, Mr President, to conclude. ...in India in 2030, in Canada, as we said, in 2040, in Austria in 2027. In the European Union, it has already been discussed. Ten countries supported it. He didn't come by for the moment, but he'll come back. What we are talking about - and we will also get a cross-party consensus I fear - at the moment in this House is the 'dinosaurs' of technology, as if you were subsidising fax factories. Except these wouldn't destroy our country. As for the geopolitical fairy tale, give us an example that these pipelines benefited the country. Tell us, indeed, which country in the world reliably believes that your Government or other governments, which have been tied backwards with agreements, such as the one we ratify, will ever cut gas supply to the other regions, so it will be a risk and will therefore be measurable and calculated. The hydrocarbon race, which we have been in over recent years, is of no benefit to Greece. It increases tensions with Turkey, another Paleolithic political country, which too wants hydrocarbons and is prepared to fight with us if necessary. The one-eyed one in our neighborhood should really lead, because it seems to be living in a small neighborhood in the world that is exceptionally blind to the climate crisis. I call on you and I urge the House to return to reality, to understand that Trumpism has ended and that the climate crisis is a reality, which we face not by pipelines, but by turning to our energy mix, with a turn in renewable energy sources, with a plan, with spatial planning, not anarchy, with respect for our natural ecosystems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u11	The rapporteur-general will now be given the floor from SYRIZA, Mr Socrates Famelos. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have to begin with a statement on the government's current notification of a ban on concentrations. This is another anti-democratic option away from the rules of science. It is clear that the epidemiology scientists have already disagreed with this suggestion and with this choice. Mr President, unfortunately it is a procession, a clear method, which aims only at limiting the functioning, if you like, of democracy, which is to react and criticize the measures taken by the government. And it's not just the unreliability created about pandemic, because it's being created intensely in the world. Tell me what is the difference between what happened, for example, on Saturday and what can be done at a gathering. What is the risk of confusing? The main thing is that we have a government that sets a goal for democracy. This is very serious and we are tabling it with all its seriousness in Parliament. Mr President, on the subject of today's debate we have been talking about the committees. The interconnector, the IGB, Greece - Bulgaria and the natural gas forum are initiatives that matured or started during the governance of SYRIZA and are part of a wider effort, which succeeded during the government of SYRIZA, to become Greece a commercial and energy transit hub in the wider region. The meeting of the leaders of the Mediterranean, the cooperation of leaders in the Balkans, the Prespecies Agreement, the tripartite meeting in the Eastern Mediterranean, the participation of the "Mexico Road" are initiatives that contributed in this direction because they served a structured strategy. The same was done with energy, since energy policy was also aimed at security of supply and at ensuring competitive prices and, if you like, the multitude of sources and routes, but also to strengthening our country's geopolitical role. Thus, EastMed, the IGB, the TAP, the FSRU of Alexandroupolis are works in this strategy. I must say that, although the SYRIZA Government, in a memorandum, strengthened the role of the State and the State in such key projects, the New Democracy Government is doing exactly the opposite. It is privatising critical infrastructure and Alexandroupolis’ FSRU, the portal, i.e. energy entry and the gas network throughout Greece, which is detrimental to public property, as well as to the national interest. However, I will not stay on this, although it is very critical, because we have identified in the committee debate something much more important and much more damaging. We have found that it is absent from the texts brought by the government, the parameter of the climate crisis, climate neutrality, adaptation, which is now official global policy and Europe in this direction. All this is lacking, Minister, in the text of East Mediterranean Gas Forum. Of course, environmental parameters and the need to deal with environmental accidents are underestimated. The absence of this strategy, of the climate strategy, of the texts you have brought us, and in particular of the text on the Eastern Mediterranean Forum, is worrying. And, indeed, imagine that we are talking about a text drawn up in the second half of 2020, that is, more than a year after Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras' commitment to the climate neutrality summit. So, unauthorized and diplomatically and politically. And when Europe has agreed on 'Green Deal', Greece goes back. That's dangerous. I would like to tell you, in order to avoid misunderstandings, that, in fact, these projects matured in an earlier period, before the EESC of the SYRIZA Government, the National Energy and Climate Plan, and before the conclusion of the Paris Agreement, at the UN World Summit that I had the honour and participated. There was, in fact, a target for a transition fuel, which was, however, amended since the ESRB of 2018, reducing the factor of intervention of natural gas in the country's energy balance. But you, apparently, do something completely different. It is not just the EMGF text. It seems that in the EESC, in the National Plan for Energy and Climate, the Mitsotakis Government, the role of natural gas is strengthened, because you are closing down lignites not to bring renewable energy sources, but to privatise gas generation and a few oligopolists - this is a mistake - and the world community is going in another direction, while President Biden is reinstated to the United States, while Chinese President Si Jinping at the UN Assembly talks about climate neutrality - even in 2060 - while the European Union is turning around to 55% reduction in greenhouse gases and is deterring even third countries from financing hydrocarbons projects. And that is what energy diplomacy is doing now in Europe. Also, if you want, they do not include natural gas projects or in the process of a fair transition. So you made this serious political, diplomatic and environmental error, and this change in Europe is even included in agreements such as with Japan and Canada. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some time, Mr President. So I see no reference to this commitment in the EMGF statute. And I have to tell you that this underestimates the sustainability problems that we see because of the pandemic there are in hydrocarbon projects. So what are we coming to tell you? You've made the wrong strategy, because you probably don't. It is only a 'green' wrapping of what you tell us about climate policy. We almost don't see it anywhere. On the other hand, you underestimate both economic conditions and sustainability issues. But Greece can stay behind. The absence of this perspective and the lack of other possibilities for cooperation in the EMGF statute cannot be left by us without comment. We therefore say that cooperation in the field of renewable energy sources and cooperation in the field of electricity interconnections and in environmental protection should enter the cooperation process. You've got to put them on. We suggest that. This will probably confirm a turn and yours in the issues of environmental and energy policy. We, therefore, have proposed, Mr President - and I conclude - a change in the policy of the government, which will be characterised by a climate law, but also a shift in the issues of hydrocarbons and policy. This also requires the revision of the National Plan on Energy and Climate, since we have the goal of more than 55%. We must therefore agree on another plan, Mr President, which will also take account of climate change and geopolitical balances in our country. And the debate on hydrocarbons, Minister, needs to be opened at Mediterranean level. We, too, agree on such a perspective, on rehabilitation of hydrocarbons, and on energy diplomacy, on issues beyond RES and electrical interconnections. I will close with two references to the projects, to comment on some of the issues that the Minister has said, because we have to close them and have a common basis for history, Minister. IGB is an important project with a large energy footprint and contributes to the security of energy supply. It is a project linked to the Greek energy system, but also to the southern corridor. Let us make it clear that before the SYRIZA government - it even joined European works of interest - it already had a 10-year planning. However, during the governance of SYRIZA - because you referred to the freezing - I remember the second phase of the market test and the final investment agreement with Mr Skourletis and the creation of the South corridor council with Mr Stathakis, the signature with the TAP - to get natural gas from the south runway - the funding of the IGB in the presence of Mr. Kanetete again with Mr. Stathakis, the decision of the European Commission on compatibility with State aid and, finally, the signing of the inaugurations and the execution of the inaugurations with Mr Borisov and Alexis Tsipras and George Stathakis in May 2019. So it doesn't look frozen to me. Started at SYRIZA. Now, why is it indeed frozen for fourteen months now an agreement signed in October 2019, should Mr Hatzidakis tell us. Why would he keep this deal in the drawers for fourteen months and bring it to you now that Mr Hatzidakis has left? I don't know if history will ever answer that, Minister, but it's weird. Well, it wasn't cold on SYRIZA. Mr. Hatzidakis' drawers are left. With regard to the forum - and I close, Mr President - it is true that the Eastern Mediterranean Forum has matured and created as a political idea of the governance of SYRIZA. In fact, during that period an agreement was signed on the treatment of accidents involving hydrocarbons in the Mediterranean, which I had the honour of signing on behalf of Greece and which is not now shown in the statute. Beyond the issues of the absence of climate, there is no way of dealing with environmental accidents as a common framework. Here, then, I must say that the forum was founded on 14 January 2019 in Cairo in the presence of George Stathakis and his maturation took place in the previous two years. Together with Giorgos Karugalos, I remember, and George Stathakis first went - I think it was December 2017 - and we started this cooperation. So don't try to hide the past in the New Democracy's well-known propaganda. The issue is how this statute can extend energy diplomacy issues with a strategy for both the climate and the environment. And I say this, Mr President, because we on behalf of SYRIZA will support these initiatives. And the criticism we are making is firstly that the Mitsotakis Government does not alter reality - which, of course, has a high score on it - but also, secondly, that we highlight critical deficiencies that reduce the country's energy and diplomatic potential. We can't keep telling you all this. And to tell the truth, while you're trying to delete what SYRIZA's government has done, you're losing major advantages in diplomacy because they're logistics for the country. If you say that they were not done, you cannot invoke them in the international dialogue. Don't make this mistake. You reduce Greece's potential like this. But what we are pointing out, Mr President, is that, unfortunately, both on energy issues and, in particular, on climate adaptation to climate neutrality, the strategy is lacking. We hear a lot of good words, but we do not actually see any works. So it doesn't change. On the contrary, it gasifies electricity generation, it puts raisins on renewable energy sources - it does the opposite! - and it increases the price of the current, playing with a few oligars. So, this lack of strategy, we must point it out, because it is an anachronistic approach to energy policy and underestimates the objective. Instead of making Greece - if you want - and an energy hub, you are playing against climate adaptation with a few oligars. This is a tragic mistake. It is a lack of strategy, which we also identify in the areas of diplomacy. But, I think, on these matters, the Parliamentary spokesman will be more concerned about it. Because we cannot, particularly today, go without a strategy on relations with the neighbouring country as well. Mr President, thank you very much for the time you have given me. I believe that even now, Minister, you have the opportunity to turn towards a climate-friendly policy that will make Greece more competitive, but also sustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Loading has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from Mr Famello being cut for democracy, but also the Major Opposition, but we have not heard the same tone and with the same heat to judge and criticise their members who are closing their eyes to a serial killer, but also to a terrorist. So, with the same logic as you are cutting off for the demonstrations and democracy, with the same logic and the same heat, we would ask you to condemn and criticise all these unfortunate statements, but also the moves of your members, who support their signatures - I would say - unacceptable moves and statements. Now, as far as the environment and renewable energy sources are concerned, SYRIZA once again says others and others do. In other words, many of its members in local communities, but often also in the media, react against renewable energy sources and mobilize the world against them. So you can't cut yourself for the environment, for all of this, and on the other hand, come here and say other things. Now we're going to two sanctions. It's two very important sanctions. One ratification relates to the agreement of the Hellenic Republic with the Republic of Bulgaria, which is a very important initiative, the foundations of which came into force in 2009. It is the result of an agreement between the two countries and has been ratified by the Bulgarian Parliament in July 2020. Of course, this strengthens our country's geostrategic position and allows it to play a very important role in the Balkans' energy map and in the Eastern Mediterranean. The whole construction and the operation of the project will strengthen our country, since it will have become a gas entrance gate to the European market from various sources and mainly from the TAP. Furthermore, it also exploits the floating terminal of Alexandroupolis, since all quantities will be imported through it and, of course, it is planned to be transported to the north via the IGB. It should be noted that this is the first part of the vertical corridor, namely the interconnection of the national gas systems in Greece, Bulgaria, Romania and Hungary, with a view to the alternative supply of the countries of south-eastern Europe and central Europe. We are now going to the second agreement, the second ratification, which is being introduced and which concerns the establishment of the Eastern Mediterranean Natural Gas Forum. This is an international agreement, which concerns the establishment of the first international organisation of the South-East Mediterranean and which was signed in Cairo by seven countries. So today, by ratifying this agreement, we are actually applying it and putting it into direct effect. In other words, we are the fifth member, and it ratifys the agreement, which is necessary. Greece therefore seeks to have closer links with the countries of the south-eastern Mediterranean, of course always with a view to exploiting a large energy potential in the region. The Eastern Mediterranean countries face common challenges in the energy sector and the entire ratification of this forum can of course work, but also meet common challenges in the energy sector. It could also work as a model to promote a dialogue that will contribute to energy security, but also to the stability of the entire region. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that with these two sanctions, our country is finally investing in its own future. It invests, because it emerges from pandemic as a country with a new economic structure, which is the basis of an entirely different and green development. So, in this spirit, both advantageous agreements are moving and I invite you to vote in favour of them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u15	Thank you. We are now opening the speeches of the Parliamentary representatives on a rotating basis. It will be five, because Mr. Karathanasopoulos has spoken. The first is Mr. George Logiadis, Parliamentary Representative from Mera25. Mr. Loyadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I, too, would like to condemn the ban on public meetings throughout the country by the Chief of Police. As he says: "By decision of the Chief of Greek Police, they are forbidden..." and so on. The Minister responsible thinks he's behind the Chief of Police. Such decisions should be issued and only made by the government. Personally it reminds me - then I was 16 - of the 'Decision and order'. Shame on you! Merra25 is active in three levels: Worldwide, as a co-founder of the international progressive, Progressive International co-founder of Bernie Sanders, Noam Chomski and many others, pan-Europeanly as Diem25 and in Greece as a MERA25, the Greek arm of Diem25, and we highlight three issues, three goals, three levels. The environment and the climate crisis, health directly related to the climate crisis and education. Merra25 shall be in any form of extraction of hydrocarbons or fossil fuels which contribute to the creation of the greenhouse effect. At a pan-European level, since the beginning of our founding, Diem25 shows the need for the European Union to invest 5% of its GDP in green energy production for the next ten years. At Greek level we are in favour of the demarcation of EEZ, but only for floating wind parks. Today we read in the German press today that more energy was produced in the European Union last year from renewable energy sources rather than fossil fuels. We stress that hydrogen in the next few years will be the net replacement of fuel oil, diesel and carbon for the cancellation of greenhouse gases. That is why we recommend that the ports of Thessaloniki and Alexandroupolis establish hydrogen plants from renewable energy sources, such as wind turbines. No terrestrial wind turbines. I would like to stress that today a revolution is taking place in the production of hydrogen with mammoth investments. The German companies are developing an offshore wind turbines that will produce massive hydrogen through electrolysis, which breaks water down into hydrogen and oxygen. This investment is expected to lead to an increase in the demand of this renewable and completely natural to the fuel environment. At a time when European companies are looking for ways to get rid of carbon in order to reduce their environmental footprint, hydrogen is a renewable fuel produced as a green hydrogen from the electrolysis of water using renewable electricity. The hydrogen market has triggered a global business battle, the value of which will exceed 700 billion dollars by 2050, according to the BLOOMBERG. The Merra25 therefore emphasises that any Mediterranean country first creates a large hydrogen production unit and similar distribution network will gain a comparative development advantage. For this reason, our plan of Mera25 includes the conversion of northern Greece on the basis of the ports of Alexandroupolis and Thessaloniki to the number of a Mediterranean Centre for the Production and Movement of Hydrogen, using renewable electricity produced on floating wind turbines in the open seas, outside fishing areas and outside the field of view of the islands. So Mer25 is clear: no terrestrial wind turbines. We are talking here today about pipelines, the IGB, where the Bulgarian company 'Bulgarian Energy Holding' is owned by 50% and 50% by 50% by the Greek company 'IGI POSEIDON', which by 50% is controlled by the PPC and 50% by the Italian company 'EDISON', which 'EDISON' is controlled by the French company 'Electricité de France'. However, the PPC now operates under the jurisdiction of the HICP. The HICP is controlled by the AIA and therefore by the troika. So, basically, this work for Greece has no value. These works had to be of a public character. The Government of New Democracy, however, following on from the works launched in 2010 on PASOK and later continued on SYRIZA, privatising them and giving them to private individuals, an order from above and outside. Finally, in conclusion, I would like to say that anyone who controls the various promotion and distribution networks, whether these are agricultural products, such as our top olive oil, whether it is called tourism with the top Greek brand name, hospitality, or it is called energy, the one who controls the network has profits, gets profits. The rest of them get crumbs, and they're extras in the whole case. So while respecting the environment and knowing the disaster we have caused, knowing that the future is in 'green' energy such as hydrogen and not in fossil fuels, this investment we are discussing today is in a completely wrong direction. Finally, knowing that this investment is not Greek, since our 25% rate is controlled by the troika, we are voting against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. Parliamentary spokesman from the Greek Solution, Mr Constantine Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you realise that every time contracts, agreements or arrangements are in the Greek Parliament relating to the energy environment of Greece, our country, and especially when they have to do with gas or oil pipelines, you know in the Greek Solution we feel a right. We all feel this vindication on behalf of our President, Mr Velopoulos, and I am glad you agree and move your head against it - who has devoted all political life to such matters. Decades now has haird its tongue talking about huge mineral wealth, the geopolitical wealth and the position of our country, about how we should make use of huge deposits of hydrocarbons, which not only can solve our energy problem, but also put us in the role of a protagonist on the global energy map. Of course, when Kyriakos Velopoulos said that, you received laughs, cleverness, irony many times. But that's the way politics is, at some point the truth comes to light. Listen, we're not here to make a sterile opposition. We have said so on all matters, and I will say this today to what we are talking about here. We are here to propose concrete solutions, with arguments, for the good of the country and, above all, for the good of our Greeks, our fellow citizens, Mr Minister, who have endured so much and continue to endure with dignity - you see them, the Greek people are not kneeling - and for the good of all those who have left our country and are now abroad. And in particular now with Turkey that continues to threaten, which continues to claim unbelievable, it is more than necessary, and we must, as a country, have an integrated, firm policy on all fronts in order to defend whom else? National interest. No one denies that we must strengthen our country's image abroad, strengthen its geopolitical position. And in this context, such agreements that you are bringing here today, first of all, are not negative. But be careful. When we make a deal, we should not only give, we should take it. And not only should we be imposed, but we should also be imposed. Of course we have rights. With one word, there's reciprocity. That's what we're asking, and that's what we want. And I'll ask you two - three questions. Tell me, really, what is it worth in the final state, when it is left on paper only or when its rigour is exhausted on the back of the Greeks? What is the state's value when it makes some agreements? When he introduces a few effects? When he signs a few EOZs? When he declares a partial alliance? It's all part of it. What is this state of value? And because you celebrate - and I go there - with exploratory contacts with Turkey as a great success, we hope not to see one way or another in the Aegean. You will bring, you know, in a very difficult position, in a temperate position, apart from Greece and the Greek citizens, you will also be in a very difficult position here, the patriots of your party. You will have them sign what they condemned in the words for years. Because else your political rhetoric and your act and signature. Your patriots, Minister, who, at the congresses for Macedonia, had put on traditional uniforms, but then continued on to SYRIZA's "proud" agreement for the Prespecies and you are also guarantors now of this agreement. The patriots who now support co-existence and exploratory research, you who disagree with the exploratory - and I address the New Democracy colleagues - what are you going to do? Do you support this effort? Are you in favour or against? You need to be clear. Will you resign, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, or will you continue to support the government? Because I see pluralism in you. We're clear. We won't apologise for you. We have our positions, we honour the last vote that the Greek people gave to the Greek Solution and we are working for them here. And we're clear: You don't have a dialogue when they claim your home. It's over and out. How many times should we repeat this in order to understand it? To put an immediate end to the plan of the Aegean national laundering in the Turks inspired by the government. Because that's what you're doing. And you know, Minister, and gentlemen of the New Democracy, what did we do the other day? It was also mentioned by the President of the Greek Solution yesterday by a written statement. We have blocked the only powerful 'nuclear' weapon available to us in relation to the Turks, sanctions. That's what we did with the investigatives we're starting. We dismissed it, destroyed it, dismantled it. Penalise, tombstone! We said that. And I cannot comment on the front page of your German friends in the big newspaper 'FRANKFORTER ALLGE', which says? Berlin believes, Minister, that Greek positions are silky! And you still insist pro-German. The Germans come out and say that what Greece claims - Greece does not claim anything, wants what International Law provides, our positions are pillistic. We insist Greek and national as many decompression valves as you put in. See Samaras. You don't know what you want right now. So to understand, you're in favor of investigatives? Are you in favour of dialogue? Are you in favor of resentment? Are you in favor of ELMEP? Are you in favour of co-existence? Are you in favour of Mrs Bakoyannis, Mr Rosaki and the others who support these or are you with Samaras saying something else, what the Greek Solution has been saying for so long? Tell us. Listen, it's not about your smuggling or your pussy. It's your thing. We have clear positions. And if, as you say, and we do not disagree, you are patriots, come here, Minister, bring the agreements, the sanctions with Skopje - because they were, and will be Skopje, you are now saying them - bring the sanctions here to measure and be weighed. Measuring and weighing, who will vote for the agreements, which neo-democratic MPs will put their signature under a ratification of an agreement that says "North Macedonia". Bring them in, see who the patriots are and who they aren't. Bring them in. Come here the Macedonians mainly and the other patriotic MPs, who I say are all patriots of the New Democracy, and sign the proposal for an examination of the Greek Solution to become thirty signatures, to come to this House. Bring to prove to them that you love Greece, see what happened with the Kotzia case.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u19	Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u20	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm hanging up with this. In the end, however, to keep people from worrying, to tell the truth, you will still find a support. Here's the support: SYRIZA. SYRIZA agrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u21	But now close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u22	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Here's your support. You'll say yes to the investigative, you'll say yes to The Hague, together you'll go hand in hand with SYRIZA. Would you allow me a journalism class as a journalist and a professor I've been for years? I shall refer to the issue of banning demonstrations, to see how the world is being manipulated by the media. And I'm ending up with this. I will not go into the substance of the matter, Mr President, whether or not the demonstrations were banned for a week. We have expressed that, in the midst of a pandemic, the whole world must respect the pain of the Greeks who are locked in their homes. I'm saying this. We were telling the children, Mr. President, in journalism's class how to present a story. Beating, we had an accident. How are you going to present the accident, Mr. President? You said: "A hundred and thirty passengers were killed ten." Shock, tragic and so forth. But you could have said: 'Great gospels, hundred and fifty alive, only ten died'! Now look over here. You're all protesting the protests tomorrow. There's the paper. It's the manipulation of society. "They relax the measures, the meetings of up to 100 people are allowed!" So we're not focusing on the fact that they forbid you to protest or make a protest, we say you can do up to a hundred people. This is how it is done - and I close with it - the manipulation of the world by the media and other much more important issues. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u23	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement will take the floor, Mr Michael Katrinis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is taking place in the wake of yesterday's exploratory events, for which we are of course waiting for official information on what was distributed, exploratory investigations which were interrupted in 2016 and which, from 2013 onwards, have been politically chosen by the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, Evangelos Venizelos and President of PASOK, have focused mainly on the issues of the Eastern Mediterranean and not unilaterally in the Aegean and the territorial waters, and I think that the current government and the previous one are also right in this strategy. Of course, there were no high expectations of a solution. Nevertheless, I think it is right to choose the resumption of the investigative agreement, although it is fragile. At the same time, Greece shields its defence strength with the renewal and modernisation of armaments programmes, defence cooperation with countries in the wider region or with strategic allies, such as France, which must at some point also be informed of the official proposal and any response by the government. Our country is a force of deterrent power, respects international law and obviously prejudges the path of diplomacy. That is why he has to enter into alliances and diplomatic partnerships with several countries. I think that this design also includes energy diplomacy, because the energy map of the region is redesigned with our country trying to upgrade its own role as an energy hub from the east to the west and from the south to the north. In this direction, we also consider the adoption of the Forum for natural gas for the south-western Mediterranean to be a legal basis with ratification by Greece. I think that the proposal put forward by Mr Arvanitides to turn into an energy forum can actually give a political role and develop this whole initiative into a factor of stabilisation in the wider region. Speaking of strategy, we need to see what strategy has been adopted since 2010 on the PASOK Government and continues to this day. The central pillar, therefore, of the PASOK patriotic and strategic energy sector was the design and implementation of a series of gas pipelines with an obvious objective, firstly, the upgrading of the country's international energy role, secondly, the maximisation of energy security and, of course, the multiple and alternative energy sources. Thus, too many infrastructures and new pipelines were integrated and funded as projects of common European interest, and so new sources of supply were provided, which gives the country a powerful diplomatic weapon to defend and promote Greek interests. It was mentioned by our rapporteur and the battle won for the implementation of the TAP and the integration of EastMed and the upgrading of the LNG infrastructure of Revithousa and integration of the unit's twin project in Alexandroupolis. And within all of this, of course, we also have the launch of the implementation of the IGB pipeline that we are currently establishing as an initial part of the VERTICAL CORRIDOR which will cross the Balkans and Hungary, despite the temporary withdrawal of the Hungarian side. The geopolitical importance of the IGB for Greece is enormous. This is a unique access from Southeast Europe to new sources of gas. Greece is now the gateway to the Balkans. Through the vertical corridor, our country becomes an integral link to energy supply for Romania and Hungary and strengthens the country's participation in the development of a regional gas market, and perhaps any initiatives by commercial companies are favoured to take market shares. So we have security of energy supply, the strengthening of healthy competition for the benefit of citizens, the integration of a regional energy market, the geopolitical upgrading of the country and the elimination of risks due to the crisis, the maturation of markets, the attraction of investments. All of this can be included in the pipeline's advantages. So what did PASOK do about this pipeline that we are discussing today? In 2011, a pipeline company is established by the DEPA, ‘EDISON’ and the Bulgarian company ‘BEH’. In June 2011, the PASOK Government alone, under Article 176 of Law 4001, IGB is characterised as a national project of public interest. Continuing to this policy, Minister Yiannis Maniatis, a PASOK official, incorporates the IGB pipeline in September 2013 into projects of common European interest and in October signs environmental licensing of the pipeline. He was mentioned by George Arvanitides, what the other governments did not do. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like, however, to conclude, Mr President, because I have listened to him and did not believe in my ears and he will have an interest in telling us - and I have not, of course, talked about what he said, that the New Democracy Government has as a front the development and development of the energy strategy and what he said is a success of Mr Samaras TAP and the forum - what he thinks of the last intervention of the former Prime Minister, but indeed of what he has said about the success of Karamanlis, the idea of the energy interconnection between Greece and Bulgaria. In fact, he put it in July 2009, when his predecessor Mr. Hatzidakis signed the memorandum. And it will be interesting if Mr. Skreka were in the position of Mr. Hatzidakis to ask him to tell us if we were going back in July 2009, to remember what the state of the country was, what the country's economy was, what the loan rate was, what the government said, which you said with such great enthusiasm, said it was that it was the one, which made the IGB pipeline. We are talking about 2009 with the deficit of 15.6%, instead of 6% declared by the government, a public debt of more than 300 billion, instead of 269 billion, a current trade deficit of 30 billion, with the growth rate being negative, something unprecedented in world economics and, of course, budget expenditure increased by 17%. You'll tell me why I remember all this now in this conversation. But the former Minister of Finance, Mr. Aloskoufis, with his article in the newspaper "TA SA" mentioned the historical cycles of the Greek economy. In fact, in the third title, which runs it from the end of the civil war to the present day, positively includes the accession of Greece to the European Union in '81, but not the accession of Greece to EMU and to the negative ones, the great economic slowdown following accession to the European Union in 1981, which, incidentally, coincides with the start of the PASOK Governments. In the negative, however, it does not include the fiscal derailment of the five years 2004-2009 which led to international financial control that remains to date. Why am I talking about international financial control? Because the former Minister of New Democracy himself says that we had economic stability with the imposition of international financial control in 1898. If we look at the Bank of Greece's staff document on 6 October 2019, it points out that on the basis of the current figures and developments, as well as the apparent prospects, we are faced with an unprecedented financial derailment. And it concludes by saying that the decisions taken from the beginning of the year to now, on expenditure, are not only consistent with any effort to contain expenditure, but are moving in the opposite direction. Because Mr. Horsescoufs in the economics and successes of the country...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u25	We're not going to do an analysis now, what Mr. Horsescoof said. We should hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u26	I shall conclude, Mr President. I know it's a sensitive matter for you too. But you will allow me to speak for one more minute about the time the other Members have had. So because the then Minister for Finance has failed to mention EMU as a great success in the country's economy, I would like to recall and end with it, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance - that it is the same in January 2008 that the Greek economy is shielded by the policy implemented by the country. It is the same one who in December 2008 invaded the former Prime Minister, Mr Simitis, whose great success in joining EMU failed to mention the day before yesterday, saying that he was in danger of talking about Greece's appeal to the International Monetary Fund. In fact, he concluded by saying that on the PASOK planet you can - he says - do not give an account or wait for the next one to pay it. Because the Greek people paid him the bill and his political account, PASOK paid him one-sidedly with the difficult decisions he had to make, I would like to say to his predecessor Mr. Stakouras and his colleague at the Athens University of Economics to be a little more careful when he reverts to history, wishing that he would not teach his students by falsifying the historical facts, as he did as Minister of Finance, falsifying the financial data and exposing the country to the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u27	Please, come and make the Step. Do you still believe, my dear, Mr Katrin - I say this because it is my personal view - that there is EMU, economic and monetary union in Europe? I see only one violent NEI, namely a violent monetary union. This was adopted by the European Parliament on 2 May 1998. I wish it were EMU.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u28	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u29	We'll do it when I'm downstairs so I can answer it. For me EMU has never existed, not for Greece, but for the whole of Europe. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Georgios Karugalos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u30	You are not wrong, Mr President, but this is another debate. I would first like to wish the Minister a success in taking up his duties and congratulating him. Congratulations, however, I also owe the rapporteur-in-Office of the New Democracy for his delicate sense of political humor, accusing us of bilingualism on tomorrow's not very covert threats to Mr Samaras and to the hostage political operation in which he is trying to put the Prime Minister. I must, before going to the essence of my position, refer also to the political fact of the day, the ban on concentrations for the next seven days, obviously in the face of the concentration of protests announced against the anti-constitutional and anti-democratic tendencies of the government in the field of higher education. A panic movement, which has nothing to do with the protection of public health, has been characterized by the epidemiological teacher of Linos, who, on account of his knowledge, knows what needs to be done to protect from the pandemic and what needs to be done to protect democracy. In fact, the Government of New Democracy by an anti-constitutional decision is trying to protect itself from the consequences of another anti-constitutional choice which affects the self-government of universities. Why is this a sense of humor to be blamed by the New Democracy for contradictions, whilst setting out the need to support projects that we have reached their conclusion and which constitute our own policy with the added need to protect the environment? Are we peculiar? Israel, ladies and gentlemen, voted in favour of EastMed Gas Forum before us, but also expressing reservations about the lack of a clear commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the production processes for the transport and use of natural gas. As our rapporteur has said in detail, the issues of climate neutrality must be at the table in terms of practical implementation of both these important projects. As to the criticism we have heard from the side of Mera25, I have to say that I listen to it with caution. But natural gas is useful in the transition towards full carbonisation. And just as we do not change the fleet of all conventional cars with electrics in one day, we must take the necessary measures to weigh both the geopolitical reasons behind these projects and the economic priorities together with the need to protect the environment. As far as IGB is concerned, I think it is clear. It also magnifies our country's economic stigma in the Balkans and strengthens our role as a natural gas hub in the region as a whole. More generally, both of these projects we are discussing strengthen the role of Greece as an energy hub. Also, at European level, they strengthen the European Union's energy autonomy, diversifying the relevant energy sources and pipelines. EastMed Gas Forum is part of the general policy that we have developed with tripartite cooperation in the Eastern Mediterranean. We insisted - beware - and Palestine should be among the contracting parties, precisely because we believe that all the countries of the eastern Mediterranean have participated in this project. Neither Turkey nor Turkey have been excluded from this exercise. Indeed - and I would like you to notice - the important political agreement in Israel on the promotion of the EastMed pipeline in the presence of the Foreign Minister, Mr Pompeo - on the very next day - I travelled to Antalya to meet my counterpart, Mr Tsavosoglu, with the message that Turkey has a place in the energy equation of the Eastern Mediterranean on a condition, respect for International Law. This is our overall stance on relations with the neighbouring country. We must be careful about safeguarding our national interests. For example, we should be particularly vigilant in interconnecting EastMed Gas Forum with the Turkish inspiration for a multilateral conference in the eastern Mediterranean. We must not allow this to become, as the Turkish side seeks, a de facto way of legalising the illegal Turkish Cypriot administration at a time when the Cyprus issue is being tested and, unfortunately, Mr Mitsotakis was the first Greek Prime Minister to raise no similar issue in his speech to the UN General Assembly. Let me, with your tolerance, also mention the exploratory which is the other major theme of the days. We have supported and supported the resumption of the investigative contacts, because dialogue is the only way to resolve our dispute with Turkey. We have pointed out, of course, that they are starting to be undermined by Mr Mitsotakis' failure to achieve a framework of sanctions that will guarantee that Turkey will seriously discuss and will not resort to threats of violence again. We expect information on what happened in that first round, in the first sixty-first round, and we have again told the Government that defensive tactics are not enough. Of course, all the Greek governments - and I hope today too - do not discuss the enlargement of an agenda on the issues of sovereignty. But that's not good enough. We must pursue an honest agreement, and the government must tell us what the intermediate objectives are, what the tactics it will take to promote this objective. It should not be viewed as failure, the shipwreck of explorers and simply trying to place it better in the blame game that follows. Of course, Mr. Mitsotakis must prove that he is not a hostage by Mr. Samaras. I have already tabled a topical question today by asking the Minister of Foreign Affairs when the memorials with Northern Macedonia will be brought to a vote in the House, because if there is any reason other than Mr Samaras' opposition to their statement, it is important that the people's delegation and the Greek people should also know about it. The important thing, however, is what will happen from now on in the context of a national strategy, which is missing. So we ask the government not just to inform us, but to tell us what the next steps are in the investigative process. We're not going to be a new Republic of the Prespecies Period. We won't be practicing demagogy. We want to support the formation of a national position and the national front that it needs towards Turkey. But it is the government that has to tell us how it thinks about it and does not confirm the hostages which I said before by a first step, the Council of Political Heads. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "The integrated maritime policy in the island area, provisions for compliance with international shipping obligations and the upgrading of L.S. - EL.AKEY. and specific arrangements for digitisation and in general strengthening the competitiveness of Greek shipping in the post-COVID era’ We will close with the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mrs Marillena Soulis - Vilialis. I don't know if that's your maiden speech, my colleague. Either way, I wish you every success!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for a year now we have been afflicted by a murder pandemic that has cost human lives, which has stopped the economic cycle and social activity and has kept us at home. It is incomprehensible for me to be the subject of party exploitation because thousands of people are not allowed to retransmission. So what was the case so far? Were they all out at gatherings? Didn't we make individual decisions depending on the concentration? Now, according to the decision of the Chief of Police, the recommendation from 22-01-2021 of the National Committee for the Protection of Public Health is mentioned, proposing this one hundred-person limit. It is not, therefore, a question of democracy, it is a question of public health alone. As far as exploratory research is concerned, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and our Government, which is responsible for the development of our foreign policy, have clearly and clearly placed themselves on the subject of exploratory contacts with the neighbouring country both internally and with all of us, as well as with our neighbours. So there is nothing else to add to the substance. We will continue to act with national confidence and seriousness in defending our national interests. This is what Greek society expects us to do and that is what we are doing. Today we are called upon to ratify two agreements of high importance for the upgrading of our country's geo energy position, two sanctions which demonstrate our commitment to the principles of good regional cooperation between the states in our region that demonstrate our country's practical commitment to peaceful coexistence, with a view to the well-being and progress of all citizens. At the same time, however, the current sanctions are also a clear answer - an invitation to all the states that are still trapped in inexpensive practices of the past and who find it difficult to recognise that this political path is a one-way path towards a future of security and stability, a path which, of course, requires mutual responsibility and openness, in accordance with the rules and values of the European acquis. But there is no other way, and it will be a good thing, even slowly, for certain states to respond positively to the challenges of the times. With the first ratification for the IGB pipeline, its interconnection with the TAP interconnector, that is the European option to drive the southern road, but also with the new floating terminal of liquefied natural gas in Alexandroupolis, we create an important grid of energy infrastructure that passes through Greek territory. The ratification of the Eastern Mediterranean Natural Gas Forum (EMGF), the second ratification we are debating today, between our country and another six countries - and we are, in fact, the fifth ratification, which is the number that sets out and the establishment of the Forum - indicates a good diplomatic path to the exploitation of existing and future energy resources in an important regional energy market. Therefore, we are clearly responding to three major challenges of our geo-energy strategy. Firstly, the emergence of Greece in a transit hub of energy sources, secondly, the increase in the safety of our energy supply through diversification of natural gas sources and, thirdly, the consolidation of our intention to exercise our sovereign rights, namely the exploration and exploitation of energy sources in maritime areas, always according to International Law. Apart from the obvious benefits, however, especially for our north-easters by creating new jobs and reduced energy costs, we must mention and inform citizens of the enormous importance of an effective geo-energy strategy. I understand that it may not be a subject that focuses on news reports or attracts people's attention, but it must be made clear that there is a key element in the structure of international relations and indirectly affects every area of our economic and social life, which can even reach dissatisfaction or conflict between states. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why, when we talk about energy security, we are not only talking about its technical definition, according to the International Energy Agency, namely about the uninterrupted availability of energy sources at affordable prices, but also about a complex framework of transnational geostrategic relations. If we look at the present geopolitical situation, we see that this is characterised by global and regional energy changes. And I'll explain what I mean. The increasing demand for energy in particular in countries such as China and India remains. Europe's effort to diversify sources of supply so that we do not face energy crises, such as the crisis that Ukraine and Russia faced in 2006 and 2009, remains. The rise of the United States of America as a global energy player by exploiting shale gas and oil, which resulted in a large supply of liquefied natural gas, is a reality. Russia's firm aim to maintain Europe's energy supply channels remains. However, the most recognised environmental risks to our planet from the extensive use of hydrocarbons also create a geostrategic framework that directly affects the geo-economic, geo-economic and geo-political situation of our region and not just our region. So we have to be clear. The exploitation of the country's energy prospects is not only a matter of geo-energy security, but also a matter of strengthening the country's geopolitical power. The energy space is an area that affects the strategy of our political and economic decisions, as is of course the case for other states. Greece, firmly committed to the principles of the European Energy Strategy to diversify the sources of supply in the short term, and to achieving our energy autonomy through environmentally friendly alternatives of energy, is moving firmly in this direction. We have incorporated a green environmental footprint into every action taken by our development process. We announced the new National Energy and Climate Plan, which specialises our strategy to increase the penetration of RES by 35% of the final energy consumption by 2030. Within this plan there are 'green' investments of EUR 44 billion over a decade. The Prime Minister yesterday visited the RIS said that 1/3 of the resources of the Recovery Fund are related to energy and environment actions. A characteristic example is the fair development transition of Western Macedonia and Megalopolis through liberation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u33	Madam President, you will have to finish slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u34	I shall conclude, Mr President, although a great deal has been said in the committees. Really, you know, I can't leave this unanswered. I am impressed by the speed with which SYRIZA colleagues forget their environmental sensitivities when it comes to party benefits. I will only conclude by saying that the framework of our practice has a name called "effective" and is the way our Government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis follow with responsibility, consistency and speed. Ladies and gentlemen, the two sanctions, as has been extremely developed by our rapporteur and by the committee and here, promote the country's geo-energy upgrading in a methodical and strategic manner. We are ready to take advantage of our energy potential for the benefit of all citizens. As a peaceful force for stability we are working with all states to create mutually beneficial relations in an area that has historically been an easy field of competition and conflict. At the same time, however, with realism and national self-confidence, we send out a message of geopolitical power, that Greece was, is, is and will be actively present in all geo-energy changes, a message that no one should misinterpret, because Greece is strong and will become stronger, just as it is appropriate in its historical course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u35	We'll close the meeting with the Minister's speech, Mr. Screka. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, there are changes in the energy sector, both in Greece and on the planet. One example: just ten years ago, in 2010, lignite's participation in the electricity production of our country was about 40% -45%. Today this amount is often lower than 20%. On an annual basis it's about 20%. So we have only reduced, within ten years, over 50% lignite electricity. Why is that so, and why is what I'm saying important? What is the problem that we are now called upon to face as citizens of the world and as people living on the planet earth? The fact that we have the phenomenon of climate change and the consequences that this causes, which you mentioned earlier and mentioned by many colleagues as a climate crisis and is a reality. What does climate change mean? It's just an increase in the average temperature of the planet. Where does this increase in average temperature come from? The main cause is ‘carbon dioxide emissions’. When do we emit carbon dioxide? Anything we capture in our hands, whatever we wear as clothes, whatever we see, or there is next to us, which is made by man, to produce has emit carbon dioxide. The main source of carbon dioxide emissions is fossil fuel generation. Immediately afterwards, the transport comes, after the bacteria, then the industry and the agricultural sector in the end. So what's the planet's target, where our country, of course, is involved in the share we're given? To reduce carbon dioxide emissions. How's that gonna happen? Changing, for example, the main cause of carbon dioxide emissions, which is electricity generation, the mixture of energy we are using. How? By putting more renewable energy into the system, using sun, air and sea - why not? - and geothermality. When you use fossil fuel, you produce carbon dioxide. As the word says, fossil fuels are mineral and are finite, in the sense that they are exhausted. So using renewable energy sources more and more to the energy mix of the country and the planet you achieve two things. Firstly, ensuring that the next generations of mankind also have power, they will have electricity, so that the planet can function and function, and secondly, you succeed in reducing the cause of climate change as well. Can we go today, at one moment in one night, from the use of fossil fuels, whether it is lignite, oil, or natural gas, to renewable energy sources? At the moment technically it is not possible. We'd like to. Does Greece, the Greek Government have a strategy for carbonisation, for reducing carbon dioxide emissions, for the 'drug' of our national economy, for the production base, for reducing the household environmental footprint? Of course it does. Did the previous government have one? Of course he didn't. And how does that prove? Of course, it is not proven by what I am saying or by what someone else says from another party or the Civic Opposition today, but it is demonstrated by what we are writing, whether we as a government now or the previous SYRIZA government. Where are these captured? The National Energy and Climate Plan. The plan of SYRIZA, the government, the Greek government when SYRIZA, the National Plan on Energy and Climate, said about 2040 about the energy mix of the country? Let me tell you what he said and you can read it, it's posted online. He said in 2040 we will have in Greece 1.3 GW of installed power, which will burn lignite to produce electricity. And what did he say about gas? He was talking about gas that in 2040 we would have 4.6 GW installed power, producing electricity from natural gas. And how much was that in 2016, where did SYRIZA rule? It was 3,9 GW. Since 2016, SYRIZA has been running until 2040, which was then planned by the government of SYRIZA, the country's energy mix, according to SYRIZA, if SYRIZA continued to govern, would also increase the participation of natural gas in the country's electricity generation, in the energy mix of the country. What did the New Democracy Government do with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has just taken over the rule of this place? He said that we would not produce lignite electricity, not in 2040 that SYRIZA would probably produce, not in 2050 - I do not know when SYRIZA said - but only in 2028, much earlier than any other European country using lignite in its energy mix, much earlier than Poland, much earlier than Germany. Ours. So yes, the current government has a plan and it is the government that really cares about the environment, but also about the next generations of Greeks and not just. Because if our plan is to be drawn, we've captured it and implemented it. How many chimneys did we close the eighteen months? Two lignite chimneys were closed, they stopped smoking, within the first fifteen months of our government and two other chimneys are scheduled to close in the next few months, in 2021. That is how it turns out - and it is not words, it is deeds - that the Government of Mr Mitsotakis is really a government that not just respects the environment, not just speaks of the environment, but does, act, works to protect the environment. We are, of course, working at the same time, so that this transition can be a fair transition. Because some people must also find jobs, which will probably be affected by closing plants and we have made a serious plan for how we can in those regions affected, the lignite regions, replace jobs from exploiting lignite with jobs as high as those that are paid, good jobs, through economic activities that are now environmentally friendly and focused in those areas, and not just. So all that we are discussing here in this House, and the two agreements we have brought together, are aimed at ensuring that all this transitional period that is needed to pass from a high share of fossil fuels to a small and at the end of a zero share of fossil fuels in the energy mix and the use of 100% renewable energy, throughout this period we will not have a problem with a break in electricity, that we will at the same time ensure the country's energy adequacy, energy security and energy independence. How do we achieve this? Converting Greece from one, I would say, an energy island to an energy hub, that is, turning Greece into a country which does not have large and abundant links with neighbouring countries to the north and to the south, ensuring what I have said to you, namely energy security, energy independence, ensuring and differentiation in the supply of fossil fuels, so that we can achieve what I have said and, of course, achieve competitive prices. What's more polluting today? The lignite. Immediately afterwards, what's less of a polluter? The use of oil. The less polluting fossil fuel, which ejects pollutants with up to 1/3 of the pollutants released by a lignite plant, is natural gas. That is why I am addressing the Members who have judged them unfairly, I believe, this important and visionary plan that we have presented and which we want to implement, which turns Greece into an energy hub, where natural gas will pass through various sources, either through natural pipelines, as happened with the TAP, either now, which we want with a turn to send, taking advantage of the TAP, natural gas to the north, but also building infrastructure, such as the water tank of liquefied natural gas in Alexandroupolis, such as the upgrading of Rethypsia, as is probably an underground tank that has a strategic role and we will be able there to have strategic gas reserves in case we need it. All of this helps to achieve the objective that I mentioned before. That is why I call on you to vote for all of this, because in this way we support Greece and not just with regard to the geopolitical and geostrategic role, but with regard to the real economy and ultimately the household pocket. We are introducing two articles in this bill which we are asking to vote in favour and thus to ratify. One relates to the Greek-Bulgarian vertical gas pipeline, Greece-Bulgaria, the so-called IGB. The second is an intergovernmental agreement, the establishment of an international organisation, the Natural Gas Agency in the Eastern Mediterranean EastMed Gas Forum. Both articles and these two agreements are two tangible examples of the dynamics that I described to you. I do not want to say much about what it means to our Government and how the governments of the New Democracy always had as a priority and forefront the development of energy policy and as a lever for sustainable development, but also as the arm of an extroverted diplomacy. I will repeat that the idea of building this Greek-Bulgarian pipeline had begun since 2009, since Christos Folias and with the signature in April 2009 of a memorandum of cooperation signed by my predecessor, Kostis Hadjidakis, who was then Minister of Energy and had an important role in promoting this pipeline. They were then guaranteed, in 2009, EUR 45 million by the European Union. Today they were used and constituted 20% of the construction. Also, later, the New Democracy Government, with Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, had achieved a strategic change in the road - which, from some centres, was promoted - by the TAP, the gas pipeline carrying caspian gas from Azerbaijan to Europe. They wanted the pipeline to cross over our northern border, from the northern countries, from our northern neighbours. Eventually, then, we managed to cross the pipeline through Greece and cross it. How many Greeks worked during the construction of this pipeline? How many areas are they going to take natural gas from the TAR pipeline, which might not be able to take natural gas differently? Of course, because it has been heard and because we are talking about gas pipelines, which are a fossil fuel - as I said - finite, to say that these pipelines and, as far as the distribution network is concerned, they will not turn. You see, hydrogen's coming too. Many, more and more, are today discussing that we will probably be able to exploit this network, which we have invested hundreds of millions of euros today. It will not be lost, when at some point in the end of the future, after twenty - thirty years - we do not know exactly, no one can count - natural gas will flow into these pipelines. Then, however, these ducts may fill and transport hydrogen. It is therefore infrastructural, which is not lost and must be done. That's why we come today and we support their construction. Let us say that after the 2019 elections and until October 2019 the intergovernmental agreement, which we are currently bringing to ratification, had been signed. We are ambitious to complete the construction of the project by the end of 2021. Today it has been completed at 52%, with 40% of the pipeline already subsidized, so its construction is progressing. The fact that we have brought the Memorandum of Cooperation to ratification today did not prevent the pipeline from starting and building. The economic and commercial benefits I have already analysed how important they are for Greece and for Greek businesses. Many of the materials we use, such as the pipeline itself, are made by Greek business. So Greek workers and probably well paid are those who are working today to build this pipeline, which is currently located at our northern border. The Greek-Bulgarian pipeline also plays an important role. Apart from the fact that IGB can be exploited and transported from the south to the north of the casting gas, since it is connected to the TAP pipeline, it will also be able to carry gas that will be implemented in the water tank, at the terminal in Alexandroupolis. What does that mean? Eventually, Greece becomes a gas-transport hub, where through it it will not only pass natural gas coming from the Caspian Sea, but natural gas that can come from anywhere in the world, through ships carrying liquefied gas. So it's an integrated plan. I repeat that it started its design in 2009. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] As far as the Eastern Mediterranean forum for natural gas is concerned, it is very important that it brings near countries which have previously had conflicting interests, but have often been on the other side. It brings them together, they discuss, always, to ensure what we have said, the gas, which we need as a transitional fuel. Kostis Hatzidakis had worked very hard. It had started as an idea through the cooperation of Greece - Egypt. Today Egypt, Palestine, Israel, Cyprus, Jordan, Greece and Italy are involved. Let us say - and we must admit - that this was implemented through a meeting that had been held in the government of SYRIZA, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and helped to move forward and implement this idea that we are coming today to ratify with this international agreement. What are the objectives of this forum? It supports the creation of a regional gas market, for the benefit of naturally the countries that form the forum, the environmental sustainability of research, production and transport, and the construction of natural gas infrastructures, and, of course, the promotion under international law, better understanding, interdependence and the potential benefits of cooperation between the members of this forum. I have to say that through this forum, this cooperation, it is also promoted to help the consumer countries, namely those who are recipients of natural gas, to meet their needs and with the transit countries to shape the more general gas policies in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean, thus allowing sustainable cooperation and partnership between the key players in the value chain in the gas market. That is why both these agreements promote and ensure the need, which is energy security, our country's energy adequacy, our country's energy independence, with competitive energy prices and by ensuring this transitional period from tomorrow to tomorrow, we call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote for and ratify today's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u37	Good morning, me too. Thank you very much, Minister. Iron! Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the articles and the entire draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘(a) Repeal of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Bulgaria on the Greek-Bulgaria Interconnector (IGB Project) and (b) Settlement of the Statute (Creation) of the Eastern Mediterranean Natural Gas Forum (EMGF)’. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u39	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u40	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘(a) Repeal of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Bulgaria on the pipeline between Greece and Bulgaria (IGB Project) and (b) Clearance of the Statute of the Natural Gas Forum of the Eastern Mediterranean (EMGF)’ was accepted by a majority single on the principle, the articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u42	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-26-S1-commons.u43	With the consent of the House at 12.17 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 27 January 2021, at 9 a.m., on the subject of the proceedings of the House: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and b) legislative work, in accordance with the supplementary agenda.
