ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "For the Protection of Labour - Establishment of an Independent Labour Inspection Authority" - Settlement of the Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation for the Elimination of Violence and Harassment in the World of Work - Clearing of the Convention 187 of the International Labour Organisation on the Framework for the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work - Incorporation of Directive (EU) 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the balance between professional and private life". Mr. George Logiadis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I remember my father saying to me: 'A society is like a net, like a chain, with its weakest link'. This weakest link must be strengthened, supported and developed. By definition, Labour Law protects the weakest, i.e. the worker and I speak as an employer. A major mistake in today's draft law is that it treats both parties as equals the worker and the employer. Another problem is that, up to now, anyone who worked under a semi-employment scheme of less than eight hours a day should have continuous working hours. Now he'll be able to break six or four hours while he was working, in the day. The Labour Inspectorate has been devalued, there is not even to check that today's eighth day is in force. Not much more for what is set out in your current draft law. The Labour Inspectorate must be strengthened and not become an independent authority. Collective agreements must, of course, apply and apply to everyone so that there is no black and undeclared work, which creates unfair competition, destroys businesses and workers. If the worker is not happy he will not yield and in the end society is falling apart and degraded. Both the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, which stands in particular at the abolition of the eighth and Sunday holidays and the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, are contrary to this draft law. In the context of the memoranda you have signed because of overtaxation in order to achieve primary surpluses, any revenues are continuously reduced. When super-private debts, private and public debts, are cumulated, high taxes are choking productive investment and poverty is alternatively removed by many wage earners, it is impossible to protect themselves. In such a environment, deregulation of the labour market, for example, with individual contracts attempted by the government, further reduces the share of wages in national income. The reduction in the wage share also reduces overall demand. And the decline in total demand stimulates underdevelopment. We will have shallow entrepreneurship and low added value. Merra25 points out that no labour law will protect the job unless it is accompanied by debt haircuts. With the further reduction of labour costs aimed at the draft law, the fifth memorandum is already here. It had to be done exactly the opposite. Education and support for workers, stable working framework, decent final income available. The state with its policies must grow the pie and not shrink it and create social tensions. In conclusion, I would also like to refer to tourism as a Member of the House in our heavy industry. The Hotel Officers' Association of Heraklion Prefecture on 13-21 this year signed with the Heraklion Hotel Association the new local collective labour contract to ensure the conditions for the remuneration and work of the hotel staff. With a joint request from workers and employers to the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, they asked for the declaration of the new local collective labour agreement as generally compulsory, thus avoiding negative impacts on the competitiveness of the businesses that have to do with labour costs, on the one hand, on the one hand, to achieve fair support for the standard of living of the hotel workers whose vast majority work in the seasonal operating units of the prefecture and the whole of Greece. In repeated letters sent to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry's General Secretariat, as well as to the relevant directorates, there is so far no information about what will happen. They therefore request that the new local collective labour agreement be declared generally acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u3	And we thank Mr. Loyadis. The floor is now, after the Stepma has been settled, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Pericles Mantas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, and what we did not hear from yesterday in this Chamber: a bill of an abortion, a working middle age, unpaid overtime, an eight-hour abolition, 'you will be paid off with the day off', a final blow to the world of work, a roadmap bill, a rehab of workers from their wages, a bill of commemoration. Are these just a few of the designations that opposition does for the bill we are discussing today and I really wonder if that is possible? Where did they find all this? Are we reading any more bills, gentlemen? Did Pharaoh’s seven wounds begin and some biblical destruction do we have in the country? Or are they drowning in their extremes and exaggerations once again? So no, ladies and gentlemen. Nothing dramatic happens at the place nor any mother of battles is given to the streets and pavements. The only battle given is between some spooked minds because the truth is that the time of lies is over, the time of toxicity, of division and blind hatred, and it's time we all have to tell truths. So you know, ladies and gentlemen, why are people no longer on the streets? Do you know why your society turns your back? Because they are fed up with your extremes and exaggerations, because the seasons of social discontent that were once butter on your bread and now you have no political weapons, you have no tools, you have no suggestions and no arguments, because you have finally proved that you have been a protest party on the upheaval and annihilation, in the form of corruption and anger, to become a government for three and a half years but always without a plan, without a political account, only with voices and complaints, as you do today, twisting every reform and discovering dragons where they do not exist. But society no longer listens to you because it seeks peace, smoothness, it seeks modesty, security, work for which we will be judged and weighed when the time comes and it will see if we have made their lives better, easier, richer, and not for the monstrous things you say, that people are supposed to be paid off. Of course we all understood what really bothered you in this bill. It was the blow that your own workers have been trying to rescue in every way, a small minority that forty years has learned to blackmail the social majority, a reactionary climate of few that has learned to be the boss and to keep the country back to the real working age and not the one you mean, so that evil conceived abusive and unfair union that a life kept the society back and that with this bill we put aside. Really, what else bothered you in today's bill? Is the upgrading of the Labour Inspectorate and its reliance on government power? Really? Do you consider that an independent control authority is a regression, is it a final blow to the world of work? Did the digital working card and the empowerment of the worker toward the employer bother you? Do you really believe what you're saying? So how do you imagine how to combat undeclared work? We all remember your criticism and question the previous government of the New Democracy of Antonis Samaras and the former Minister then Giannis Brutsis, when "ERGANI" and the fine of 10,500 euros for undeclared work was introduced. The undeclared work in February 2013, ladies and gentlemen, was at 42% and today with these two tools, you both fought them ruthlessly and as a government you applied them to the most. Have you been disturbed by new permits to parents and caregivers or by measures to combat violence and sexual harassment at the workplace? Did the right to disconnect? And that bothered you? Or is the equilibrium of dismissal payments for the workers? And that finds you opposing it? And you found the point where you were attracted to so-called opposition, the notorious arrangement of working time. You also took out an easy password "you will not be paid with a day off", supposedly you will be paid with a day off, over lies and conveniently forgot that the settlement has been in place for many years in our country. Really a middle-aged working man. What can we say now? And you hide from the fact that there is a European directive that supports this very regulation, a working time arrangement with individual contracts, at the initiative of the worker for the harmonisation of his professional and family life, while, of course, you also conceal the fact that such arrangements apply to Denmark, Finland and the Scandinavian countries which have them for social standards. You are forgetting the Netherlands and Luxembourg, where the same applies, and you are certainly not referring to Spain and Portugal, which the Socialists govern with the Left. And because the day-to-day story quickly started to disperse, you thought after the next stage, that the employer is saying the worker's stronger, so that there should be no individual contracts. The sloppyness of all her majesty, because you have, of course, forgotten that overtime in individual contracts is based. Why don't you ask us to abolish them? Obviously, these proposals cannot be severely criticised. For the last time, it is easy to adjust working time. It is easy for a worker who prefers to work more than Monday to Thursday and sit on Friday with his family. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute, Mr. President. It is easy for the student for his vacation or examination. It's easy for the mother who wants a day more to be with her children. What should we tell all of them? There's no syndicate, so you've been mishapped? Do you expect one to be set up so that you can build your life? Or should you choose a trade union-based job? I think these things don't make sense. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to everyone that today's bill is a great and positive part for the world of work in our country. The regulations it introduces are undoubtedly in the right direction. It is clear that it is our duty to support it so much in the vote, but above all to support it in its implementation in society, in practice, because we are here to improve citizens' lives and we must not let anything stand in the way of this commitment and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u5	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Themistoklis Himaras, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will today try to speak more on the basis of my personal experiences at all times on the basis of the conditions in real life and not, let me, imaginary and ideal subjects, as some colleagues have put them. I shall speak experientially because I have the luck of having worked for some decade as a private sector employee in large businesses. But at the same time I have the opportunity to speak as a small employer because after these ten years of working in the private sector I have set up my own company with a group of young people which I have been holding for the last fifteen years. With a group of appalling people, we worked hard, we swam across the stream of the memorial period, the period of overtaxation, and even today I cannot say for sure that we did. The truth is, we're struggling to stay upright. So I am listening to colleagues' positions these days and I wonder if they really know what is going on in the labour market. If I try to speak as a private worker, I'm sure I've worked for hundreds of hours. Sometimes I paid half the hours overtime from what I did and I said and thank you. But most of the time I didn't get paid for overtime. And it has to be heard clearly by the Step of the National Representation that most young people work ten hours a day and now that they are talking about and their contract is part-time. Others are paid in black the extra amount of their earnings, others are not paid at all. We need to see the causes. That is for two reasons: the first obvious reason is that there are unconscious employers out there, people who exploit the need for work, the need for the worker to survive. The second is based on excessive taxation and the high cost of insurance contributions. These two factors do not allow a business to remain alive. We often hear if it does not evade taxation and if a small professional does not declare the lawfulness of the exercise. The state's response to the case of the unconscious employer is simple and is one: control and lock-up. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. In the second case, however, the employer who is trying to avoid excessive tax and insurance claims will allow me to stand more. At this point I will speak as a small employer because the truth lies somewhere in the middle. And I explain: My fellow professionals say "if I invoice all my sales and I do not have part of them as black I will have to give more than 90% of the profits in the state. This way I cannot cover payroll, IKA, suppliers, checks, PPC and all of this. With the money that will be left, if they stay, I can't renew my shop, I can't repair a machine that will be damaged, I can't live my family." Who's gonna tell this employer he's wrong? Who's going to tell him that he's lying when the tax rate over the last decade was at 28% when he had to pay 100% of next year's tax at the same time? Who will tell him that it was because of the insurance law of Katrugalo, of the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, it was essentially a tax law that punished consistent and honest professionals for their honesty and consistency. Mr Polakis has mentioned it very typically that "we lost the election because we did bad things in the middle class". He described it very well. It is true, therefore, that today we are talking about 'founded' arguments. "He was" and in a short time, ladies and gentlemen, he will not have because the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis knows what I described to you before and does not live in the hollow proclamations and slogans. Because this government, despite the difficulties of the pandemic, systematically reduces taxation from 28% to 22%, from 22% to 9% of the professionals for the first 10,000 euros, has been decoupling insurance contributions from professionals' income, and has finally closed the ferry door to the demonization of profits and business success. Because this government knows that the truth of the paradox and unintentional illegality lies in the middle, and employers know that when taxes are reduced and allow them to survive and ensure even a small business profit they will not risk doing so with the audit authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill updates labour legislation, which has largely not changed since 1982 when there was no internet, teleworking, the structure of Greek society and economy was very different. It is a coordinated effort to tackle the well-known problems of the labour market, such as unpaid overtime, non-transparency objections to unionism, the phenomenon of violence and harassment at work, i.e. all modern problems for workers and especially for women and young people. In today's bill, the truth is that none of the provisions are dissatisfied with the right to strike, no provision is abolished in the eighth hour. We import the digital working card as a shield for the protection of the eighth and its overtime. Allow me, Minister, only if we ensure the correct implementation of the digital card we have a substantial effect. We must be honest here. That's where we'll be judged at the end of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, the country has turned its engines on to move forward on the modern European road. No logic of yesterday that brought us a step before bankruptcy, no regressive perception and, above all, no ideological struggling for the inner part has the right to deprive the Greeks and Greeks of a country that is modern, functional, effective. The train called Greece will go forward. If you want to board, you board. Otherwise you'll be left behind alone, trapped in anachronistic policies. The country doesn't want and won't wait any longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u7	We are also grateful to Mr Himara and to him for the consistency in time. The speaker of the New Democracy MEP Mrs Silina Skondra has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the show that the Opposition started before we even read the bill that we have been discussing and continued throughout the previous period is culminating in this House for impressive and doro. "Working Middle Ages", "Ager", "Black Page at Work", bad optional criticism, catastrophe and falsehood about the arrangements introduced by our Minister Kostis Hatzidakis. I would like to ask you: are you experiencing a parallel reality? You don't live in this country? All of you who are allegedly fighting for workers' rights and who, instead of today supporting solutions that ensure their positions, are once again opposed to reforms. Do you think at work it should not change anything? Everything going well? Don't you know that in the private sector eight hours often there's only one card? Don't you know cases where overtime stays unpaid? Do women and young people not suffer on the labour market in particular? Don't you know a bunch of undeclared work incidents? Two things happen: or you don't know them so you're wrong to take part in this debate or you know them, but you don't want them to change because you just don't care. Because if you were interested in or would have corrected them for four and a half years, gentlemen of the Officership, or in the preparation of the bill, you would have participated constructively, in clear and realistic proposals. Instead, voices without substance and content. You react to the real protection of workers, you react to measures that stimulate competitiveness, you react to the development of the national economy. The injustices must be eliminated, ladies and gentlemen, and the anachronistic arrangements must be replaced. It is better known than all the workers who are experiencing the real working conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, the national framework of labour legislation is adapted to best European practices. The digital working card, introduced by the PASOK Government, was first piloted in 2010. It was GSEE's constant request. What do you disagree with, since black work and undeclared overtime are effectively dealt with and that today is nowhere to be seen? We introduce leave for parents, fourteen days for new fathers and the sponsored by the OAED two-month parental leave for both parents. We provide protection to young fathers with a six-month ban on childbirth. You misinform society for the eighth hour. First of all, the eight hours worked per week are not abolished and they remain forty. The eight hours can be exceeded in two ways: by overtime or by settling. For overtime we are clear about what is happening and what is not the case. It's not true that overtime is paid off. That's what SYRIZA says, but he's lying. Overtime from ninety-six hours in industry and a hundred and twenty hours in services are growing annually in the fifty that is the average of the European Union. When workers exceed their working hours, they will pay their overtime with the expected increase. That's the reality. In addition, with the digital card we are establishing, overtime is actually recorded by preventing any possibility of questioning by any bad employer. We incorporate Directive 1158/2019, which was signed by SYRIZA. There you will find the working time arrangement and even individual contracts. You signed it, that is, gentlemen of SYRIZA. And we're making it clear what a setup means. In no case does the arrangement mean an increase in total working time, i.e. forty hours a week. It means that in these forty hours, instead of working on them in five days, you have the ability to cover them, for example, in four and the fifth day to make it available freely, as you need it. I'm going through the strike part. We are clearly respecting the democratic right to strike. To the same extent, however, we respect the rights and needs of all citizens, patients, workers who must go to their jobs, professionals, traders, small and medium-sized enterprises, consumers and the citizens who need to deal with their direct business. For all of these, we are introducing the obligation to provide a guaranteed service of general interest and prohibit the reintroduction of a strike that has been found illegal and abusive by justice. We are clearing up the blurred landscape in trade unionism, the financing of trade unions by employers and parties, the immunity of trade unionists who have raped other citizens or their colleagues. It is more obvious that you are responding, ladies and gentlemen, to your efforts to support your trade union partners who are affected by their privileges. We promote transparency, we introduce the new framework of protection and trade rights for workers on digital platforms. We are introducing measures to protect against invalid redundancies and the right to disconnect to telework. We declare the ILO Conventions 187 and 190, and preventive and repressive measures are taken to deal with violence and harassment and to ensure health and safety at work. Ladies and gentlemen, the Labour Protection Bill takes a big step forward. You're the ones who've been inspired by the past. By exercising politics with slogans, you're making bad criticism based on lies. We follow best practices in advanced European countries. We are pushing the Greek economy forward by facilitating growth, competitiveness and creating new jobs always with a key focus on the real and effective protection of workers. We live in the 21st century. The entire planet using digital services has evolved into a global village. The Labour Law in Greece has come to modernise, provide substantial protection for the worker, enables choices based on his needs and, at the same time, facilitate the competitiveness and development of our national economy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Skondra. He has the floor now, after the Step is settled, the MP of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Greek Parliament, which are early and early today, I would like to begin my speech on this draft law before I begin, to ask the Minister of Health to ask the Minister to provide political explanations for the management of the vaccine "AstraZeneca". Already, Mr Hatzidakis, I have too many messages from people asking for this question. They have been vaccinated for the first time with 'AstraZeneca', they are not more than sixty and they wonder what they should do. I read what the committee says, but these fronts - backwards create too many problems that for some people - right - are matters of life and death. I would therefore ask you not to leave the citizens to the mercy of the experts, but to explain. It needs a political interpretation, an explanation and a direction. You can't keep talking. The government today needs to talk to citizens who are upset. Now, I do not know whether the Qualified Opposition has chosen the policy of denouncing compulsory vaccination to health workers, but because such qualifications have been made public by its leader's interview, it should also be clarified whether, in its refusal to accept compulsory vaccination, it is generally referred to compulsory vaccination, which is not permitted by the warlords of the World Health Organisation, but not to the special issue of health workers working on the frontline battle against the coronary. It needs to be clarified today by the Qualified Opposition of what it means and finally by whom it is. As far as the draft law is concerned, Minister, I have heard you - and I am sorry, because I have known you for many years - to say that you are changing legislation after forty years. It may be that some of the rules of the law refer to changes in the 1982 Act, yes. The fundamental issue, however, which is socially and politically controversial, is not related to these issues, but to what the Government of Giorgos Papandreou with me with the Minister of Labour in this Chamber with No.3846 has given solutions. What do I mean? All issues relating to out-of-eight provision of services, out-of-eight work. Switching? Seasonal? All of them. Even for teleworking. And, of course, on the big issue of the protected or non-working collective negotiations. Then your party voted against our legislative initiative. That's why you might also have a loss of fresh memory. I'm talking about 2010. I haven't been talking for many decades back. And the current Chief of Officer's Reconciliation and then SYRIZA talked about middle-age working. When I hear that phrase, I understand that the one who swoops it doesn't know what he's saying. "Working middle ages" they said at the time. You haven't changed a single arrangement on the better. By contrast, your 2016 law burdened the working environment. That's the truth. And you started again after five years of power to talk about middle-aged working ages and these, sound, but similar, but indifferent to one citizen, about the vast majority of citizens, which requires modesty, seriousness, honesty and by those who are ruling effectiveness. Well, first of all, the prisoner. I'll keep that for you. I didn't think so. It's the loss of a recent memory. Secondly, with regard to collective bargaining. You voted against us then, but we in Article 7 of that law tried to give strength, whatever, in knowledge of what is happening in the private sector. Because the dialogue that is taking place in the country is unaware of what is happening in the private sector, in words, because everyone knows. Then we tried to give the worker power and not to leave to his fate the individual worker who today in the present labour market is also an informal, unfortunately unfortunate rule. We said we needed associations, federations. We made an escalation of the counterparty's requirements to the employer. And finally, where there was none of these structured multifaceted faces, we talked about an association of persons that exceeds the number of persons. One worker, one employer. The position of the worker today is too weak. You're removing this. This is where we are concerned, representatives of a Social Democratic Party, a question of principle. We're across the street. We are against the word of knowledge, neither with cries nor with noise nor with the opposition of the twentieth century, which often characterizes the National Representation. And here you must tell us - which you are presenting in your friendly press and in the papers you are moving to your MPs, but also to the journalists, as if it were your bill in favour of the worker - the most important issue - whether it is the public or the private sector - of the collective bargaining of a worker who in the private sector is absolutely weak. Be quiet. And you're making a change that finds us weak. For me here, there's the question of principle. And second and last theme of principle. I don't have time. Before I say this, let me say that the working card was introduced by us in 2011, before we ran into it. We set it up. Listen. And it's GFCM's request for years, because it's been guaranteeing the worker. What do you think? You say you introduce her politically. That's what we did. But it's been ten years. And you're going to the big business. But there, the problem...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u11	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u12	Explain it. No, I'm not convinced. I have a right to insist on my opinion. If you go only to the big businesses, you ignore 98% of the Greek economy, made up of medium and small, very small ones. If it's something opposite, and it's your explanation, I have no reason to accept it. I'm in favour of the working card. It's the GCC in favor of the working card. The government of George Papandreou with us ministers had established the working card. So you're talking to someone who sees things from this corner, because that's the corner of the protection of the worker and not the weak control mechanisms of the workplace. Finally, I don't have any more time. I'm going to stand in Article 66. The debate on constitutional and unconstitutionalism is a debate concerning lawyers and judges, most of all concerning all citizens, all MEPs obviously. But it's a more penetrating conversation. No matter how many people want to make it everyday, light and current, it's not. Article 66, however, gives rise to many problems of interpretation. I read with great interest the multi-page study of the Scientific Studies Directorate, and if I were you, I would really have told my colleagues to re-form Article 66. More than six questions are raised by the Scientific Service of the Parliament. Are you going to transfer these to the judge? You're going to do this conduit thing? You're driving people into adventure? What does your law do to the sensitive subject referred to in Article 66, which is the issue of the termination of the contract, namely redundancies? Who does not react when he hears this term? You have put in place a provision that gives rise to great interpretative problems. I imagine that your colleagues have informed you what exactly the Scientific Service of the Parliament is deciding. If you leave the article like this, then willingly, consciously, you lead the workers to the courts. You are driving workers and indeed on the most important issue of dismissal, the termination of a employment relationship, in justice, namely long-term conflicts and sometimes even expensive ones. He's asking you about the burden of proof by the Scientific Agency. There's no clean mind for the scientist who shaped the text who has the burden of proof. You seem to pass it on from the employer who denounces the worker that the reasons for the first case do not exist. However, it is not just this matter, it is another five and the National Representation would expect, since you have this suggestion, at least to clarify your intentions and not to let them be blurred, so that everyone does not understand what is happening and that you can get through public criticism more easily. These are the issues that I raise as a Member of the opposition, as a member of the PASOK, the Change Movement, and I think you should think about them again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u13	I would ask that the Step and the reason for the SYRIZA MP have a Progressive Alliance, Mr. Hussein Zabeck. HUSSEIN ZEBEC: Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for over a year and a half because of the horn pandemic, we have reviewed what we considered to be data. Citizens have been hard tested at all levels. The National Health System has reached its limits. The economy almost collapsed after so many months of lockdown. The world was closed in his homes and we were all forced to leave our daily lives in order to protect ourselves from the threat of the virus. We have seen images of collapse in hospitals with the health staff making superhuman efforts. Sadly, however, we mourned many dead. We in the Xanthi Prefecture experienced the trembling in hospitals, which combined with the total absence of information led to the creation of a sense of insecurity for what is to come into being. But instead of these images being a lesson to the government, they seem to have passed and not touched. The fact is that the General Hospital of Xanthi, although standing up to the difficult moments of the pandemic, is now being driven to the forefront of the collapse. The hospital's intensified treatment facility from the beginning of the year is not working. The entire hospital has a available anesthesiologist and the shortages in medical staff overall reach 60%. Unfortunately, it is now certain that our hospital will not withstand a possible fourth wave of pandemic. So does the government show its gratitude to Xanthi Hospital, to his medical and nursing staff? In this difficult treaty, the state had to shield and defend the health system, support doctors and through them and citizens. Instead, all he knows to do is weaken the National Health System and promote the General Hospital of Xanthi to the collapse. However, the Government of New Democracy has not even done anything in the other areas. On the occasion of the reduction of parliamentary procedures, there has been a large number of unpopular legislation in the economy, education, rural development and today at work. Another characteristic example is the zero support for farmers in the face of pandemic. Especially for tobacco growing, the indifference shown by the Government to strengthen our local variety "Basmas", unlike the "Virginia" variety, has very negative consequences for the continued cultivation and jobs in the region of Thrace. With regard to the economy that has been hit hugely with many padlocks in small and medium-sized enterprises, with many other companies still closed and without a clear picture of the course of tourism, the government is today going to shift the burden on the workers. Instead of supporting businesses, it claims supposedly anachronistic diseases in the field of labour, to pay workers once again. In the meantime, we have been watching a desperate attempt to become white - black and to manipulate public opinion that supposedly the bill is the charitable one and protects workers' rights. Article 22 of the Constitution for the Protection of Work is directly destroyed at a time when work should be protected as ever and in practice rather than with special purpose allowances. In addition, no government dared to harm the eighth-hour paid workers. But you, in a demonstration of insurmountable neoliberalism, do not hesitate to trespass on it. Today's bill is the final blow to the world of work, following the anti-social and anti-social policies implemented by the government on the day following the elections. At a time of deep economic and social crisis, the reduction of incomes, precariousness and unemployment began with the deterioration of the Labour Inspectorate and provided for the reduction of fines for breaches of labour law. It abolished the right to dismiss workers and dismantled the institution of collective bargaining, as well as the right to appeal for workers to arbitration. While confronted with pandemic as an opportunity to restructure the economy and deregulation of the labour market, it introduced rotating work, a reduction in wages with the 'REGION' programme and the suspension of the employment contract with an allowance of EUR 534. Furthermore, it brings its final blow by abolishing the eighth and five-day work by establishing the individual contract. Ten-hour work is now required with a reduction in wages, as the employee is paid for eight hours and there will be a set-off and leave. The adjustment of working time by an individual contract provides for a 10-hour work without additional remuneration for a 12-month reference period of increased employment with a netting capacity within six months at another period of reduced employment or a combination of reduced working and off-take times. It is obvious that the reorganization of working time by an individual contract leads to the complete dismantling of collective agreements, while the implementation of the arrangement system will be substantially the responsibility of the employer. At the same time, the number of legal overtime is increasing to fifty hours from the ninety - six hours currently in force in industry and twenty - twenty in service business. The "compulsory leave" is regulated on the initiative of the employer and the work is extended on Sundays. With all the above, the distance between the neoliberal right-wing government and SYRIZA clearly appears. Let us remember that the SYRIZA government supported workers and their income in a period of budgetary constraints. It strengthened the controls at workplaces and reversed the trend towards deregulation of the industrial relations that had been imposed during the memorandum period. This policy has contributed to a sharp decline in unemployment of 10% and at the same time, after ten years, there has been an increase in average wages in 2019. On the contrary, you come today with a bill of degradation of work and the most dramatic one, the most problematic is that you are not thinking, not only of the conditions of pandemic, but also of weakening the country from the workforce. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I come from a county that falls within the limits of the poorest - perhaps - region of the European Union. Thousands of my fellow citizens each year migrate abroad in the hope of finding jobs in other countries. The sure thing is that these deregulation initiatives will not lead to new jobs, nor will they prevent the labour force from leaking abroad. On the other hand, they are reminiscent of working-age ages and are an incentive to labour migration. SYRIZA's proposal is to build a stable labour relations framework, strengthen the negotiating power and the availability of workers' income. Everyone must be able to live from their work and plan a better future. Everyone has a right to work on decent terms. The world of work and the entire Greek people will be at odds with your destructive policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too. The speaker of the New Democracy, Maria - Helen Soukouli - Viliali, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are being called today in the Greek Parliament's plenary to take another decisive and bold step to meet the expectations of Greek society in solving a key issue that creates enormous social insecurity and directly threatens our social cohesion. Of course, I am referring to the highest social, economic and political demand for the provision of quality work in our country. The government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with courage and from the outset, set our dominant strategic objective that clearly concerns the creation of quality jobs for all Greek women and all Greeks, in order to cope with the bleeding caused by the economic crisis and which has, unfortunately, led us to look into the future of our Greek society outside our country. With design and methodicity we have been recovering our trust and credibility both abroad and internally in recent years, proving that the country and its human resources can meet the competitive requirements internationally. We are consistently creating the conditions for exploiting our country's development potential so as to become a strong point of attracting quality investments that will result in the quality jobs that our young and young people are looking for in particular. We have no delusion that this change in the development process and productive reconstruction will be achieved from one day to the next, but we have the assurance that we are moving a step - step by step and hard work in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the concept of offering quality work, we are clearly talking about creating well-paid jobs where the remuneration should be proportionate to the quality of work. But the concept of quality work for the government and the Prime Minister himself is not just exhausted in the economic part. It also concerns the creation of a quality working environment, where workers' working rights will be effectively protected so that working time will be creative and productive and can offer the intended personal and professional filling. This sensitive, but particularly important part to achieve an integrated strategy in the field of labour, is today trying with this bill to regulate, leaving the voices of the past which for decades have been defending that for the support of workers' rights - they do not support workers' rights - they are trying to perpetuate the shadowy dependencies between party parties and a rust trade union movement, aimed at patronising workers to their own party and trade union gains. You can understand, then, that the front of populism we have across us in order to respect its genuine demagogic self, should be placed as a basic criterion of its attitude and action, its service to party clienteles, and in the end no matter what is beneficial national ones. Much more so since today's bill does not come at a time of political neutrality, it comes at a time when the opposition is intensely experiencing the political margin that Greek society has put it, and above all, the rejection of all its opposition tactics, which is usually based on the hailing and ghebs presentation of the issues. In other words, the model of policy where it is comfortable to operate and certainly has a political advantage. Because when the debate goes on in order, that's where the myths fall apart, propaganda breaks and questions become relentless. Do you know or not, ladies and gentlemen, that two-thirds of the 20 billion calculated by the paramilitary economy in our country comes from undeclared and undeclared work? What are you going to tell all these workers who work black or supposedly? Why don't we vote for the working card and the reinforcement of the SEA as an Independent Authority? What are you going to say about the revenues of the Greek economy that are lost and could go to health and education, which are so hard to deal with? What are you going to tell the Greek people about the changes that are coming to work on teleworking, which, as a result of the health crisis, is becoming a new normality at world level and needs immediately a new protection framework for workers so as not to turn the eighth into 24 hours from home? What are you going to tell the Greek people that you do not want to vote on the provisions on protection against sexual violence and harassment at the workplace, where, according to all the investigations, it is the field with the highest percentage of such infringability? What are you going to tell them "believable to us that we are not lying, that they want to abolish the eighth hour or that overtime will be paid with the day off?" In other words, you will be telling them not to look at the bill that a mother has the right, such as throughout Europe, in the course of the weekend to settle the working time of her work and if she wishes to sit with her child at home a day or two or more, having worked a little longer in the past and you say so without shame when you in the years that you have ruled did nothing essential to combat the alleged overtime. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is an excellent opportunity for the government to ask questions about Anti-Population and to expose to the Greek people what they already know that Anti-Population in Greece is absent and inexistent in the attempt to put forward and modernise the country. And I sincerely do not welcome this fact, because the institutional role of counter-population in our democracy is truly central to the functioning of the culture. But, as a great theorist of the modern left is saying - because we have read this and I am of course referring to Mr Polakis - now it is time for you to have the eye of the tiger, the look of the tiger and, rather, there is no time for other essential things. But you must try harder, because, for the time being, the only message you send to the Greek society is your faith in the lost power, but also your passion for doing everything in order to regain it. Greece, however, is changing and moving rapidly towards a future of prosperity for all citizens and we will succeed, even without you and for you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u16	We too thank you for the consistency in time. The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelli, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr. Parliamentary Representatives of the New Democracy, and I address myself mainly to the newly-democratic MPs, whether mild or tons of anyone who has seen what has been said in this House will seek to find and measure where such hatred has been found? So hatred! Hate for any form of collectiveness, except for "All together" of "SKAI", possibly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u18	...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u19	Hate for every trade union effort or group in dealing with vital problems of work. You threw up a bile in a way and irony! You bragged, Mr. Colleague, that your workers were your friends. Will you tell us that you have a partner in the cleaner of your clinic and you've given her shares? So, the syndicate understands it as participatory, equity process, that everyone is part of the profits, that you share them, that you give them too much, that is, a third, a fifteenth quarter. You are the good shepherds of the workers and the trade unions are the "Julys" of the workers. The Communist Party of Greece and all the parties and all the bodies and all the clubs and all the workers who fought to be able to speak instantly about labour rights today and for eight hours are the devils of the labour movement. You are the good shepherds! You're here to deal with the many, there's no one else, only New Democracy! And you also make your MPs believe these and believe them and misinterpret them to a degree of felony. I was listening to my colleague from Karditsa saying that Chichipas didn't get what he achieved because he only plays and gets tired of an eight-hour, he's tired of 12 hours, fourteen hours. These Greeks we want, he says. That's what Mr. Mitsotakis wants! He took that to Mitsotakis too. Will you charge him to Greece for name and origin? His parents, his coaches and sponsors! Do you think this is the work, the sponsorship process of people who gather them all together and give them the right to serve you? And when your time comes or God cuts you, or something happens to you, you will wish them the time you will allow this in vain world to be met by a good employer like you and not to be a evildoer and not to accept the corrections you make. What corrections, though? Here we discuss the bill, Minister, we're talking about it, and the supermarkets go 9 a.m. to 10:30 at night. How many shifts? And thirty-two, which is more than half of the fifty-two Sundays! Thirty-two of the fifty-two Sundays of the year, more than half! Do you think that mass recruitment has been automatically carried out to get to double and triple shifts? Can I tell you what's gonna happen? The 12-hour, which was already guaranteed! That is what you are doing here in the jungle, you are making sure that the sheep are slaughtered for the good shepherds and that they have good income. And what you're trying to do is cut them off, literally cut them. I have the impression that even the way you reacted to the strike, which was one of the biggest - where to see the next thing - I honestly say it to you, seems that you have taken the cash from your point of view completely, completely distortingly, the lyric of Dinos Christian. I will tell you to remember him: "The sheep have been abducted, they have asked for better conditions of slaughter." Is that what you think? You thought you were doing it. You offer workers better slaughter conditions! So you're saying this impossible lie to a mother: But, Mommy, you respect her, you love her. In fact, with the bill, as it is, you have made it mother, motherhood, part-time work, four for the employer, three for the child! Attention, if these three are one Sunday and she sits three, the kid who doesn't have a school on Saturday and doesn't have a school on Sunday, he can't see his mother, because on Saturday and Sunday the kid will be at home and the mother at work and father himself. And you come and say now, what good do you do: Take three oil, two vinegar, five, seven, eight, eight, and something like that in relation to the shares of the oil and make one hour that sounds nice and say it outward. You do the same with violence and harassment. The boss - whoever the boss is - also chooses the workers in one way or another, do not choose their jobs, you understand that better than anyone else. This you will come to tell me the day you will not see with a mini, painted compulsory, blonde compulsory hotel and waitress. You'll come and tell me the day you see a waitress overweight and a can. Then you'll come and tell me that you've improved the production conditions and that because she's in trouble and she's fat, they won't fire her at the hotel. Where do you live? You live in hotels! That's what you see, and you want to do the whole world like this and this world will happen like this. Well, of course, if you work fourteen and thirteen and twelve hours, then you start jobbing to be fit. You'll play tennis seriously! First of all, a racquet is doing about as much as a payroll as a temporary job. You're talking about violence. All right, I'll tell you that you've taken three measures on the basis of the directive and three more than three. In fact, you are not just hitting violence, extending the hour and breaking the hour is multiplying the violence. It multiplys it, it's violence real, worse than the one you can imagine. When you force a young girl twenty-five years old to break her life by possibly working at the bank or somewhere else 9.00 p.m. with 2.00 p.m. and then 6.00 p.m. at 9.00 p.m., isn't it violence? Isn't it violence? We don't live in the same town? Isn't it for you to think of it as violence? And you came here and presented it as the great benefit of giving two days for extraordinary events. But if your mom's in Soufly and she dies, you think she's enough, like you're going with a private helicopter, two days to go and bury her and come back! How did you present them, twist them, bring them all this, like it's ice cream in sauce? You know what's going on in the street, what's going on outside in market conditions with an endless series of unemployed? Is it the workers who are unemployed? It is their fault that trade unions, in fact, represent parties with reinforced logic, with reinforced analogous plans, how are you going to make the elections, so as to avoid simple proportionality? You come as representatives of 22%, of 25%, to ask the other by card, handed out, fifty plus one by "tel" and put them with the JRC, when I said that even the witness from far to a court of a "tel" cannot be accepted, because it can be done with the gun to the head. And a bigger pistol on the front is in the temporary work, in the fragmented working relationships, in the abolition of all kinds of possibilities for collective reaction, with the classic - that was said by Simitis, and the previous ones - "go to the courts to find your right". They should all go to the courts and find their point. What court? The court, first of all, costs. Secondly, have you ever thought of talking to me about violence when you are not putting women in the special purpose in nursing, in health centers, and if they have a child of a minor and if they have a child of a HEAD? But by decision of the Region - I didn't get it out of my head - the region did not get in. You are always inventing the extraordinary conditions that allow you under exceptional circumstances to create. And you have cultivated this to both your MPs and to the public speech, a hate for the proletariat, the labour proletariat, the armies of the unemployed who are blackmailed in the position of one who is working and made redundant and denounce the contract. There's forty ready, because that's what you taught them to eat him to take the place, so they don't get hungry in a state of pay policy. And you are always looking for motives to make all this look very nice, very European, very beautiful and all the rest just to be pretenses in sin. So make a decision: they don't strike sheep, they strike workers. No sheep traded, no workers traded. They're traded. And because they trade workers, you exist here because there are workers! If there weren't any workers... Don't tell me below "I don't go"!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u20	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u21	Finish it, Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u22	You know what? That's what you told me! You put it down and told me not to go any further. Can I tell you something? Listen to me, Mr. Maraveya, because you're not the singing of another Maraveya! You're not!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u23	Mrs. Kanelle, please, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u24	You know what? You move on, but move on against a cliff! Understand? We are shouting to move on. You know what? You don't see the light. You don't see it. Profit, besides others, is blind.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u25	From Kolonaki, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u26	It blinds, blinds, blinds!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Maraveya, don't interrupt the speaker!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u28	And don't tell me about Kolonaki! Mr President, the bell also applies to me! I didn't challenge him, and I didn't say his name!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Maraveya, don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u30	I had to say his name at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Maraveya, wear your mask and don't interrupt. Finish it, Mrs. Canelle!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u32	Go to your employees' friends and make an ideal business for you. If you try selling her for a model, we tell you that at the JRC such models don't work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u33	Thank you. Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today represents an important reform in the area of work and in the business sector, and it is an opportunity to discuss our ideological approaches to these issues and to see where we disagree or even agree. A prerequisite, however, for such a debate in a serious reform such as this, is the understanding and assumption of reality. Firstly, we have to admit that conditions in the world of work and business have changed. The new digital age has developed new data. The labour market and the needs of enterprises have changed. The workplace is not like it was forty years ago. Secondly, we must realise that the problem of alleged or undeclared work is real and not only because of abusive behaviour, but also because of a lack of flexibility in the legislative framework. And thirdly, we need to have a debate on the real arrangements in the bill, to talk about what really anticipates and about them, and to see our ideological differences. I say this because, once again, I find that SYRIZA is forming its own false reality and is opposed to the reality that it has already created. This, however, creates a dimension with the very reality and is an explanation for SYRIZA's inability to convince citizens. Of course this is reflected in all polls. I will start from this very distance from reality, ladies and gentlemen, because it makes no sense for SYRIZA to criticise provisions not provided for in the bill, but only in its own imagination. A worker's right, such as that of the working time arrangement that has been taking place in the country for thirty years in large companies, through sectoral agreements, and which also applies in Europe to the majority of European states, is denied this today. A right for the worker on his own initiative to ask him to adjust working time to his family conditions, you want to deprive him of that, and you are baptizing a friendly policy. In order to support this, you are lying, that it is allegedly abolished in eight hours and that the extra hours of work are supposed to be paid off. But tell me, ladies and gentlemen, what exactly a provision in the bill you have seen this and if you read the provision of Article 55 which explicitly provides for working time. But this seems to be common for SYRIZA to do the white one. Like also, it is common once more to pretend. You are now getting up for the settlement of working time, the arrangement that has been applied to the hotel sector, and you have recently asked that the sectoral convention be declared compulsory, that is to say, to apply to workers who may not want it. But you react to the provision of this bill, to asking as a worker whenever he wishes to regulate working time. I would remind you that the European Working Time Directive was signed on the SYRIZA, which is now being incorporated into this draft law. On SYRIZA the arrangement was implemented in a number of large companies. In 2010, the then Ministers of PASOK and more members of SYRIZA brought the law entitled "Work Safety Guarantees" provided for in Article 7 for the adjustment of working time. It was exactly the same arrangement as that provided for in this draft law. Enough of SYRIZA's hypocrisy! Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law contains provisions that show our clear ideological differences, but also the different concept of the reality and the modern needs of society and citizens. We can also discuss this on a real basis. We believe in the freedom to shape relations between employer and worker. We give the worker the opportunity, if he wishes, to shape working time differently and at the same time to protect him against abuse of behaviour by upgrading the AAR to an independent authority. We believe that the exercise of trade union rights must have limits. The protection of the trade union can't make it to immunity. The right to strike cannot go to the point of blackmailing society and afflicting citizens. It cannot go beyond justice and to circumvent judicial decisions. And it cannot be exercised through organisations - seals. That is why we are introducing a number of measures. We are introducing transparency measures to trade through the compulsory registration of trade unions in the electronic register. We are introducing a abolition of the possibility of financing trade unions from businesses, trade unions and parties. We introduce a minimum guaranteed service during a strike at the common interest to 33%. We are establishing a ban on restoring a strike that has already been judged illegal by justice, and we are introducing civil liability for trade unions who, during a strike, carry out illegal acts or practice violence. At the same time, we are creating a web of worker protection adapted to modern times and to real problems. That is how we establish the digital working card, a modern mechanism financed by the Recovery Fund, through which real overtime work will be monitored and paid and combated and undeclared work and evasion. We also have a special framework for teleworking, seeing the right to disconnect, that is, the right of the worker to spend real time with his family and his personal life. We are introducing specific provisions to deal with the phenomenon of violence and harassment at work, which we have all seen in recent years has received alarming proportions. We broaden the list of cases of invalid dismissal by protecting the father for six months from the birth of his or her child or worker exercising his or her rights and at the same time retaining all the cases already provided for in the law. We anticipate new permits for both parents and caregivers and we equate the compensation for the dismissal of the worker to that of the employee. And here are the following questions: do all these predictions agree with the opposition parties? Will they vote against these provisions too? Has the left government taken such measures, or has it not been able to legislate? Ladies and gentlemen, the protection of workers in whose name you stand is not done in words, but by actions. It is not by theories, nor by sticking to a reality of decades past, nor by the break-up of businesses, because there are no workers without businesses, nor do businesses without workers. The Government of New Democracy is taking a decisive step towards yet another reform of labour legislation by adapting it to modern social, economic and technological developments. Because progress means comprehending the era, meeting its needs and planning the future, not sticking to the logic of the past by building a virtual reality with fantasy enemies and scripts. Only then will we create a productive Greece that attracts investment and creates jobs. Only in this way will we lead the country on the road of propaganda and prosperity. So I call on you to take another step forward and vote for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u35	We also thank Mr Nikolakopoulou and the consistency in time. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mr. Alexander Meikopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the bill we have been discussing these days in Parliament, I think we should approach it from two sides. First of all, it belongs to those instruments, Mr Hatzidakis, which have such a social and economic impact that, after voting and implementing, the labour market is always changing the scope of the regulation. In this sense, the day-to-day debate concerns every citizen whether he is a private or public worker. Work relations, therefore, Mr Minister, the protection of work or the non-protection of work are matters which not only concern workers closely, but it is a question of what society we want, what democracy we want. So in a sense, in our view, confrontation these days is essentially a battle to defend democratic and socially acquired persons. And why do I claim that, Minister? Because, Mr Hatzidakis, you come to settle, you come to legalise a situation of exception, according to which for several years in Greece, I have been saying that the work is not paid decently, that overtime is not paid enough or is not paid at all, that hours are not kept and that hours are constantly intensified. So there are despair talks that are taking place in social everyday life. We all hear them in our association with the world. What do many people say? "Why, who is paid overtime?" or "who works eight hours?". So, in these desperation findings, in these sad findings, the Government, the New Democracy, comes to respond with an integrated platform for depreciating and awarding wage earners, which turns us back many years. So, Minister, no matter how much you have tried to baptize it "reformation", the breeze that goes through this bill is the absolute stripping of the average worker against his employer by any legal or collective right. It will be possible, for example, Minister, and you know that - every supermarket will decide to operate all 24/7 - it will offer four-night contracts to 16 euros a day and one or no day off, i.e. a salary of around 400 euros a week. He will be working alternately at a multi-shop or four-hour-old cafeteria every day between 9.00 and 13.00 p.m., with a salary of EUR 324 and an additional job will be requested, not on a continuous basis, but on the afternoon, from 16.00 p.m. to 19.00, with an increased hourly rate of 4,36 euros. So this worker, Minister and Mr Maraveya, - listen to learn a little - should, if he lives in Athens, go to Peristeri to work for another three hours for 13 euros. And if he wants to, let him refuse. Dismissal is karado there. So why would an employer - I wonder - be hiring someone for eight hours, since he will now be able to shape the working hours according to his needs, starting with part-time contracts and hunger wages? Why - I wonder - to hire a new worker to hire a company, since, now, with the extended hours - ten hours - and the doubling of overtime - and, in fact, cheaper ones - he may be able to do the same and more, perhaps, work with the same workers and at a lower cost? And now I come to this terrible and intelligent counter-project that has been heard in the last few days. What do you think? That the provisions of the bill give rise to a balance between family and working life. Yes, sir. Why do you say that? You're saying a mother who wants to work ten hours from Monday to Thursday can't get a day off Friday and so she can see her kids for three days. So given that all day's kindergartens and primary schools in the country complete their timetable at 16.00, if the mother or father or both work 10 hours - the work starts at 8.00 and ends at 18.00 - who will take the children from kindergarten or school? Who's gonna wait for school at home? Who's gonna have the courage to help the child in the course after ten hours of work? But do you not understand that the horizontal enforcement of the extended working hours is a matter of profound social consequences? Can't you see the problems that will cause the middle Greek family? You claim, now, something else. You claim that with these arrangements the economy will flood with investment due to high demand. Let us assume then that tens of multinationals suddenly came to invest in Greece because of humiliating wages and as a miracle thousands of jobs were created. The question is one and very basic: do we want such jobs as a state? Do we, as a state, want jobs with these wages and under these conditions? If what you say, Minister, was actually the case, if, that is, investments were a function of labour costs, then Bulgaria should have been a heaven on earth and Germany should have been doomed to eternal recession. So it will be interesting, Mr Hatzidakis, for the next time, when we are applying these provisions, to monitor how you yourself, Prime Minister Mitsotakis, how Mr Maravegias, the rapporteur, who is also a scientific director in a private clinic and has two private doctors, will manage the massive poverty of your own party base. I would remind you of a very simple thing: despite the one-thematic briefing you are enjoying, the time will come when the traditional centre-right voter will sign his new individual contract with twice as long hours, weekends, and no extra fee. So at that time, Minister, you will be asked to explain your options to the voters themselves. So far, however, the only explanation that exists is that you, Mr Hatzidakis, and the Prime Minister, do not have the slightest idea of what constitutes work today in Greece. And that's what you know why? Because on the ground, Mr Minister, and I am sorry about that - you are unorthodox. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u37	And we thank Mr. Micopulus. Ms. Antonios Mylonakis, then Ms. Diamanto Manolakos, then Mr. Bourhan Baran, has the floor. Here, Mr. Mylanoke, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have not been since the beginning of the work since yesterday morning. We accompanied with Mr. Villardos the party president on Mount Athos. We've been there for four days. We also had a candle for the whole House and we were on Monday at the change of care, because Mr. Velopoulos was invited to the change of custody of Mount Athos. Minister, I would like to be very careful today, because in my view I have a man who is on the side of low tone, but on the other hand, he is a man of special missions, of all time. And, you know, we pilots take great care of the weather when we start on a mission. A lot of messages, too many messages, Minister. And, obviously, citizens' messages were not from voters of the Greek Solution, because if there were so many voters of the Greek Solution, then we would be an official opposition and go to government. This can be done in a few years. But I want to tell you this and I want you to take it seriously: impulseness often harms. Two were those parts for which the world is upset. The first was with this special committee, the experts. And I would like, Mr President, before I begin, for the work we have done, for which the doctor, Mrs Athanasios, and our parliamentary representative, Mr Hetas and Mr Boubas, will also speak tomorrow, and I would like to say that this is incomprehensible with the mandatoryity of the vaccines, and I think, Mr President-in-Office, that you understand this very well today from all the television stations, particularly those whose money is being buckled up to you, the pan-Hellenic, that is, vaccines and AstraZeneca. I mean, one front, one back. But one day, another day. We have warned you here of the Step and the Members and the President of the Party, to be careful because not all vaccines are safe, it is at an experimental stage. It turns out that we were 100% right. And we have told you that the Greek Solution did not enter here to make a mess, but it entered to help the House as much as it can, with its small powers, for the sake of Greek society. And now we see what is happening with many journalists, with Mr Portasalte being prominent today, he said 'Examined' and 'How is it? I came in front of these issues." Minister, the perpetrators of people who went out every day on the channels and said "Go on to carry out vaccines" blamed the citizens, "They are the blame of the world." It was all the Greek people's fault. And now you see the results. And you'll see them even more. We called you about the monoclonals. Here, they save lives. Nothing! The time will come and the time will come when you will fall, that you will curse yourself for doing this great, impulsive energy for mandatory vaccination, which you continue to do. From the first moment we had said no to the parties' leaders giving directions to the world, not to the MPs saying, "Maybe, my Chief, I am close to you, I also did the vaccine." Because that's what happened. I'm sorry to say that, but people must be released. Everyone's free. We have to explain to the world what is going on, what the results are, what the pros are, what the anti- and not make it a experimental animal, because that is what the world has done. We are now going to your bill today, Minister, on which we all agree that the state has all the time, but it only has one people's slap, it only keeps on doing so, and what is good doesn't keep going. This bill will indeed call it an abortion, a murderous bill for work. It's not just your fault. It's the parties that have ruled. He said Mr. Loverdos, my good friend, Andreas, who was a minister of health when he was voted, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, on May 11, 2010. At that time a lot of people were shouting against PASOK, Minister, and you and the New Democracy that you were oppositioned. For what? Because it brought the elastic forms of work to the surface. It was the first time, ladies and gentlemen. And I think she remembers it very well, because Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulou, who also signed this article at that time, is present. Go check it out. So what's going on? It has been taken by Mr Hatzidakis, Minister, it is a part of the puzzle that SYRIZA and PASOK have sometimes voted for. He has also put in the new directives that the European Union gives us and made today's bill. It didn't happen that way? That's the truth. I know you agree. Because here a lot of people are playing innocent pigeons that they don't know anything. He doesn't know anything about PASOK - KINAL. Go and pay your loans and the New Democracy and you and don't change your VAT. It's over and out. The fun is over. And SYRIZA, who four and a half years voted for memos and signed flexible forms of work and now says no. What's not? How? After you voted for them. Now the Minister took them, and what did the Minister do? What you also did, you had voted from time to time, part - of the puzzle composed it and created this abortion the murder today. You're dropping, Minister, eight o'clock. Why was the eighth created? To have family planning, so that the man knows he works eight hours and gets up and goes home, he goes home, he goes to his children, he goes to his family. You've all broken up your family. I'm not talking about the JRC. I am talking about all this wing from here, but of course the Greek Solution, which is the first to enter the House. You must have heard me many times about these things that have happened for so many years. So what happened? There's no family, family planning zero. You completely abolish collective forms of work. But why did it happen... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please for your tolerance for one, two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u39	No, Mr. Mylonakis, please be brief, because everyone with the same logic has this right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u40	You are therefore abolishing the collective agreements which have been carried out for one purpose, because there cannot be many-speed workers in one undertaking in another. Apart from the stages that workers, managers, directors, managers who have different wages, there is a difference in wages, all the other workers entered and received a salary. Now what are you doing? You're putting on the individual contract of employment. Hetas will be coming. Hetas will get 1,200 euros. Mylonakis will come and take 600 euros, see Heta with half an eye. He'll say behind him: "Hey, don't go to hell, I don't work. I'll work as much as I get paid." Here is a problem which the Greek society will face in the coming years. Break hours. Where has this been heard again?Everyone can say: Come in the morning with 8: 00 to 12: 00, come in the afternoon 16: 00 to 20: 00. I don't understand that thing. So, man doesn't have to go home, get some rest, eat, see the kids, read them? No, nothing work and nothing else. Work, work, work. You have banned the indiscriminate constitutional right of the worker to protest, Minister. The protest must exist. Healthy syndication must exist. I repeat, healthy union must exist. We can't stop everything. The worker can't be in a galley and work, work, work, work without having a right. No right! Overtime. Minister, listen. Because you're talking about overtime and I've watched you enough. You increased the number of overtime in the hundred and fifty hours. But, ladies and gentlemen, the increase was reduced simultaneously from 80% to 40%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u41	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u42	We'll see about that, maybe I'm wrong. That's what we're doing wrong, we're accepting it. Of course we also have more than 50 hours, Minister, with 60% increase.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u43	One hundred and twenty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u44	Okay, we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u45	Finish now, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u46	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u47	I'm finishing it a hundred times. Please hang up. Put it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u48	Remove Sunday's holiday. Our religion, Minister, has had one thing so far, Sunday is a holiday. People go to his church, go with his children, gather the family at noon, eat together and then enjoy one day all together. You remove all of this, you'll work on Sundays with no inclinations. Of course - and I am ending - an independent authority, why didn't the Labour Inspectorate make you the small flexible sections that existed everywhere? You've made a stricken section again, another independent authority. Hundreds of millions of independent authorities to keep nothing. No inspection. You'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr Mylonakis. And look at the watch. Please look at it, because we are at the number ninety-five and they are two hundred seventeen registered. Please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u50	Excuse me and conclude, Mr President. The Greek Solution is voting against this bill and I believe that by the end the government will have seen some of the issues that we have said because it will be characterized by society as an abortion, the murderous bill for work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u51	The floor is now for the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Diamanto Manolakos for seven minutes. Now I'm going to say it and I'm going to beg you all to respect the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u52	I will be shorter than the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u53	Look. There are parliamentary representatives who may refer to general issues. The previous speaker ate most of the time on other issues, and when he entered the bill he did not have time. Warm request to keep time. That is why there are also the parliamentary representatives, and this is their role in other matters. Of course the Members of Parliament too, but not three quarters of a year, are placed in other places and then asked for tolerance for one, two minutes. It can't be done. You're looking at the directory. We must all be the first to respect the Members of this House who have the right to express themselves and express their fellow citizens, who honor them and want them here. Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u54	We have once again admired your urban democracy based on lies and deception to protect this rotten system. It is baptised at night, while in an absolute and clear way this bill increases the rights and profits of business groups by imposing more and more unpaid work on the workers even Sunday. He joined workers in the eighth hour, collective agreements, trade union action. In short, promote work as the employer wants, ensuring more profits for businesses and confusing the lives of the people's family. He really puts a real bourgeoisie in the lives of millions of workers. How much they work, how much they are paid, whether they are rested will be determined by the individual agreement of each individual worker with the employer. That's why it's doomed to the workers' conscience. It seemed from last Thursday's grand strike, which hurt you a lot and you're gonna hurt another tomorrow. You are presenting us as a model for the workers in "PAPASTRATO". This is what they say in their letter: "We know very well what it means to adjust working time since we work on a rolling day without knowing what Sunday means, what family moments, having a huge burden on our organization because of the continuous shift variations that are now more frequent than before. Or even that the company reduced its machinery crew, it loaded more and more responsibilities to fewer people." There's more revealing. It's in today's "RIZOPAST" on page 28. It is therefore a fat-cut lie to present as a modern monstrous event, as a demand for society, trade unions or workers. However, is it lightning in stork? Oh, no. The increase in working time and the further undermining of fixed day-to-day time is a strategic choice for the European Union's capital. Since May 2005, the European Parliament had been approved by the Spanish Social Democrats Serkas' report on the organisation of working time and the articles in question had also been passed by the New Democracy, and by the current Minister of Labour as a MEP, and by the SYRIZA rapporteur, who was then a PASOK MEP, but also by the Leftist coalition at that time. But why now is the anti-galactic abortion coming for a vote? Because the competition between capital is growing and is interested in not reducing, not losing part of its profits. Yes, it is an order and strategic objective of the Greek Industrial Association and requires more cheaper and flexible labour force. With this abortion, you implement it. The worker will work longer hours and he will be less rewarded. This saves capital labour hands by intensifying, that is, fewer will do the same job, as is done today in "PASTRATO", which would normally come out of more. This is how the exploitation and tolerance grows. Of course, for years now - all governments have been dismantling labour rights and especially the right to daily working time, that is, eight hours. The main law of the working time arrangement was made in 2011 by the PASOK Government. He was maintained and extended by the previous government of SYRIZA for hospital doctors, where up to 12 hours of continuous work with a presence in the workplace is foreseen. And at the same time as his strike law laid the foundations for the trade union movement. And now New Democracy is building even worse on the ground it found. Also, these new rivals are included in the National Recovery Plan, which is the bridge between Greece and the Memorandum of Understanding with the Pan-European Super Memorandum, which is the European Union's Recovery Fund. Of course, the funds of the fund come from the people and will be directed to the large groups of so-called green and digital development, and for each disbursement from the fund new anti-corruption measures should be put in place to ensure the profits of new investments. In other words, the Recovery Fund is the new chain for the people of Europe. So much for the European Union to provide billions of euros, of course, without demanding slavery and new chains for workers. Just this anti-galactic prerequisite avoided SYRIZA and the other parties, KINAL and Mera25, who voted against the bill, because Greece's entry into the Recovery Fund was welcomed by everyone outside the KKE. Of course, government and civil parties have diligently silenced them because you worship the European Union. As we do not forget that SYRIZA condemned and promised that it would abolish HISBIA, but maintained it. Or he created a fight against the memorials and brought a third one as a government that you all voted for. So his promises are not acceptable. We are well aware that not only will the Recovery Fund go to groups, but also the governments to disburse them will take further hostile measures for workers, such as the ones in today's anti-corruption bill - an abortion, which we demand to withdraw because it is only for garbage. We therefore call on the people to participate massively in tomorrow's strike and mobilisations because in the struggles in the people's world it is the hope to overthrow capitalist barbarism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou and the consistency in time. You are also grateful to the next speakers for the same. Remind me that we are in number ninety-six out of a total of two hundred thirteen colleagues. Only two parliamentary representatives have spoken. The Chiefs haven't spoken. It is a pity that some of our fellow Members cannot speak at the end, because others are being abused in time. Mr Baran Burhan has the floor now from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's political developments oblige us to make our agony public in the clearest way, but at the same time our proposals to prevent a major social and national adventure leading to the adoption of the employment bill which the government is trying to establish. It is impossible to meet the increased needs of the people and the modern challenges that they are facing in the most handy way, undermining once again the fairs of many by serving them as employers. Once again it is evident that this government does not have a sense of the pulse of the middle Greek and middle Greek. With this bill, the hot potato moves into the hands of the average worker, who, after the financial difficulties of the pandemic, must also assume the role of the negotiator to re-establish his rights that he has struggled with enormous struggles and effort to maintain them. The so-called modernisation of the labour market camouflages the anti-government measures without ensuring proper conditions for decent work, but also healthy entrepreneurship. There is no care for young people, no comprehensive plan to ensure the conditions of the future. On the contrary, what does the government do? It scans everything at the altar of the supposed competitiveness of the economy. How? First, with the abolition of the eighth, second, the right to strike, third, the protection against dismissal and the right to collective bargaining. This reveals the Government's insistence that collective bargaining prevents development. If, in fact, the development of the people is carried out in the hands of the people with the full immunity of the strong and the weak are exploited. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of a crisis, it is not possible to settle the labour market. It's the wrong time point. The worker is the powerless person because of his need for work, particularly in exceptional circumstances, and on the other hand, we have a government that stubbornly refuses to increase the minimum wage, which now enables the employer to work harder to get off the ground, but not to increase his poor income by paying overtime. At the opposite of all this is clear is the proposal of the Change Movement to increase the minimum wage. The individual contract will, of course, contribute to an even more flexible use of new cheaper overtime and will serve mainly multinational companies in our country, maintaining the majority of its staff in main work and of course without trade union representation. Unfortunately, we still have a long way to go and many will be the difficulties that will arise in the economy and society as soon as the government support measures are withdrawn. Many small and medium-sized enterprises, now surviving on exceptional support measures, have you wondered, ladies and gentlemen of the government, how will they be able to cope with the next day? What will the consequences for these enterprises and their workers with the termination of support measures be? Clearly, therefore, the subsequent coronary crisis will have the signature of the current government. All these problems have now led our country to a downward course that seems to be irreversible. The citizens, being alarmed by the coldness of the measures and the new anti-government and autocratic bill, showed in the most powerful way, with their strikes and mass participation in all the major cities of the country, how the world of work really feels. It goes without saying about the democratic fact that PASOK was, is and will be the pillar of labour rights and by extension of democracy. It was our sideline, it is and will be the one fighting for the workers, creating the conditions for fair distribution, equal rights and improving the quality of their lives. What we are fighting for is workers with rights, with dignity and high head. Mr Minister, I have been both on the part of the workers and on the part of the employer. I am very sorry but such an authoritarian and undemocratic bill could never vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u57	We are also grateful to the honourable Member and to him for the consistency in time. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Manosos Voloudakis, now has the floor. For you to know the next three, four: After the speech the Parliamentary Representative of the Movement of Change Mr.Scandalidis, Mr.Ioannis Gioulas, from SYRIZA, and then Mr. Stavros Kalogannis from New Democracy, and immediately after the President, Mr. Voutsis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the essence of the bill, before entering the main part of the bill, I would like to refer briefly to an amendment that I have tabled, which concerns a specific category of workers in the American Maritime Easiness of Souda, who so far have been deprived of a number of benefits, do not fall within either the public or the private sector category, and there is a risk that two points will remain in its scope to continue to have this problem. What's the problem? I'll say it as described in this bill. Articles 25 and 33 specifying the scope of the new favourable arrangements for parental leave, paternity leave, etc., shall be determined as to those employed in the public and private sectors. These workers are a special category because they are recruited by the Greek State, by the Hellenic Air Force in particular, but are not employed in the Greek State in the strict sense of the term, they are employed on the US base. This has deprived them of their maternity leave and the related benefits of the OAED, while they have the rights of private-sector workers otherwise, but have ultimately less than the rights of private-sector workers. I have tabled this amendment and I would ask you, Mr Minister, to accept it. I know that, at first, you see it positive, I would like to believe that by the end of the debate technical issues will have been resolved so that it can be accepted. I'm now entering the main part of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the political dialogue, especially on big issues, can cause some confusion to anyone who watches it and is not in the process and does not have the time to read a bill, say. But honestly, I never remember the noise that is created to have such a long distance from what the reality is. The day after night is the opposition argument with the substance of the text that we are discussing today. I should like to mention in summary some of the provisions, which have also been passed in the debate, are not very much concerned and are, however, very important and I cannot imagine who can be the representative of them. The right to electronic decoupling, ladies and gentlemen. Since there has been a mobile phone and an e-mail for many employees, the working hours have been abolished. What happened to this day? Nothing. What did legislation provide for this? Nothing. The worker could work practically all day. For the first time, there has been a regulation saying that 'no, except for working hours, the worker has the right to disconnect'. Secondly, there should be no counterpart: in recent years the famous work platforms, on which the children of delivers, couriers, etc. have been working. With some loopholes in the law, these people are now employed as partners, as partners in these large companies. Are they really partners? No, of course, the little partner boy. Has this legislation been dealt with so far? No, he's never been treated for the first time. Who mentions it? What does the Left that is being cut for the world of work say, and in particular what have you done, especially the SYRIZA colleagues, four and a half years for these two key issues, electronic decoupling and the workers on the platforms? It is not the krone's story or pandemic that may have become more visible to the pandemic, but neither the cell phone and the e-mail exist from the pandemic nor the workers on the platforms designated as partners. There are others that are only positive: paternity leave and other parental leave, banning the new father. This is not only because they strengthen the family as such, the ability of the man to make a family and live a family of normal life, they also eliminate discrimination against women, because so far some employers have avoided recruiting women because they could not be fired if they become pregnant. The same will happen from now on with the fathers who cannot be fired. This is, in practice, a lifting of discrimination against women and, in practice, a strengthening of the family that is necessary in view of the demographic problem. We are not one of those who say "do not need to do anything about demographics, come immigrants", we want more Greeks to be born. The digital working card: What the GCC has been asking for all these years. Why didn't it ever happen? This will ensure that the overtime is controlled, so that employers can more effectively check on what will be done with the adjustment of working time for which hypocrisy has been left out. Here's really the day has come. There's been a terrible cliché contest here. We've heard it all. We heard about the middle ages working, we heard the gala, we heard the abortion. All that I'm asking, aren't you tired of saying it, ladies and gentlemen? As long as I've been in politics, I think I hear them several times every month from the Left. What, then, is this arrangement of working time? The possibility for the worker, for example, for some time on his own request, to work instead of five days for eight, four days for ten. Have you asked many private workers, ladies and gentlemen, especially SYRIZA, if they want this? Do you know that in practice many, anyway, are working for ten hours today and because there is no digital working card today, is that not controlled? You know that way they'll earn 20% in their travel times every week and what do you have to say about it? That work will be paid off. This is purely political fraud, ladies and gentlemen. Forty hours the worker was working for the five-hour hours, forty hours he will be working for the four-day hour, if he wants it and pays forty hours in one case, forty hours in the other, with all the other benefits we have mentioned. You can't hide that. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it says your slogan between the other clichés and cod as the journalists say, we have seen a new slogan: that only clocks work endlessly. Wrong, I know a watch that's stopped. Your clock, your time has stopped in the 1980s, ladies and gentlemen, where you support the workers of the ECHO, who may indeed have reason to react, where they then directed the Greek state, but this time has passed unreturned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u59	We are also grateful for the consistency in time. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kostas Scandalidis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is the second time that I have heard a report, after Mrs Bakoyannis, from the previous colleague for the 1980s and from the labour market and overrun. I mean, the workpaper in Greece died along with Makri and Theodoros. From the unspeakable memory of the right that ruled the country and destroyed every institution. Well, not the democracy that came in 1980 and 1981 to take it off now that it was past and overdue. After all, I never sabotaged in the 1980s. Historically, I note it and speak very positively about the changes that need to be made from now on and about those bills that were indeed flagrant. So don't twist what we're talking about. I'll start with a little mention of something I said yesterday about the objection of unconstitutionality. Through the draft law you are making a crucial blow to the right to work and to employment which is no longer a choice for the citizen, but for the employer, when he can remove it at any time and for any arbitrary reason. The right to collective redress and representation of workers, when they are removed from the possibility of collective bargaining. The right to free time management when the organization of its leisure time depends solely on the wishes and interests of the company. Gentlemen of the government, the law insults you of the right to dignity, in general, and the dignity of every worker. I heard Mr Hatzidakis defend with passion and arguments his law and within me - because I understand what the law says, I am not yesterday - that with what you are proposing and you want to lay down, one can easily see your intimate faith and personal conviction. The life of our government would be fine, without anachronistic trade unions, without unwanted eight hours, without anti-national strike rights, so without the moral apathy to burden the strikers, without Sunday holidays and of course without collective labour contracts that are so counterproductive. Each one alone. This is the right thing to do for your government. That's your reform vision too. You call reform for the good that we will find, if we indulge in your paedophile call, you call it counter-reformists who resist this idealism, to those who insist that trade unions are not a lazy institution, strike right is not a social attitude, collective labour contracts are not anachronism. The juncture, unfortunately, to disagree with friends from the other opposition favours you. You are exploiting the impossibility of going on the road into the depressing conditions of the pandemic hundreds, thousands of workers. You are taking advantage of the frugality of the trade union leaders who are satisfied with the presence of a few thousand, even in today's context is indeed a success. You are exploiting the inability of the institutions to overcome the trenches of turbulence, to defend themselves only for the acquired and to give you the right to strike the so-called giangian of pleading, but, in essence, to abolish all rights. Fortunately, you always feel in the so-called public feeling against the badly-favoured trade unionism you are standing in this public feeling. You are targeting any collective action. You're saving the personal passive. Despair the participatory citizen who is invading your jobs, who is how you share the rich pie he has received, who will gain from the dissolution of the labour market, how to drive to the mobilisation of the workers. But you are ignoring a rule without exception to politics. Nothing more farce and more temporary is found from the throne that Xerxes sits in Mount Aigaleo, triumphing the Battle of Salamis and despising the wooden walls of Themistocles. You have ever wondered whether the Minister in the committee was prepared to vote against the measures for the 14 days of paternity leave, parental leave paid by the OAS, to deal with violence and sexual harassment on the labour market, on positive measures for workers and the other sixteen available to the press, the 20 positive measures contained in the bill. We will obviously not vote against it, but we will not allow the few ash concessions in the eyes which most of us are applying European directives to set at home a fire. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore come to your favourite point that you are trying to enter into the tabernacle of your resignation, baptise every bill, every policy, every act of yours, and almost all of your institutional initiatives are at the limit of counter-reformation. With your initiative today, you have overcome the trouble. This is an integrated counter-reform that is deeply dictated by your conservative identity and which reveals the real person of your authority. It is an institutional counter-reform because it dismantles and marginalizes the institutional structure of democracy. The trade unions and all forms of collective representation of citizens are together with Parliament and self-government. In self-government we met your anti-reform oestrus a few days ago, today the unions were set up. It's a social counter-reform, because it turns the workplace into a real jungle. The worker stands alone and weak in front of the employer, is released free of charge, and if he leaves to referee and is justified, he is not, as a rule. Business will fill blocks with uninsured workers working endless hours, paid with few overtime, stealing their free time. However, it is also a productive reform because job insecurity, the resulting reduction in workers' incomes, significantly weakens labour productivity at the expense of the national effort for productive reintegration. You believe that growth will come by presidential decrees, we believe that growth will come with a democratic planning that all the productive forces of the place have taken part in the decisions and in the implementation of decisions concerning their region, region, our country. It is a fundamental difference! Finally, and most importantly, it is a political and ideological counter-reform, because it dramatically reverses every balance between individual and collective, between passive private and participatory citizens. The substantial abolition of all collective bargaining and the unambiguous transformation of the individual relationship reveals the face of a neo-right authority, which in the name of crisis and evolution is trying to seal the new era. As much as you are trying to prove to us that this is the case everywhere in Europe, it is your policy that is far from the European acquis. I wish you were actually bringing a law after all this 12 years of crisis, which would bring the European acquis back to all aspects of the work and the working relationships that exist in Europe. I wish. And, anyway, if so far you have had the self-sufficiency of the one-way for your conservative model, the twin crisis and the state of Biden show a different way than yours. Ladies and gentlemen, the progressive forces towards both neo-conservatives and to the pluralist populism of all forms, left or right, cannot hide the face in front of the tectonic changes that are taking place. They cannot desperately fight in the backstage of events and barricades, so that reactionary policies will not pass, while the world is moving at space speed. They cannot stay in Chicago, which we will always honor as long as we live, and in its conquests. They must design a new Chicago. Change in America lit a spark. I'm not saying it's a fire yet. It can be done with the gigantic increase in public investment, the reconstruction of the social state, the redistribution of bravery with the doubling of almost the minimum wage, the protection of life on the planet and all others related to the state budget shown by Biden in the U.S. Congress. For this new Chicago one is sure. This time it will be in terms of democracy and not in terms of armed uprising. No progressive perspective can thrive with the worker in the corner and the citizen in the place of the person liable. No progressive perspective can exist without overthrowing the almighty relationship, the mutual political and economic power at a global and national level. No progressive perspective is unthinkable without reconstruction and consolidation on a new basis of representative and democratic institutions, without a genuinely new democracy, not the one that governs us. The age, ladies and gentlemen, will surely leave outdated dogmas, forms and practices behind. But the bet is whether it will be a time of rebirth and humanism or a time of barbarism and destruction again. And in this bet, timeless institutions will change Roots, change structure, change practices and goals. But they will not die because they live through collective historical memory and in their new form obey modern need. After all, this is the etymology of the term "rebirth": Death and birth together, through the historical memory of a new reality for the benefit of peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u61	We thank Mr Scandalides and the consistency of time. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Yiannis Giolas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. The government brings you the bill to protect work. Who, really, will protect us from protectors? Coat four decades ago. Our Government with this bill therefore abolishes and scans many-year-old workers' rights and conquests. They are now void by law at eight o'clock, paid overtime, the right to strike, trade union action, collective bargaining and collective agreements. It was so collective the hammering of the Abortion Act, which for the first time converged in their structured positions and objections almost all of the collective bodies that intervened with their positions in the hearing of the bodies in the House. Not less than € 44,9 but less than € 45,9 And I mean BSE. All the actors with the massive and dynamic mobilizations that took place last Thursday in Athens, Thessaloniki and in all the small and large cities of the country, waited for tomorrow. It was this time all opposition parties who condemned your atrocious bill. However, the representatives of operators, who were probably not expecting their reaction, were also co-ordinated. GSEVE, the Panhellenic Accountants Federation, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, the Plenary Assembly of the Presidents of the Bar Associations, lately and six former Ministers and Members of your Parliament, of the centre-right party. They have therefore caused the intense embarrassment and manifest irritation of the Minister, who expressed it with ironic and devious attacks on the world of work, of course targeting SYRIZA. Were all moved by SYRIZA, Mr. and Minister? Why is everyone fighting almost all of your amazing, modern and reforming arrangements and arrangements? The only answer is that behind attractive words your abominations are diligently hiding your abominations. As you used to us in the past, you serve us with one - let's call it - a pleasant determination. As you said, for example, the budgetary adjustment pact, of course, means austerity, so now you are calling the tenth hour a working day arrangement. What a nice peculiar expression! Of course, under certain conditions it can "switch" up to thirteen hours. Your answer is well known. Workers will be paid off or will be employed ten hours for four days to keep them on Friday to do their jobs, to deal with their children or to go to the doctor, because this tragic thing has already been heard. So raw, so cynical. In other words, they will only live to work and have a day to settle their personal obligations. Eight hours work, eight hours rest, and eight hours rest, cultural activities, personal interests, do not exist. We thought it was a acquis since 1886 in Chicago. So far twenty-five years of age is enough to be discussed and debated today. In other words, you're returning us to the middle-age work! For the first time, it is established with a request - let the employer's mandate be read - forced employee's leave, which will effectively be made available at times when the company has low productivity. So far, there has been a corresponding possibility only at the request of the worker. In order to avoid harming and laundering the workers, the period of stress of the company's work and the increase in overtime, where you are loading them from ninety-six and a hundred twenty hours in a hundred fifty, on an annual basis, but with the granting of a reduced increase and a clear reduction in their earnings. Three in favour of a job! Dispose of workers, lower pay and indirect benefit from not hiring the necessary additional staff. Next, we're talking Brain Drain, we're talking about unemployment! [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] And because they will be very restful with the compulsory day off, we also have Sunday compulsory work - do not sit down! - in a number of activities which have no meaning, and there is no need for Sunday holidays not to take effect. Pharmacopoeia, postal services, courier, logistics, data centers, even production of ready-made concrete, quarries, followed by a long list of complete releases for the weekend's work and slavery for the workers. We must not forget that the most famous "spatial" hours, where elasticity will serve business, but it will turn workers into a tire. He worked four hours in the morning, four hours in the afternoon or in the evening, and he has your time to move from home to business, and the whole day goes. Work, however, gives joy and life. So, what do you want, recreation and entertainment? Don't you make your cross you're busy? There's an army of unemployed out there. Known words, hairy of you. Is it or isn't he blackmail? Simply, workers must be continuously ready 24 hours. Not that you'd leave the trade union infinitely. The aim is to curtail and undermine collective labour rights, such as collective bargaining and the sacred right to strike, as well as the protection of trade union activity. The Union of Judges and Prosecutors has directly burned down the articles establishing and bearing even more burdens and legislative limitations on the constitutional right to strike, which, as it points out, is becoming void in terms of content, since 90% of the strikes already in existence, which were already illegal and abusive, by law, will no longer exist. You are abolishing the flagship and more charitable law of the country, Law No 1264/1982. In the public sector, as ADEDY pointed out, strike is essentially forbidden, since for the first time, apart from security staff, a third minimum guaranteed work was invented, which certainly accounts for a significantly higher proportion of workers. At the same time, reference to the mediator, who will decide, and the strike is, however, suspended. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need less than a minute, Mr President. Thank you. I have not mentioned the many objections raised by the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. In just one, I particularly want to stand and point out. It states: "In the science of Labour Law the authenticity of individual agreements is in general questioned, precisely because of the worker's dependence." It must not be legal, to understand the self-evident, who is the strong one who can impose its terms. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm hanging up. Mr. Mitsotakis said a month ago from Porto to have more and better jobs, fewer inequalities, better working conditions until you introduced this bill, making black - white and mocking the world of work and the workers. The vehicle you have chosen, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Employ ment, is the full acceptance of the continuation of the policy of the memorandum, this time with absolute ownership of ideological and policy. Tomorrow's gonna be a rough day. It will not, however, be the last for the people's struggles. You'll find us in front of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u63	The Deputy of the New Democracy Mr Stavros Kalogannis is called in Stepma. Then Mr. Voutsis, Mr. Poulas, Mr. Lazarides, will speak and then the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr. Skourletis, will speak. Mr. Kalogannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the draft law on the protection of work in the conditions created in our digital age and after the pandemic of COVID -19. This is a wide-ranging legislative intervention, which combines regulations concerning international obligations of the country and the incorporation of a European directive, in the direction of modernising essential regulations of individual and collective labour law. Amongst other things, the draft law ratifys two International Labour Organisation conventions on safety and health and the elimination of violence at work. The important directive on a work-life balance is also incorporated. The Ministry of Labour attempts to deal with workers' problems, youth and women's injustices, as well as anachronistic working arrangements, following the storming changes that have taken place in the area of employment in the digital age. The draft law protects eight hours and five days, combats black work and undeclared overtime. The digital working card, which is linked to the information system ‘ERGAN’, is established so that it can be checked at any time if there are excesses in the working hours of each worker. This is, indeed, an innovation in controlling undeclared and undeclared work. There are also rights for male workers, such as paternity leave and protection for those working in new forms of employment, such as teleworking and digital platforms. More fundamental areas of the draft law, which we are discussing in trade union law, are measures for transparency in trade unions, the introduction of civil liability for trade unionists who, while strikeing, prevent those who do not participate in the strike from working, the definition of a minimum percentage - of 33% - guaranteed service in the course of strikes for the common interest, for the protection - obviously - of the social system, as is the case in many European countries. As far as the working hours are concerned, there are no fundamental changes in the issues which concern eight hours, five hours and forty hours a week, in relation to the current system, despite the efforts and excesses - let me say - many to the contrary. Arrangements are being introduced in the framework of a working time arrangement, the safeguarding and raising of overtime in a hundred and fifty hours a year with a parallel equation in industry and other sectors, just as in force in the European Union. The bill also provides for the establishment of an independent labour inspectorate at the post of the Labour Inspectorate with functional independence and financial self-evidence. The purpose of this regulation is to exclude any political interference in the control of the labour market. With regard to the balance of working and family life, positive regulations are introduced in the draft law. There are fourteen days of paternity leave - against ten today - protection of the new father against dismissal for six months from the child's birth, parental leave for the two parents, and for the first time for two months. In order to deal with violence in the draft law, there is an increase in protection and in violence and in simple harassment. As far as teleworking is concerned, which has now entered for good in our lives and has obviously come to stay, it is implemented after an agreement between workers and employers. Teleworkers have the same rights and obligations as workers within the establishment of an undertaking. I have listened with caution to the rapporteurs and many colleagues in opposition. Many of them invoked Law 1264/1982 on 'democracy of the trade union movement', which is, of course, amended by the draft law under discussion. It is right, ladies and gentlemen, that this law is being modernised. It is universal the changes that have taken place in the labour sector - and not just - over the last few decades. In conclusion, the bill attempts an important step forward by adapting it to best European practices, such as strengthening parental leave, overtime, restoring working time, teleworking, modernising labour law, restoring injustices, abolishing anachronistic regulations. I mention, for example, the amendment to a 1920 regulation, ladies and gentlemen, concerning discrimination between employees and workers. At the same time, arrangements are being made for transparency in trade unions and measures which protect both the right to strike, of course, and the social system as a whole from similar abuses. In summary, I would say that the draft law serves the needs of work in the digital organisation of our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u65	And the Bureau thanks you, Mr Kalogannis, precisely on time. Let's move on, then. Mr. Voutsis is here, good. As you know, the former Presidents of Parliament have a little more time, so don't see the time and start asking. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, Mrs Syregella, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by reintroducing to the public debate the very serious issue of regulation, settlement and repayment of the debts of Parliament's parties, which has emerged in times of crisis. I will not replace the party president who wanted to ask the question and did not come to answer the Prime Minister Friday to the development of this question. I would point out that it was a mistake and it was a challenge - I would say - that the Chief of Staff Responsibility was not given the opportunity to make public, to make this top issue public, because it concerns hundreds of millions. I raise this issue to call on all parties - and of course, first and foremost, the ruling party - to bring to plenary and vote together the proposal for a law, tabled by SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance or other proposals and approaches, if any, if any, by the other parties so that, in the future, the Greek society, now knows what exists - and not only from the bankruptcy, but also from the two crises that have led to multiple poverty - how political parties and, above all, government parties are handling, managing, or not handling and undermining the general national effort on the crucial issue of the economy through unpaid loans. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you are ministers of a conservative folding government and that this does not even honour your rhetoric or your programming statements, because in the pandemic and by obsessively exploiting the pandemic conditions, you are currently bringing the krone of neoliberal reforms -'reforms' - to all the basics of the democratic achievements of post-population, local self-government. Previously, Mr Scandalides spoke of the bankruptcy, of the national health system, of education, of the constitutional provisions and guarantees of assembly and association. You are a government that is conscious, obsessed and crowned with the anti-government bill you want the country instead of going vigorously towardswards following these parallel crises to go backwards, to be conservative, to care for the most conservative views that come into the pandemic through fear of the world, but above all to fulfill notes, especially to satisfy great interests. And it is no accident - and I am linking it to the essence - that of your behaviour, your ideology, your views on women, which are among the most obviously affected categories, together with young people in these multiple crises. Only a few days ago we discussed the draft law on compulsory conscientiousness. Until the day before yesterday, there was this famous conference on birth and reproductive autonomy as it was called. It is clear that there is a strong government responsibility for the participations and the organisation of this conference. The naughty retreat after what has been written on the Internet - that is what this is about - does not take any credit and does not take any vote away from the puzzle of a more general conservative conception in this critical area too. This has also been demonstrated by the weakening of the General Secretariat of Equality and more than coexistence with demographics, with the family, with a set of concepts and needs and policies to be exercised on multiple issues which are obviously in opposition and in contrast to the continuation of a dynamic, fragile movement and nowadays for real equality. Are the Community directives, which come and the others in a number of articles in the bill, which have been welcomed, left a letter without spirit and without scope? Think about it. The shortening of the guarantees and controls, which together with the rest of the bill, the breaks in elastic relations, on Sunday work, how much does it help the family, women for their presence in the labour market, for their equal pay, working hours, for the possibility of men and women in family planning? They are concepts and policies, which are prevalent for employers, in favour of major interests. That's why I'm telling you you're members of a conservative folding government. We must be very clear, because there are ideological and political issues that go into our debate. It is absolutely immoral historical to assimilate opportunities, opportunities, guarantees between workers and employers. Why are you abrupt with her? If the committees were to be invited by all the parties by young people without a party identity, who in the pandemic - and we all have such confessions and all - tried to find a job or were workers, what would they have brought you to the audience? You all know that! Why are we silent in this Chamber? What blackmail fell, what arbitrariness was, what redundancies were visible or under the table were, what rights shrinking, what uncertainty within youth or older workers were these months, is unprecedented. You know that very well! It is in the real economy, even for small family enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, etc. That's the situation. Is he cured by this bill? Instead of realising the lessons of the pandemic, which are multiple and internationally debated, which are obviously in favour of aid, in support of additional guarantees, with controls, with increased wages, with greater capacity to combat unemployment, instead of directly or indirectly - because they have been analysed by Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulos and the other rapporteurs - you are promoting and favouring unemployment, you are favouring the establishment and reduction of wages and wages and, of course, you are leaving out, you are taking out the "flood" of which glossful guarantees and the checks that were in place, which could have been a hindrance to the simple worker before the employer. That's what you're doing. These are your lessons from the pandemic. So we didn't ask the kids, and we come here and say about the right to work. I have heard the New Democracy rapporteur say about the balance between the right to work and the strike. Is that possible? The right to work, and constitutional and legislative and historical, obviously exists and must be guaranteed and based on unemployment, against those who are the obstacles to work and to participation in the production process. It is not against unemployment and demand through strike for better living conditions. Nowhere has that been heard. This is a classic argument of the strike, it is a classic argument of social automation. Also, you restore the unlikely ideological argument - a commitment you have - which ultimately leads to over-exploitation and over-profit that - my own elastic forms, the reduction of pay, the possibility of redundancy, aid investment, help the investor, help growth. Historically, even in the picnic before pandemic and before economic crisis of neoliberalism worldwide within the limits of globalisation, nowhere has the truth of this argument been demonstrated. On the contrary, it is the closure of the eye to interests for over-use and for extra profits. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that you have waged a war against work. You have declared the war against labour, and I believe that we are all working and will also work for the workers and the unemployed or society to lose this war. The same guidelines and commitments to the Recovery Fund show that we are going for new and heightened inequalities and going for a totally biased policy in favour of those who have won, won, won or won, or in any case, have not lost in the two parallel crises. On the substance of the matter, you are nowhere to take care of the micro-loans, of unemployment, of their own work and their support, of productive development involving workers and workers. On the contrary, you very clearly want to lead the country to what was also mentioned by our rapporteur in a special economic area within the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I would like to say very clearly that, with today's bill, today's initiative is a political, ideological and social step towards work, there is more than ever the need for alternative progressive governance in order to defeat these policies and to defeat the new right's governance. We are making a challenge and an invitation to all the social actors, to unions, particularly to young people, to new forces and to a new dynamic that must exist, to scientific unions, to professional associations, to parties of the wider progressive democratic arch, to society itself, to unite, to succeed and to achieve through conditions of transparency, struggle and struggle to defeat these policies, the new coalition of social and political forces, which we expect to have backbone of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, so that as quickly as possible, not only to defeat these policies, but to open up a new page of real progressive reforms and progressive governance in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Andreas Poulas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative interventions for work at both European and national level have started since the early 1990s and the proposed draft law is not surprising. We are not in the face of the wrong transposition of Union law or of malicious wording, but of a conscious choice: increasing impairment of labour rights, abolishing protective legislation and introducing restrictions, canceling constitutional provisions for the benefit of flexibility and greater profitability of businesses. A bill of your Government to regulate the labour market was enough to bring people and society on the streets. Although you tried to blackmail the parliamentary consensus by pointing to the hundreds of nine articles in the two European directives on violence and harassment on the labour market and on the extension of parental leave, which should have been incorporated into our national law for some time now, you have not achieved your goal. This is because your working arrangements of your own inspiration, which is the core of the bill, are far from the needs of the workers, away from the practice applied to the developed European states and away from the real requirements of the market. I would remind you that greater economic growth appears in economies with strong trade unions and inviolable labour rights. These arrangements are to be discussed today, which you think your circumstances are favouring, now that the economy is once again starting and trying to reduce the damage caused by imprisonment and the suspension of labour. The reality is that the arrangements you enter match colonial regimes, underdeveloped economies and obsolete times. They only engrave the poorly understood entrepreneurship of the predator. However, the debt of a government, which publishes the reconstruction of the economy, is to serve that model of growth based on clean and stable rules and not to favour immunity and exploitation. You bless every employer's overtime, such as increasing the working hours of supermarkets by 22.30' per day, but also the systematic and deliberate violation of workers' working hours which, due to a pandemic, work overtime from home without additional pay. And let us not answer that you enter the digital working card, because its implementation will be pilot and, after 2022, by closing the eye on those employers, who, as permanent violators of labour law, do not understand either hours or overtime. At the same time, the workers who raised a significant weight of the consequences of the pandemic live with fear and insecurity to maintain their jobs. Also, the teleworking method implemented throughout this period has had an impact on both the mental health of the worker and on his personal relations and on his family peace. And then you wonder about the ingenuity that came recently with the multitude of conference that was finally postponed. How do you expect births to increase when the average of workers in Greece is low, when high taxation reaps, when working hours are exhaustive and when mothers - working after the time elapsed by the birth of their child protected by the law, often see the door of exit from work? Instead of protecting what are you doing? You degrade the APRC by turning it into an independent authority with an administration chosen by the government and contract staff, where all together will serve the government directions and commands, with an independent authority that will never be able to replace the authority and credibility and the work done by a public body. But you, instead of supporting the RCF with staff, with permanent young children with an appetite for work, with computerisation, with infrastructure, put the ball on the platform by disorientating society that what was meant for its inability to respond to its work was that it had not been converted into an independent authority and not its abandonment and the gradual "extraction" from infrastructure, staff and responsibilities. You encourage flexible forms of work, payroll, an increase in parttime working hours and allow the employer to prohibit access to work to that worker, who has received a dismissal notice, by transferring the burden of proof from the employer to the worker. In order to increase the minimum wage, neither a single word nor a single word, nor to satisfy the demands of health to become heavy and unhealthy. In fact, the Committee on Heavy and Unhealthy has met since September 2020. So, what's going on? All the way. Why is she there? What do we see on the other side? We see the United States of America. What's going on there? They increase wages in order to increase consumption and demand after pandemic. Another philosophy where? Inside the heart of capitalism. It is a pity that you are bringing this deregulation and purely class bill to the vote, while other important issues of the Ministry's competence are overtaken by you. What about the pensions? The award of the pensions that it is? How many years do people expect? What do you do about this matter? That's what's important. These problems of the Greek people must be solved. Here's the thing. You're still moving to privatization everywhere. Mr President, I shall conclude by saying this: the government introduces a bill which unambiguously reveals its toxic designs and class directions. It does not meet the needs of work, nor does it meet the real economy. It is a clear recompense for your party letters to those who supported you to rule today. Response to the needs of the economy and society is only a fair redistribution of wealth, stable labour legislation, control of employers and a profound change in labour and employers' culture. This was only achieved by one: Andreas Papandreou in 1981. That is why the people loved him and even reminded him today of the hope that he gave the worker, the worker, the farmer. So let us not underestimate people's intelligence. Sometime the bill will come to you too. Gentlemen of the government, you made your choice. You're the people who serve interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u69	The Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Akarios Lazarides, is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, today's choices judge tomorrow's world. Especially clichés, you'll tell me and I'll agree. This is because tomorrow's world has already been judged by its choices yesterday, and I would say that they have condemned it both in mental and institutional shields, because none of you, who are now in the pretext of rebellion, has really taken care of it. What do I mean? I simply mean that, with regard to our work, not you, today, we add protection filters to an already distorted and deformed working environment. We, not you, are giving the worker the guns to secure his rights. Today, not you, but the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, through the Minister of Labour Kostis Hatzidakis, is right to legislate in favor of safeguarding the eighth and fiveths when the average working hours in the private sector today are 10.3 hours six days a week. And we do so without ideals and anachronisms, with the sole aim of realistic adaptation to working reality for the benefit of the workers. We don't hide behind our finger. This bill is not even a top institutional section. It is, however, a brave attempt to adapt and update the conditions in favour of workers. For you, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population, it is an opportunity to do this, which you know to do better, to say no to everything and thus to prove once more to the Greek people the self-proof, the absolute impotence of arguments, the total lack of adaptability, your persistent idealism, the annoying matching and collapsing with a zombie union, your attachment to requests, slogans and practices even of the very distant 1980s. The artisanal skeptic of the matter proved to be superfluous when before you even read the text of this draft law, you had already made a predetermined decision on the abolition of the eighth. Well, to finish this spiral, the government not only abolishes the eight hours, but on the contrary shields and puts order in the arbitrary conditions, observed in the workplace. So come on, ladies and gentlemen, to list together what each and every one of you will say no tomorrow, Wednesday 16 June 2021. You will say no to the implementation of the digital working card addressing black work and undeclared overtime, digital card, which was a permanent and timeless request from the GSEE. You will say no to protecting the balance of family and professional life that comes through the right of disconnection. You will say no to the introduction of new permits for parents and caregivers, such as the 14-day leave for new fathers and the parental leave for both parents by the OAED. You'll say no to the increase in overtime in a hundred and fifty. You will say no to upgrading the inspection work to an independent authority. You will say no to upgrading the ERGANY system by reducing the administrative burden on businesses and, of course, facilitating controls. You will say no to ratifying the Convention 187 of the International Labour Organisation on Health and Safety at Work. You will say no to the equation of the workers' compensation with those of the employees, the constant and timeless demand of the Communist Party of Greece. You will say no to extending the protection of workers from vacant redundancies and introducing an additional three-fold compensation instead of re-entry in the other cases. You will say no to the firewall, which we are raising for women either in the face of unemployment rates or the threat of dismissal, which is related to arbitrary and harassment. You will say no to establishing the conditions for transparency and consolidation of the trade union movement and strengthening its representativeness by facilitating workers' participation in meetings and votes. Ladies and gentlemen, I could go on for a long time, however much I say, but you will say no. Besides, if you change your mind and decide to say yes to some of them, while at the same time insisting on a complete withdrawal of the draft law. Apart from this obviously schizophrenic approach, three things are becoming abundant. Firstly, you say a great deal of yes to undeclared work, to perpetuate the injustices of lawlessness and arbitraryness. Secondly, that we are losing as a state another chance to talk nationally about the real agenda of work that is no other than talking and seeing together, but not horrificly, the catapult changes in terms and conditions of work, brought by new technologies, artificial intelligence, robotics, Internet and so many others, which are already with us. And thirdly and most importantly, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population, that while I will be able to say to George from the basin, to Theme from Palaiochori and to Giannis from the Free Kavala with pride in the protection that the government provides them, you will reassure each other for another fulfilment of your "agonist" obligation, as you will attempt to unsuccessfully sell the work of the middle ages that is not coming. Unfortunately, this will be done for you once again in the interpretation of the workers and their rights and, of course, the Greek people. I am, of course, voting in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Given that the Minister will speak about 12: 30, Mr Skourletis has asked to wait for the Minister to hear, so I am not speaking now. I invite my colleague to Stepma by SYRIZA, Mr Emmanuel Thraniotis, and then Mr. Bored. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, will remain in history as the only one that managed to rally against the vast majority of workers, the sum of opposition and scientific bodies. Of the thirty-two representatives present in the bill during the debate, thirty were against. It is not easy to say that, as your rapporteur has said, the representatives of lawyers have been misled. The Chamber of Economics of Greece v., the General Confederation of Professionals of Craftworkers of Greece, which represents small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. employs workers against. The Association of Judges and Prosecutors, in its communication, points out that the draft law shakes the constitutional balance between the right to property, the means of production and the obligation of the State to ensure the moral and material elevation of the working population. The Scientific Service of the Parliament, the advisor of the state, expresses reservations and objections to the bill. Who are they defending it, though? Only you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the Greek Industrial Association and the Panhellenic Hotel Federation. You, Minister, have turned your criticisms mainly on the Left and above all on SYRIZA and the other parties. But why so vividly against SYRIZA? Because the SYRIZA government in years of strict fiscal supervision, due to you for not forgetting it, restored collective labour contracts, abolished the underpaid wage and increased the minimum wage by 11.5%. Thanks to this increase, people who are listening to us are getting the EUR 534 allowance today for those who have been suspended, otherwise they would receive 11.5% less. Because SYRIZA didn't steal and left the funds filled. Because he revealed scandals called constructions. Because finally SYRIZA supported between the others and the ESS who lifted the burden of the pandemic. He writes Mr. Manolis Kotakis, I believe you should know him: "In the same period of election, despite the negative climate in the political frame of Sfakianos, I must confess that I was listening from the good health talk about Polakis, Xanthos, as he allegedly responded to their appeals and solved them." I'll file it later in the Minutes. So here's why your fire at SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. You're afraid of him, because you without the systemic means you're paying you couldn't stand. This bill will remain in history as an attempt to weaken labour relations and abolish labour rights. You, Minister, regret to say this, will remain in history as the Minister for the Protection of Employers in common as a masters' servant. As I read the bill, my mind went to the word "fame" for the workers. Yannis Damilas describes in his book "family" as the slave, the servant. The book, of course, refers to the era of absolute class discrimination, the era of oppression, the absence of any right. Article 59 introduces individual contracts and abolishes social dialogue. Working time will be regulated by an individual contract with the upper hand of the employer. "As much as you like" is the usual answer a worker takes when asking for work. The bill affects the social majority and all the employees, affects the unemployed as it encourages over-exploitation by reducing workers' earnings and prevents recruitment. It particularly hits the new generation, condemned in a future of cheap labour and job security without rights and will lead to further strengthening of Brain Drain. It abolishes eight hours and reduces wages. It imposes ten-hour work with a reduction in pay, the waste hours, part-time work and the doubling of cheap overtime. Because you want to turn the country into a special economic zone for the sake of multinational groups. Remove the APR and turn it from a social service body into a purely collective mechanism. Disclose political responsibility for its operation and assign it to an appointed technocrat. In Lasithi, an area with a large number of employees in tourism and the rural economy, the AAR despite its subsistence played an important role in the fight against undeclared, denouncing and insecure work and in protecting workers' rights. This employer's arbitrariness you, with this bill, come to legalize it at the expense of the income and dignity of the workers. This monstrosity will work as it will only work for as long as you're government. Immediately afterwards it will be abolished. But his stigma will accompany you and those who vote for it forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u73	Mr George Born, colleague from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Thank you for at least not closing my microphone. I'm not a former Prime Minister to deal with this. I am a Member of Parliament, to speak of a bill that bears an unprecedented euphemism. You know, in older times, man is weak in front of evil many times, in order to curb evil, resorted to some euphemism. Thus a disease ended up being called a blessing, that is, near the blessing, the Pacific ocean with its fortresses was equated with the brush. So to those who resorted to these euphemisms there was an innocence. Here is a cynicism, a reversal of the concept of words and concepts. Let's see where the protection is. Who protects who? Keep me holding you so we can hold on to power. Who's gonna protect us from prostates? That is the big question, which arises today and the Greek people must understand with some understandable words. You know what? Some enterprises implement good working relationship practices within their own. And these good practices incorporate them into their reputation, their brand name and make them an element of competition for them. These aren't the business they asked you to do this bill. They are not the small and medium-sized enterprises that asked you to bring this bill. They've expressed emphatically on every ton that it's against this bill. So who asked you? Few and strong. They asked for it, and they impose it. You do not come to protect good practices. You're coming to protect a torque of some toward immunity. Make them stronger than they are today. That's exactly the immunity you're coming to guarantee. You open the door to the eight-hour abolition. We're not telling you that. The Scientific Service of the House itself tells you. Are they Activists too? Have you been missed by such activists in Parliament? You're experts to make such cleansings. It's not possible! They told you that too. You know very well what the strike in the private sector represents in today's conditions, namely what Caucadian double-tracked workers need to go through the private sector to make a strike. And with this knowledge, what are you doing? You want to hit the core of the right to strike. You want to allegedly bring the right to work against the strike. Whilst it has been clearly stated to you that the question of establishing the right to work goes through the treatment of the unemployment monster. That's the point, unemployment, that's the ghost. Because you want to present a record - a story - that is the case here: that the employer and the worker are two who can sit at the table and as good partners to find them for the days of next week on an equal footing, an agreement between gentlemen. This fairy tale you want to present, while you know that this thing has not been the case in today's conditions for too long. We'll get to the point where unemployment means an endless day off. There will be no olive groves, according to the Minister. You know what? Once in Aetolokarnania, the olives were taken down by pearl. Now there is no reed because some have taken it, and they have been blamed, galvanizing with arrogance, complacency, considering that they have built a protective, propaganda shell and in there are untouched. "You have the right to speak as long as no one listens to you as long as they don't share the voice." Here, then, one must tell you with strength and near the ear to hear that Greece is not an honor of a few and a mighty one. That democracy is not an inherited feud. And that's what the Greek people have to tell you. We have reached a point, in my opinion, that an alarm should take place. The opposition parties to the extent of being lifted out of egos as much as they impose a need to wake up because the government bets on apathy, inertia, on the drug of propaganda. So there must be this resonance, this alarm in order not only to remain in the defence, but to mean a counter-attack and to give the Greek people to understand what vision is, what ambition is for the future of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u75	We will close the list of the last speaker, Mr Patsi, and then the Minister will be called. After the Minister, Mr Skourletis will speak, I do not know if he wants another parliamentarian, otherwise we will continue to flow with Mr Papastasis - I must read it - from the JRC, Mr Economou, Mr Dritsa, Mr Ljupi, Mr Kalamatiano. So closes the ninth speech cycle. After Mr. Skourletis, Mr. Brutsi will speak. Mr Patsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, the small and medium-sized Greek business is the backbone of our economy. It is the order that takes the weight to strengthen the country's economy, to create new jobs, to support the worker and the family. The Greek small and medium-sized enterprises are called upon to invest and produce wealth. Ladies and gentlemen of the Staff Committee, you four and a half years have been talking about investment, you have sought and celebrated them. You dreamed of growth and influx of money from big funds and funds abroad. But four and a half years have passed. Can I tell you why? Because you didn't really want them. It suits you and suits you with an old and anachronistic framework of industrial relations and continues there stuck. Of course, that is your ideology and your policy. This bill reshapes and modernises the business framework, as has been the case for almost all European countries for years, devours the needs of society and adapts Greek entrepreneurship to the competitiveness and challenges of the new era. We in New Democracy believe in healthy entrepreneurship, strengthen the possibility of adapting small and medium-sized enterprises to the data and requirements of time and markets. However, we also call for the implementation of the laws, the consistency with the obligations and the protection of workers' rights. We want strong businesses, modern, competitive, with profits in which they invest and create new jobs and workers' jobs will continuously improve through the development of the company. The position of the worker is identical to that of the undertaking. That is the reality, a reality of the world market and of the economy. Workers say 'yes' to the application of the digital card to finally deal with black work and undeclared overtime which, for some of you who are opposed to this measure, does not exist until now and therefore, there is a overthrow with this bill. They say 'yes' to the creation of the Labour Inspectorate as an independent administrative authority and I admit that I find it difficult to understand how the upgrading of the OSCE to an independent administrative authority, uncontrolled, with technocrats, who will supervise it, is a deterioration for you. Obviously something else you have in mind, but you're afraid to admit it publicly. Workers say 'yes' to the introduction of parental leave. Workers say 'yes' to working time set-up, an institution, ladies and gentlemen, which has been in place for decades in Europe and has been growing rapidly over the last 15 years. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, who are calling pro-Europeans, are not aware of these changes that are taking place throughout Europe or where there are no workers and there are no strong trade unions and there are no medium-sized ones? Unfortunately, you are still accustomed to an unexistent trade union, and you are also proud of that. You fortify in the trenches trying to raise memories from other seasons, assuming that in this way you can rise up and hold your party audience, because you really don't burn a nail for the worker and his family, you are looking. You cannot read developments and adjust your pace, simply because you have no place, but unfortunately you do not have any knowledge of what is happening around you on the world market. Ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, you have prepared yourself for this bill as if it were a great opportunity for you to be heard as Opposition. Unfortunately, for you once again you have lost. Next to trade union anachronism you added your own political anachronism. The world of wage earner has taught you. You're not fooling anyone anymore. Your attempt to bring back slogans and positions that were meaningless in Greece of Postmultimatisation no longer have any place in 2021. Wake up, if you want. Society has changed. Your rhetoric is now at the time of history because that's where it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u77	As I said, the Minister will now take the floor, and I think it is self-evident that I should put a few minutes more than that because one and a half days he has listened to too many colleagues, and he should also give answers. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with what we agree with. People are changing. New technologies come dynamically into our lives. Teleworking itself. The fourth industrial revolution is here. At the same time Greece comes out of a ten-year, unfortunately, economic crisis, deeply injured economic and socially. It's over. In this context, the government adopts a series of progressive changes based on our election programme, for which we were also voted on by the Greek people. We started, not to increase, as was the case with SYRIZA, but to reduce taxes. We started and proceeded with the reduction of insurance contributions. We proceeded with simplifying authorisations. We are moving towards modernising changes in education, the environment, spatial planning, and of course we will do all we can, not just to absorb, but to make the most of the resources, not only of the new NSRF, but also of the Recovery Fund, which will be a very important support for the Greek economy. On Thursday, it will be in Athens, as far as I know, the President of the European Commission. We do the same work at the Ministry of Labour. I'm going to stand up on three axes. The first axis is the new framework for the supplementary pensions of young insured persons, which will be presented and officially shortly, it will be based on what we have said in an election, based on an individual bucket, following the model of almost all European states and, above all, you will be able to compare the model that Sweden has adopted for years, a state that has been handed over to the social sector. At the same time, we are going to make the same effort to train with an ambitious, I believe, bill to upgrade training in Greece, as we have unfortunately been in the country with the biggest gap in the European Union between the skills given by vocational training centres or education centres, as well as to measure it, and the demand for the labour market, while at the same time we have the greatest unemployment in the European Union. It is not reasonable to act in the face of this phenomenon. In addition to supplementary pensions with the individual money and the new training framework for which, as you can see, we will also rely on new skills, digital skills and also in cooperation with international colleges in this area, we are moving towards the adoption of a new framework for the labour market. The main torso of today's framework goes back to 1982, about forty years back, but there are also regulations that are amended by this in the 1920 labour protection bill. What's our target? Our target is double. On the one hand, to support growth and competitiveness, because that is the way to create new jobs and to move the country forward. On the other hand, our aim is to protect workers, based on the forecasts of the European Social Charter and on the needs of society for cohesion. And, as I have pointed out, once again, we believe that there can be no business-free workers, but there can be no business with the tiles workers. With this spirit, then, we are trying to find the necessary compositions in this bill too, so that Greece can follow a modern path. What's that road? Where do we come from? We are inspired by the road that has been followed by the advanced European states. That's what we want to do with this bill. That's our guide, that's our driver. We have also referred to the committee and to plenary in a number of regulations, saying that what we are bringing here, there, goes on to a number of countries. We've named them. I would really be grateful if what you say, you also start to name what is in place, which is being discussed as policy measures, at least in the European context. So we want to move on. This bill has a number of measures. I will not go into one - one - is impossible in the context of this speech - but I have tried to group these measures into five axes, so that we too can get better contact and communicate with Greek citizens. The first axis is the introduction of the digital working card and the upgrading of the ‘ERGAN’ by promoting ‘ERGAN II’. "ERGANI" was a very important step in recording what is happening on the labour market, as it was also important that to deal with "black" and "supported work a politically costed measure was introduced by Giannis Vroutzis from the time that the Samaras government had been in existence, the fine of 10,500 euros for businesses, which had not declared their employees. I think that regardless of how the opposition was then placed, we all agree that this measure is positive and we must keep it. We, then, are the analgesics doing something that you sensitive people have forgotten to do for four and a half years that you have ruled. What are we doing? We are moving on to a request from the GSC, which is the digital working card, and we combine it with a central electronic mechanism operating at the Ministry and in the new work inspection called "ERGANI II". This mechanism will be a revolution in the labour market, because it will be recorded in real time when the worker starts working, what happens with overtime, what happens with the arrangement, what happens with everything that concerns his workplace. In this bill, therefore, which brings all these disasters, which you do not seem to describe, we introduce this change. As far as I know - I have no doubt that you know everything better - I have understood these months that I am the Minister of Labour that the workers' main problem is this. With those of me, at least, I have spoken, what they propose - they have other people - it is that their working time is not recorded, that their overtime is not declared, that there is no protection in relation to their employers, regardless of what legislation is. Of course, legislation is important and it is something that we must also see in our own spirit, but regardless of the legislation, the basic problem of workers is that. I would therefore like to welcome this measure of the introduction of the digital card and the upgrading of the 'ERGANI' to vote for it by all three hundred Members of the Greek Parliament. It would be incomprehensible for me for reasons of party empathy for some Members not to vote on this measure. We will vote roll-call on all the articles of the bill without exception, so we will count and see who is placed and how they are placed against this roller and on this small roller of the digital work card, with the destruction that will bring workers. This tool will be of general application. We will start from large businesses to catch more workers, but we will quickly move on to all enterprises in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance on the basis of the timetables, which we have also provided with funding from the European Union, from the Recovery Fund. I want to ask a question. We who are bad and want to have to have to deal with the workers and we also want to lose our voters - hundreds of thousands of workers have voted for us, but we want to be alienated, because, in our opinion, we are enough for the industrialists to be elected - if we wanted to harm the workers, why have we decided to introduce this digital card? I would really like an answer. Because here it is primarily a measure of protection for workers. No one dared to glean - nor within the extremes which have been said - that this measure was against workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u79	Didn't you hear us?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u80	Well, since it is in favour of workers, how is this consistent with your general iso-depressive criticism that we have taken the bulldozers and the rollers and want to level with the labour market and especially the workers? I would also like you to ask a number of entrepreneurs, see if they are happy with the introduction of this measure. Some people are obviously not bothering them because they are doing their job properly, but there are many who don't. Ask, to speak, not with a party wooden speech, but with what really happens in Greece. I also have a question for the new independent administrative authority, the Labour Inspectorate. If we wanted to play games with the labour market, if we wanted to favour and unfair, as you denounce and cover up our friends, hunt others and so on, why not keep the Ministry of Labour, the EIC, the College of Inspectors, as they are today, and do the independent administrative authority? But why did we vote for AIA, the independent administrative authority for taxation, in 2016, when SYRIZA brought it, and while we are bringing something similar now for the Labour Inspectorate, are you doing the opposite as young children? If we say black, you say black. Black is what we say, white is what you say. I'm talking about them, basically, to the workers who see us, so that everyone can understand the spirit of each other in simple terms. First, then, the digital working card and the independent administrative authority. Secondly, the reconciliation of personal and professional life. I have seen surveys where workers regard this problem as a priority in percentages, which even reach 80%. It's published, it's nothing secret, and it's repeated. What are we doing in this context? We're bringing a series of measures, too. They have been discussed in titles, I will mention two - three, so that we can only make the message more understandable. For the first time, we import paternity leave for fourteen days, paid paternity leave, not only for the mother, but also for the father. When the child is born, he may be away from work for fourteen days. We import paid parental leave for both parents, for two months, paid by the OAED. We import a caregiver's license for five days, so that someone can see their sick parents, for example. And, of course, we are introducing flexible regulations, based on Directive 1158/2019, which had been voted on, as I have repeated, when it was SYRIZA in the government and we are now incorporating it into national law. Flexible working time arrangements to reconcile personal life with working life to facilitate the worker, which are obviously linked, because the same spirit is generally based on the adjustment of working time. Now, because we are broadening what you have voted on, that is to say, facilitating and flexible working hours for parents with children, at least up to eight years of age, we are extending it to other parents or extending it to workers with no children. In any case, you have made a major political issue for at least two months, speaking - the Chief of SYRIZA spoke to me last night - about unpaid hours and overtime paid on a day off, even giving them to me. Yes, sir. Let us accept this in order to make it easier for the debate and for everyone to understand what we are saying. Questions: If it is what you say and we have unpaid tens of hours and overtime paid off, given that the system has been old and is valid in Greece for thirty years, we have just expanded it and went to individual contracts - first question - Mr. Tsipras, Chief of Police, did not know about it in the summer of 2017, when he went to the PAPASTRATO? Because the 'PASTRATO' has a system of working time adjustment, this three-start. Mr Tsipras - and I will put it back to the Minutes - among other things on August 29, 2017 - then Prime Minister - says various things - congratulates the company and does - among other things, say: 'You are not involved in these phenomena...' - which he denounces - '... why you have the chance to work in a healthy business, in a business that ensures employment relations'. I mean, the arrangement, the three-faced arrangement! I'd like an apology from Mr. Tsipras when he comes to denounce us tomorrow. Before he denounces us, let him say once and apologize instead of constantly pretending to be the prosecutor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u81	It's a collective agreement, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u82	Why, if we're talking about this three-dimensional settlement system, were there not when Mr. Tsipras gave it up for ten days? Wasn't there overtime inherited by the day off? And to criticise the JRC on this issue, I really understand it - I fully understand it, of course, I think it is completely wrong - but to do all the rest of you, the Change Movement that passed it in 2010, and Mr Tsipras and SYRIZA, who have this policy and these statements, are now beyond fantasy. Did Mr. Tsipras not know about this issue and SYRIZA a month and a half ago when you invited us to make the contract of the Pan-Hellenic Hotel Federation with the hotel crews? You accused us of late making it compulsory, we did it yesterday, but - be careful - the contract has a working time arrangement. The unacceptable system. The slavery system, which you have asked us - and we have done so - to declare it compulsory, not only for the companies that signed it, but also for the hotel companies that did not sign it, since, on the basis of the expansion principles, it was signed by more than 50% of the companies. I really am curious - I do not - and I would like to hear your answers. Thirdly, in relation to this. You're talking about the last shelter. But everything you say, Mr. Hatzidakis, it's collective agreements. In fact, they're collective agreements. Then why have you voted for Directive 1158, which, as I said, for parents who have children up to eight years old, clearly speaks of individual contracts for the settlement of working hours? And have you not seen that individual employment contracts are a norm for the settlement to the majority of the Member States of the European Union? I presented the data from the European Union's official website to the committee. Are you going to deny it? Will you deny that it was and is valid in Spain and Portugal, where the socialists rule along with the Left? So, should we be more left-wing than the left-wing Portuguese and Spanish? Is that what you want? I don't understand. Don't you realize you're doing one of the gaves after the other? You fall into a contradiction after the other side and you appear at the same time indisputable and hypocritical. Last question. You say - I have already heard it from a colleague who had come to Stepma and spoke - 'but, do you not see that the employer is more powerful than the worker? In this regard, will you allow an individual contract to be made on the subject of the arrangement?' Answer - and I would really like to give a reply - does that not apply to overtime? How many decades do we have overtime there not sign an individual contract? What's going on overtime? Suddenly in overtime, the employer becomes equal to the worker, and that's why you're accepting individual contracts, while it's bothering you in settlement? You don't mind settlement. You thought naively that with this bill you could earn some points in polling. But alas, you go from evil to worse! Because people realize that you don't care about the worker, you care about your party shop, and that's our difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u83	Pay them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u84	You owe 350 million and say shops?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Zachariadis, you're quiet, what's got into you now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u86	In any case, what I would also like to ask each Greek and every Greek woman who listens to us...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u87	You've got Barclay next door, snitching at you, that's the source of evil. KONSTANTINOS (KOSTIS) HATZIDAKIS (Minister of Labour and Social Affairs)... to sign collective agreements on the settlement, even to sign. But if there is no union in any workplace, or if a worker wants it to be arranged for his own time, on the basis of the European directive, which he voted for SYRIZA, what should we do? Do we deny it to him until he becomes a union or do you and we go and run a test at each worker's house? Respect for the worker, at least, should make you more glamorous, because the trade unions you are defending exist, as far as I know, to serve the workers, not the workers to serve the trade unions and until they become a trade union where they do not exist will be reduced rights. That really goes beyond mere logic. So I've talked to you so far about the digital card. I told you about the settlement and asked specific questions. I'm extremely curious to see what you're going to say. I am going to the third axis, which is the measures which strengthen the economy and growth and, of course, the worker, because when the country goes forward, the worker is going up. I am not going to do a great deal of work here, but I am going to talk about the overtime we are raising them, where we go to the European average and allow businesses to better meet their needs, but at the same time, workers to put more money into their pockets. And we also ensure this with the digital working card. The same goes for Sundays to become more competitive. The whole European south is open. We're closed. In this way, too, either the worker will put 75% more money in his pocket or more jobs will be created. We are also on the way to Europe, and above all here we are following the Mediterranean road, what is going on in Italy, Spain and so on. The fourth axis is to do with measures that satisfy various demands we have had from the workers for some time now. One of these requests is the package of measures that we bring. Maria Syregella, the State Secretary responsible, will later speak, and I would like to thank her for the cooperation. It is the package for violence and sexual harassment at work, which concerns, as I said yesterday, measures which reflect employers themselves. I referred to Article 4 yesterday. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Also here, in these measures that satisfy workers' demands, is the equalisation of workers with upward workers and, of course, are the measures that we take for self-employed workers in deliverys, or is it not anyone who refuses to do so? It is also about trade unionism and health and safety measures. Therefore, digital card, personal and professional reconciliation, measures to strengthen the economy and growth, measures which satisfy various demands of workers. I'm curious, too, to see what you're going to do tomorrow. Here I am curious to see what the JRC will even do in these requests. I close the list of measures, the axes for this bill, the measures we bring, the new rules for trade unionism. It is once again modern European rules. We say, let's say we should have electronic records. Yesterday I said it, I heard the groupings. This morning I saw the 'RISOPASTI' on page 5, if I am not wrong. I might be making a wrong page. It has a title and badly I do not have it here with me, which says: 'Achievements of the workers in Kosani'. He accuses the opponents of PAMM of various methods they did - I haven't checked them out - to control the Labour Center. Looks like there was tension. The police came, etc. Question: Yesterday, wasn't I? Yesterday, I wasn't saying the Step forward that we should leave the outdated settings and go to electronic registers so that we can avoid beatings, tensions and have a transparency status? I am therefore waiting here and from the JRC, which has denounced the workers today officially at the "RIZOPASTI" to vote for this measure, because this measure is the answer to this disgraceful, unacceptable situation, which I denounced yesterday from yesterday, today, by "RIZOPASTIS". [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u88	Minister, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u89	Mr. President, what can I do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u90	Then here's what we're gonna do. Because with the unanimous consent of this House, instead of eighteen, I have put you twenty-five minutes from now on, and I will take them from your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u91	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u92	Good. Go on, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u93	To give my own time to the Minister. The bill is important.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u94	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u95	We also have arrangements to avoid circumventing justice decisions. The Labour Centre is coming in and it covers a decision by a union from the nine of the metro, for which the strike had been declared illegal. Here, I think, we're kidding each other. It's a kitten that needs to be finished. They are also the civil responsibilities of the trade unionist when it is illegal when it resorts to illegal acts during a strike. You're against it. The question is: Every Greek who commits illegal acts, including Members of Parliament, who rightly withdraw their immunity, is accountable. Is the unionist the sacred cow for you? We're all equal before the law, except for the trade unionists, who whatever they do will be unpunished. All right, I can't say that I'm not surprised, but, in any case, I'm sorry to be sorry, we're going to insist on this regulation of the bill, because it's common sense regulation. We will also insist on the regulation so that, in the common interest, as in a number of European and other countries, a third of the service is operated so that it is not protected, as I said yesterday, only the right to strike, but also the right of the student to go to give his examinations, the sick person to go to take his medicine, the disabled to serve effectively from the metro. Now, speaking of trade unionism, it would be negligent, I think, not to make a reference to the strike that has been announced for tomorrow by the ADEDY at first and last night by the Work Centre of Athens. Of course, they have made their decisions and are also judged, as we are, of the bill and of our positions. Initially, Friday, they had made a decision, as the GFCM had made, to make a four-four stop to work and to protest, as they have the right, against the bill and against me and against the government here outside the House. Yesterday they decided to make this a 24-hour strike, violating the call for the strike - from at least our own reading - and the relevant provisions of the law. The questions, I think, are just. What changed from Friday that opened the four - hour stop at noon until yesterday when they changed their decision? Changed the bill? Do we have any new data? Secondly, who serves this change of attitude? What I see is that the victims of this new position will clearly be, because tomorrow we have pan-Hellenic tests, students who cannot give their examinations and their parents who have the same anxiety as their children. The ADEDY, which does not concern it very much anyway, will be placed as they think. I would, however, like to see the opposition parties, without exception, a position on this whole issue. Are you with the subway unions who decided tomorrow to close Athens or are you with their students and parents? Clear answers!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u96	Parents and students are employees.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u97	Also, I want to be fair. The trade unionists, as I have learned, of buses and trolleybuses have decided, with the same opposition to the bill, instead of us, to shift the working position as planned - it was morning and evening - and to make it from 1 noon to 5 noon. Why can't you recommend to these people, who are supposed to be fighting with them, to do the same thing? They're gonna mobilize them, report us, come here to protest, but they're gonna be able to give their exams. Am I asking for something excessive? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I want to close my place with a personal tone. For two and a half months this bill has been too high in public. And what I haven't heard! Will you tell me, is all Greece doomed to agree with you? Apparently not. I would also like to say that the attacks I have - to some extent at least - on this House by several of my colleagues in opposition were political. They weren't personal, but most of all the attacks I'm taking are personal, they're murder characterized. They're attacks that show nothing but that you don't care about the bill and its content, but you're nervous about where, how you go polling and opposition, and you only make one self-esteem and hatred. Yes, and a hate, indifferent to what you say - that serves one another, does dirty jobs anyone else - that the man, whoever is accused, has a family, has a path, has a presence in politics. I am not new, I have been repeatedly judged by Greek citizens. They have listened to this criticism with which you are now constantly wrapping me up. However, I have to tell you that since 2007 I have been firmly elected to the first and last elections - you know - I was elected to take the first place in the North of Athens where I am elected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u98	And you will continue to be elected!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u99	So, listen: Your Chief came out yesterday - I do not give you so much attention - and he also said the well-known worldly surnames. I don't pay much attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u100	This is what you are closing down, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u101	Because we are all familiar with this country, we know how prone Mr. Tsipras is to the truth, he has been divorced for many years and, therefore, I do not think too many people believe him. But you will allow me to say that we are all judged by our presence and by our work. I, therefore - because I have heard this - am proud that we have saved 1 million euros a day from Olympics, the issue of which I have finally closed. I am proud that I have dealt with the issue of OSE, which, in fact, we had a loophole of EUR 2 million a day, and it has not, of course, become a star of bright OSE, but, as compared to 2009, no matter how we do it, it is a better situation. I am proud of the effort to modernise regional airports, which obviously have nothing to do with what I found in 2007 and 2008 and you were across the street and when you signed the regional airports contract, you were crying - supposedly - out of your distress. I am proud that I found PPC's share worth 1.2 euros and today it has 9 euros. I did those things, the analge, the neoliberal that you're enclosing me with so many worldly surnames. The worldly surnames stay for you, for me the work remains.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u102	Close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u103	I'm closing, Mr. President. And should I tell you something else? From now on, you and I will be judged in practice, for all that you say about this bill, and we will be judged by the digital card and its implementation, judged by parental permits and - be careful! - we'll both be judged by the parents who'll get parental leave. We will be judged by the fathers who will be allowed from over 14 days ago. We will be judged by the workers who will see their equation with the employees. We'll be judged by the hard workers on the courier. You keep bringing disasters.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u104	Minister, please, get it over with. I have a hundred and ten colleagues waiting!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u105	I'm closing, Mr. President. I simply have a report here by MANPOWER on labour prospects throughout the world in forty two countries. Greece, then, will be tabling it in the Minutes - it is a fourth country in the world in relation to the labour prospects. Why? Because of the government's plan. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour and Social Security, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we move forward with our plan, move on to Europe's road, and you can take the galleys you are talking about and travel very quickly for the middle ages! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u107	Mr Paphie, listen: Mr Skourletis has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u108	For thirty seconds, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u109	Thirty seconds he can talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u110	I don't give you any time, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u111	Minister, don't you know that ADEDY has excluded those taking part in the pan-Hellenic exams? Don't you know that unions - to say - of buses - so the world can understand, not to say OSH - have decided to start when the transfer is over? What's the report for?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u112	The Minister said that, he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u113	No, he said it backwards. Didn't you tell them to start at 1,00 hours? Listen, I want to say, you know these and others know them: If you have in your mind to provoke the strike, you know that we are not today and we have taken steps.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u114	You said thirty seconds, it's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u115	I'm done, it wasn't even thirty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u116	Good. Just take, read the Minutes, for the buses the Minister was clear and asked for a similar thing to be done with the teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u117	And by subway!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u118	Just by subway, of course. Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. I have an idea: could I take the time of the next three bills, give it to me, fix the time, introduce this very nice innovation that Mr Hatzidakis said to us before, which Mr Hatzidakis supported in our Rules of Procedure? Of course, Mr Hatzidakis, I would like to thank you for informing me that you will speak and so, while I have had the opportunity to hear you and, indeed, to agree that the world is changing. People are changing, they have an unprecedented experience, the experience of pandemic. It is faced with a multiple crisis, health, a crisis of inequality, a crisis of immigration, a crisis of democracy, a crisis of climate. And in a changing world, it is sad that the Greek Government has brought us and supported solutions and plans supported by the neoliberal party for thirty years. So old, so glamorous, so glamorous are those proposals that you have already started and acted before the pandemic, you continue during the pandemic and it seems that you remain unrepentant. Have you come to tell us that it is good that you have abolished the contributions in favour of the OAS, that you are canceling a social policy arm, so - we will see this very soon - that there are already no social work programmes? Are you proud of the fact that you have ejected PPC's accounts and are we again in the face of a new treasury wave? We have the most expensive domestic current in Europe, and you are proud of this, when there has now been no EUR 1, nor EUR 1, nor has the cost of energy to households in very difficult conditions? On the contrary, through the reduction in EMFF, we also had a reduction in total charges.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u120	That's why PPC went down!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u121	It didn't sink, but one thing you only know, to appoint new addresses with secretaries and cars. So this is what you do in Buliagmen, PPC, not Buliagmen the Municipality. Do you know PPC's new organogram? So let the former minister tell you. Are you proud to simplify - says - the licensing procedures? So what? You have abolished environmental legislation, you have scandalously granted the obligations of ELDORADO in Halkidiki. Can private environmental auditors now replace public and public environmental legislation protection services and say that progress rather than anachronisation? Honestly, I raise my hands, but one thing I understand: As much as you have a person who always predestinates, makes a good mood, you are a sweet man in my mind, a film comes to my mind. I won't tell him, because then you'll get misunderstanding and tell him I'm doing you personal attacks. It is a film Noir entitled “... with the angelic face”. But in any case, what one sees is a obsession and a dogmatism, and you tell us that others like the privatization of subsidiary insurance are coming. You who, together with the other partner of the former long-term two-partyism for forty and fifty years had no interest in the reserves of the funds in the Bank of Greece, you who made the PSI, you who made the structured bonds. The 'you' includes both partners of bipartisanism, because your policy has been complementary for years to some neoliberal strategies that we are paying for. So I ask you: is the obsession with the reduction in labour costs confirmed? Which country did it lead to growth? You talked to us about growth and new investments. What kind of growth was that? With more inequality? Yes or no? How did the plan of internal devaluation, wild austerity through the memorials place our country? How much more should their workers and families lose? How many steps should the country go down to abandon this neoliberal dogmatism, which you come to serve with what is contained in the bill? As far as training is concerned, I should like to give you some advice. I hope that we do not have a repetition of the experience of the pandemic with the "SKOIL ELEKIKIKI". I imagine you've learned that. So you're telling us about the digital card. How's the digital card? It captures the real relationship. Yeah, it's a transparency, a possibility of knowing exactly what's going on. So much more important may be not only that, but the content of the relationships that will be reflected. So you come in and introduce the unpaid overtime that will be done with the law after you have given us the idea of independence of the EDP as an innovative idea. Look out, the APR is not a judge, it's not a referee. The SEA was set up as a tool for protecting work. That's what's pictured. That's what you're going to tear down right now. Understood! That's why the APR was founded. So it has nothing to do with what we call 'the role of independent authorities'. To tell you one more thing, a lot of what you say, you forget it was steps that have been taken in these days. The possibility, for the first time, for the worker to have access to "ERGANE" for the data relating to his terms of employment, the SYRIZA Government did so. I hope you do not abolish it because you have given the pandemic the opportunity to suspend the employer's obligation to inform the "ERGANI". Yes or no? So you have not respected the particular conditions and hypocritically you are coming now - and before my colleague from the JRC told you - to shed crocodile tears for the thousands of students after you filled them with many wishes for the strike tomorrow, while you know that OLEME had requested an exception for eight of the eleven teachers who make debts of supervisors. You know that very well. I don't think you've been informed. But hypocritically, you say: 'I'll say it. The Pecha mechanism will play in the media. Some will bite in the lie!' Say, say something's left. Goebbels, it's called this. That's how you rule, with ghell policies. You are hypocrites, though, because to these students you say: Write well, my child, but know that twenty-five thousand posts will remain empty this year. Why? Because your government's classic and discriminatory policy wants some of them, who have two and three as an import point, to push them into private colleges where they can get in there, if they pay, even though they are students of two and three, and have equal rights to those that will end the Greek public universities. How do you see this equation? Fair? A number of regulations are therefore introduced which aim at a single one, to reduce labour costs, because ultimately, not only by these arrangements, your perception of the development model you want for the country is apparent. You want a fully flexible job, without rights, the worker is under arrest. You're talking about unionism as a workpatient when you've been the party you've ruled with state union for decades now. What can we do? Restricted democracy and limited trade liberties we had after the Civil War in Greece. We assume that you've brained and that you've returned a page but no! This is where we see drawbacks. You are therefore hitting at the core of constitutionally guaranteed freedoms the concept of Labour Law. The law is called Labour, it is not called an employer, and it was a conquest with legal culture because it recognised between the heterogeneous relationship that exists objectively between the employer, the company and the employee the need to protect him. That is why it is called Labour Law, not Industrial Law or Law, which generally governs working relationships. That's all you want to get over even by violating your people's right hand. There are a number of those who recognise whispers in this Chamber that what you are doing is antisocial, criminal and leads to situations of deep antisocial, degrading work, marginalising work. So these are the contents of the provisions you are presenting to us, because they are based on a hard, ideological, authoritarian and dogmatic neoliberal core that characterizes your ideology. The concept of freedom for you is about the freedom of the employer to the immunity of the worker. The concept of freedom is approached not on a collective level, but on an entirely individual level. Remember what you told us during the pandemic period. The world was sick because it did not take on its individual responsibility. But the state, which was unarmed, which did nothing about public transport, which has been unable to support many cases and from November - cannot hide this - until yesterday we are in the worst countries in loss of life in Europe, that is not without any cost. It's your responsibility! And the most tragic of all is, after such an experience, because you cannot hide the real nature of your ideology, the Prime Minister will go out to a health forum the other day and say that we will have to settle relations between the public system and the private sector. Resuspends the reheated PPP food. And your MEPs in the European Parliament just a few days ago do not vote in favour of the lifting of the rights of the patent. Why? Because profits are above human lives, above public health. This is the core of your proposals. For you, then, it is the individual responsibility of the worker who finds no work. He's the one who's not trained. It's his fault he's sick. And you're trying to cut the citizen off from any social process. That is why I hear many of you here present without knowing what happened last decade in Greece and talking about populism. You did not understand the big twists that the middle layers were poor, that business closed down, that people in one day saw their jobs lose, put themselves in availability - the current Prime Minister did this - in education. To these instructors, these teachers who have cared for children and who served together with doctors in the public interest, who you leave them in the air and who now, one year after this health crisis, you do not have to present a holistic health plan with recruitment. We have told you about fifteen thousand recruitments and support for primary health care, but look at how you will give parts of the public health system to exploit private individuals. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill does not find any words to describe it. It turns us back and destroys the lives of the workers. However, I think - and I particularly address the forces of Progressive and Left-wing Representation - that there is an opportunity here. These polls now taking place show that most - over 60% - have realised the nature of these changes and refused to approve, does not consent to these changes. It is an opportunity, therefore, for the political forces on the basis of a proposal which promotes the law and the interests of the working world, to contribute, by opening up a new page and calling here and now for an increase in the minimum wage to 751, for the delinquents, hospitals, returning collective negotiations, expansion, reintroduction, reinstatement, to respond to the independence of the individual contract, which the Minister is falsely pretending to be, and says that it is introduced through European conventions. Do not tell us that you have also written the European conventions. Example of a bad legacy and a trick is what you're doing. You are bringing in self-evident European conventions to serve as a wrapping for an antisocial content. The antisocial content, however, will also be voted against by us and the conscience of the world. I think, therefore, that there is room to ask for thirty-five hours, to call for collective agreements to be reintroduced and, even more so, to abolish Memorandum provisions which have been imposed on us in recent years, such as the provision for the Union of Persons. Don't move your hands, colleagues. If you agree on these, yes, yes, no work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Skourlet, but close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u123	I do not ask you - and I shall end, Mr President - to lose your autonomy and discretion. After all, we are divided into a great deal of strategy and vision for social change and social transformation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u124	And for NATO...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u125	However, workers cannot wait when the political forces will grow. Here, then, we need unity and struggle.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u126	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative will now take the floor, Mr Brutsi, and then the list will continue. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of this vibrant, democratic debate that is taking place on this very important bill in this House, a reasonable question, by succeeding the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, would be this: All that she said about the work and its protection of heavy and unhealthy people, about further work relations, comes up vaguely, one question arises: Good, four and a half years why have you not done so? Four and a half years you've had the opportunity, rule the place, all that you're calling for and for us to quit that we didn't do it, you to do it. But let us get to the bottom of the issue, because I must, in advance, restore an ideological and worthwhile issue which SYRIZA constantly repeats. And now the Left does not repeat it all over the world, it repeats it over time. I should therefore like to say a few things about the New Democracy, our political party, my political party and those who are in this New Democracy and who are felt by young children and have been breast-feeding in its anointed system, as well as myself and Kostis Hatzidakis and many of the Members of the New Democracy. First and foremost for the New Democracy at the centre is the worker and not the businesses. Let's get this straight. We are not the employer's party, as you say. [[At this point the IV Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the presidential office.]] We are the party at the centre that has the man and the worker. Entrepreneurship for us, however, is the tool to be able to shape wealth and increase by means of this wealth, the standard of living of people. This is our ideological difference. You are the only one who defines yourself as a party of workers. A good word, however, about how wealth will be created - ideologically I put it - you never say. Because there can be no improvement in the standard of living of man or of the worker, if there is no entrepreneurship, through which we will attract investment to widen it, in order to increase it, we will allow it to increase its profits, through taxation, we will get it money to improve the basic public goods and allow the company to increase the wages of the worker. Are these done automatically? So, one morning you press the button and you give the possibility, you legislate, to raise wages to three times, or to increase basic public goods? How will this be done without public resources? Therefore, we ideologically, delightfully believe in the person we have at the centre, the worker and believe that through the private initiative we can shape that environment in order to improve its position in society, in the economy and increase its standard of living. Secondly, we have never believed and do not believe that competition and the improvement of business profits will come through a reduction in wages and impoverished workers or build on growth. On the contrary, we believed, believe and believe - ideologically and politically and politically - that we are doing so - to improve the worker with quality and well-paid jobs. Only in this way can this framework coexist with normal development. And thirdly - which I must also restore - we believe in collective agreements. There was no disruption in collective agreements. Collective labour agreements are a purely liberal measure, because they ensure healthy competition in an economy and through this healthy competition, companies can, without looking to the profit through the reduction in the wages of the worker, improve their performance through the improvement of the product they sell. And so it becomes a clean, healthy, competitive process not at the expense of the worker. Collective labour contracts existed and exist. Law 1876/1990 remains firm. These are the basic ideological and worthy positions which remain unnegotiable to us and continue to exist today. Secondly, it is important: listening to SYRIZA in all its criticism of the catastrophe we are hearing today by the SYRIZA MPs and from all the opposition about what comes through the bill at all levels, regardless of one or other article, as a whole - 'the unemployment will be increased', 'the workers will be destroyed', a thousand criticisms for the future - and I say this is not a new criticism, ladies and gentlemen. It is a criticism that comes from the past every time we try with a bill to modernise the labour market framework, as we should, in the new social and economic reality. Your criticism of the past, which is the same and the same, has fallen into the void. See what you said - I remember them - for the law that I had brought in September 2019, the important law under which we abolished the famous basis for dismissal, the reactions that you had brought, which we well abolished, which was a negative position within Europe's system for Greece: "The unemployment will increase" etc. None of this happened. The unemployment we are discussing, from 17.3% today, is at 15.5%. Unemployment continues to fall - and despite the crisis - through the right measures taken by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, through the measures we have protected jobs. In 2020, it was us and Italy that the two countries which have been reducing unemployment at the moment. And we protected jobs, realising the need for social cohesion in favour of the worker. That was our place. Secondly, a question concerning undeclared work. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight an aspect which has a particular value, because it comes through the bill of Kostis Hatzidakis and the government as a whole, with 'ERGANI II', to extend a little for what is coming with 'ERGANI II' and perhaps it is not well known. How have we won the most abusive, unacceptable behaviour of businesses - not all of them, those who are consciously working abusively, why are not all companies themselves - in 2013 with 40.73% undeclared work? As Minister of Labour I saw it then, with two meters. First, 10,500, which was not supported, gentlemen of SYRIZA, by you. You were against the toughest measure ever in the labour law of the country, 10,500 per undeclared worker. And secondly, 'ERGANI I', which fully shielded the APRC to be able to see recruitment, redundancies and therefore the APRC workers first had tools in their hands. How much undeclared work is today? Less than 4%. What does that mean? It means, Mr. Giuleka, that Greece in this abusive misery of businesses, these few, has won. The government won over a total period of time - and SYRIZA kept it good, and so this was the continuation of the state - undeclared work. Today undeclared work almost approaches zero, because 10,500 are afraid. And I will confess to you something, just like Costis made his personal reports. When I brought this measure, the New Democracy and the PASOK were also noisy at that time, the MPs who were co-population, I was against a wave of reaction. The 10,500 was a very tough measure. And I commanded the APRC arrays to go to my area in the Cyclades to give the first example that as Minister I do not collide with political costs. Then I said to the Secretary-General of the APRC: 'Go to the Cyclades', because I had as Minister to set an example first. The criticism on my face was impenetrable for the fines that fell on the Cyclades. You see, however, that this is ultimately vindicated because I was re-elected in 2015, it was a very difficult process and more votes I got from people who had been punished with this fine. And today this fine throughout the territory is the fear and terror of abusive businesses and entrepreneurs and we have zeroed undeclared work. What was born, though? In SYRIZA the alleged work, i.e. employer abuse, found a new landscape, unpaid overtime. This is the so - called implied work. This cannot be dealt with by the auditors of the APRC. It's impossible. And an APRC controller should have put out every operation, which is not possible, could not be done. So the state, Greece, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, which you now know, is coming to implement what is being introduced into this bill today, which I agree is revolution, "ERGANI II", digital hours. The digital working hours do not match what GSC proposed in 2011 the working card. The working card, which is a proper measure, will be implemented and already applied in some areas of the business market and will be expanded. The difference with ‘ERGANI II’ and digital hours is that the counter will not be reflected in the digital systems, the information systems of the company, the Ministry of Labour. What does that mean? It means that the APRC controller with a specialized very modern laptop will be able to monitor in real time, in live time, the worker and how long he works. Do you realize that we are too far ahead of all of Europe? This measure will defeat the alleged work, will help equal competition between healthy businesses and put the cruisers aside. And the fine that Kostis Hadjidakis brings is what he deserves to him whoever doesn't enter the working card. It's equal to 10,500 undeclared, because it's undeclared in overtime and we're gonna beat the alleged job. Its funding from the Recovery Fund marks something else. In 2013, in the Ministry of Labour with social security, we established the monthly electronic analytical work statement, the so-called unsubscribed unsubscribed to receive contributions from employees' wages. This was something very important, it was a very important step. What was observed, though? It is now noted through "ERGANI" that working time - listen to this - which is more than the time stated in the detailed periodical statements. The prospect is, therefore, to abolish the detailed periodic statement in due course - that takes time and preparation in the information systems - and the ADR is 'ERGAN II', which will reflect the real working time of the workers, and we will also get the real premiums for the workers. Revolution and this! But that's what he wants to do. The Ministry of Labour and Kostis Hatzidakis, we've discussed it, they'll prepare it methodically. In a few years to come, this will also be done. So, really Greece is taking the lead in the labour market, ladies and gentlemen. Review of the APR. All this time I was listening to Mr. Helios that the SYRIZA RC was working better and had more fines. Tell the truth. I always try well to place myself with dignity and honesty and truths from this Step. Indeed, SYRIZA tried through the auditors of the APRC to deal with violations. But he didn't do anything new. The self-evident thing was done in the work that the Secretary-General of the AED has done with the tools we gave him in 10,50, "ERGANI I" and it did work. The same work, Mr SYRIZA's gentlemen, and I am addressing SYRIZA's critical side, continued in both years when I was Minister and now in Kostis Hatzidakis. Never been instructed to do audits on the APRC auditors by anyone from either SYRIZA to be honest - you know that too, because you would have revolutionised - nor by us. The work of the APRC is concrete and is judged by its independence, which remains independent all these years and by the tools we give it. Regardless of the new organisational structure that will get through the independent authority the most important for the APRC is that it will for the first time have tools modern, such as "ERGANI II" that will change the labour market control framework and that will judge the effectiveness of the APRC against abuse of behaviour. I now come to the issue of fines for which you have criticised, and I hear about a fine you have put to banks and the rest. In fact, I asked you, at the end of 2020, to call on the APRC inspectors and I set up a committee, and I asked the committee after more than fifteen years to build a new framework of sanctions and penalties uniformly, because there was an abusive operation through the imposition of another inspector to put out of 1,000 others for the same breach of 10,000. That was neither normal nor reasonable. You know that, Mr. Skourletis, this and Mrs. Xenonanakopoulou. There were fines among them, which one was undone and one inspector could sink one operation and another could save it through the fine procedure. That's not allowed. So, after four months, the APRC Committee of auditors has brought me a conclusion, which is now a manual, the new framework of penalties and sanctions in the APRC. That's what every business has. Clean rules! Each business knows that the moment the APRC controller step on his feet if he falls into breach, he will pay. Not arbitrary things, not under the table transactions, not implied. Clear rules for everyone. And this framework of sanctions and penalties is a new reality for the EIA, but also for businesses. Clean rules! I now enter the other issues of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a bill which has a social, development mark. It is a bill whose practical application will not bring about the destruction that you describe. On the contrary, it will contribute to the social dimension which it has and to the issues relating to the insulting or violence at the workplace that was not there and we are adopting the European directive from the first countries or the issue of the health and safety of workers we adopt the European directive or the question of harmonising family and working life. A lot has been said for the fourteen days. That's positive for men. I should just like to highlight one very important development side that has not shown any Minister. The research carried out has shown that we are lacking in the development process in that women are not as attractive to the labour market and this is hitting negatively on the development process of the place. We are one of the countries of Europe that has the greatest negative attitude to this. What's this bill doing? It makes a double positive move. The first is to give men the right to paternity through the licenses he gives them. At the same time, however, through this leave which gives men equal treatment from business to women and men, so that the application of this law and this article enables businesses to have the same incentives to recruit a man and a woman. What does that mean? That there will be an increase in women's participation in the labour market and that will help to develop the place more. This is the second perspective that someone can see under this particular provision, which is very positive for the labour market, for women and for the economy of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all need to understand that things in Greece have gone a new way. We have left the financial constraints that we have adapted as a country to a difficult environment. We entered an exceptional pandemic environment, an uncharted sea which had not been calculated and which had not been appreciated. We did it and we get out of this tunnel the hard one. And now we have a new reality before us in a global economy that is changing, in a global economy and in a changing society, to new jobs that are being created. We need to adjust. The adjustment is the key and the answer to tomorrow. Without adapting to the new technologies, we are doomed to be furious, inactive in an environment of yesterday, which will be at the expense of society, and of the workers and the unemployed. These challenges are for us who, as a government, are the compass for our political decisions. Be sure that our political decisions are on the way to challenges that come from the future, a future that we now see every day through digital technology that changes everything around us. It changes these stereotypes that we've known for centuries in the world, everything changes in a few seconds. This Greek government is modern, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, a modern political, brave, courageous, as I believe most of us, if we leave party purposes out. We owe as political guides and creators of politicians in our country, which we are devising the legislation, the future of the country, to have the necessary courage and courage to open the roads not now for us, but for the future generations that come after us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u128	Thank you. I think Parliamentary Representatives and the New Democracy and SYRIZA cannot complain from the Bureau. The next five speakers are Mr Giokas, Mr Economou, Mr Dritsas, Mr Ljupis and Mr Kalamatianos. Mr Giokas from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. The Government and the Minister of Labour with their well-known monologues in the channels for over a month ago have tried to convince us, to convince workers of the benefit of adjusting working time, unpaid overtime, the abolition of Sunday holidays, the hit on trade union rights. What was the result? Eat your face, you're leaked. Your workers have responded with the most successful and mass strike in recent years and will respond to you tomorrow with a new strike, despite the attempt to stink up the fight of provocative workers, reaching such a point of grief to involve the students of the pan-Hellenics and the sensitive theme of the examinations when you have been the ones who have been afflicted these students for a year with telephony, with the front - back, with the balloon masks, with the tablets that have not yet reached the students, with me, with me. You were the one who tortured students and their parents for a year. And after you were leaked - and you know it very well from the measurements that you too have ordered for the acceptance of the bill - after you have been crushed with the olives, which will be collected by the workers, with what your Member here said, for the patient who will work longer to get two - three days off to get healed, as if there are no sick leave - unless you want to do so - with the students workers who are deleted from them on the basis of the v+2, after you have been leaked with all these arguments now, you are resorting to despair and slandering arguments and focusing on some of the individual articles of the bill to hide their total deep anti-corruption character. But even these articles that you refer to as positive are either some empty content declarations or conceal new anti-terrorism regulations. Let's see some of the things you've done and the Minister just before. Digital card. We have criticised the first time that this will be voted for by all three hundred. How about the digital card? He'll show, he says, how much the worker works and he'll deal with the black job. You're lying! Another is the real objective of the digital card, and that is why it is very much financed by the European Union. The pain for black and undeclared work has not taken on you, and you are also legalised by this bill. The digital card is the precursor for the implementation of active and inactive working time, to record the time when the worker will be working prepared, as you say, and will not be paid because he will not work, to record even the time to go to the toilet and therefore should not be counted as working time. This is the goal of the digital card that all of you, and the government and other parties, have pushed to adopt as a measure of transparency. Below, you're talking about the operator's right to disconnect and you appear as a great conquest. Do you understand what you're saying? The decoupling of the teleworker is as self-evident as it is for a simple worker to stop working and leaving the workplace when they finish their working hours and for the employer to be prohibited from working outside working hours. And that self-evident you are baptizing a right. Why? For if a teleworker falls under the pressure of the employer, the employer will have no effect. And what would he plead? That the worker did not exercise his right to disconnect. So here's where these innovative, and the modern, and the seaweed you're selling here for silk ribbons. We're not even talking about paternity leave. When you've had ten and twelve hours of work, when you've been pulling out on Sunday holiday for weeks, for months, giving fourteen days of work is what I said before, or selling seaweed for silk ribbons. You have reached the point, twice, the Minister, one yesterday and one today, lying and slandering that the trade unions are now supposed to be over-protected and immunized and cannot be fired even if they are sexually harassed. It's a lie, a sloppy, a bit of anger, and for the combinations you're trying to cultivate! Don't you know the case law of the courts on such cases? You don't know her and you call her cocks in here supposedly for immunity from trade unionists? But even if we accept that there was such a matter, why don't you add to the bill that in case of criminal conviction for a number of offences there will be a reason for dismissal and you put the 'big reason'? So that's the target. It's to target, to criminalize and prosecute pioneer workers from trade unions. In one thing we will of course agree with you: that these are the European Union's best practices for capital. These are the guidelines of the European Union for the reorganisation of working time and not just, which have been implemented for years, a step - step by step in the Member States. It has been a huge contribution over the years to the struggles of the class union movement, the JRC that these measures have been hampered and delayed. Today these measures become the prerequisites for Greece's integration into the Recovery Fund, the new memorial tomorial to the people of Europe, where every savings that goes to the green and digital economy groups will be called upon to pay it very expensively for workers with new rights losses. That is why no party, no government that swears to the European Union, accepts the Recovery Fund, which drinks water in the name of competitiveness and capitalist recovery, nor does it want nor will it be opposed to these laws. And here is the experience of SYRIZA governance, of SYRIZA's recent governance, which not only abolished the Memorandum Laws, but also on the settlement and on the strike and on Sunday holidays what he did? You put thirty-two Sundays in commerce, Mr. Skourleti. Nine months a year you put Sunday work for workers and employees. So that's what you did. This is what progressive so-called government has done and you are now coming and talking about 751 of the Memorandum Laws. Fifty-three unions, the largest union coalition and trade unions from SYRIZA have tabled a proposal for a law to abolish, after the formal exit from the memoranda. Where have you been? Where was the SYRIZA government then? Let me tell you where he was. It reduced taxation on profits and dividends from 15% to 10%. That's what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Gioka, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u131	I shall conclude, Mr President. So what is needed today is not just a movement that is going to delay and prevent measures, but a movement that is going to go through the counterattack, based on the organization of workers, the social alliance with the other popular strata and put in front of the modern needs that can be met by the rapid development of technology, science, labour productivity, and the possibilities today, which are in the hands of a handful of parasites. We need a new social organisation that will unleash these possibilities and this new social organisation is just socialism. This really is the only progressive and modern one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Economou from New Democracy has the floor and Mr. Dritsas follows. I would ask that an effort be made to keep time, because we are not even in the middle of the list of speakers. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, the mother of the fights is not going well. It does not go well because the tsunami of reactions and the attempt to create a political issue on the part of the opposition did not find an audience. The war speech in the Committee on Social Affairs last week - to which I have the honour of presiding, but I cannot comment, and now I am given the hospitable step to say my word - and today's war speech, namely the meetings in plenary, does not help and does not give the right ground to giggle the reactions. The strike with pitiful results. The events are minimal. The debate that is taking place on the basis of the workers' bases has no reflection on what we are hearing here today. Why? Why really are workers in a completely different world than parties and trade union leaders are in. The trade union leaders are currently giving a party speech. They are the long hands of the parties here, which are trying to create the major issue - supposedly - for the government. This party speech, do you really think, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that it is of any interest to the average worker, to the man of work, to the people who give the daily fight for biopolitics? Is this debate which you are having here today reflecting what everyone believes? Because if he really had a reflection, you can be sure that the vast majority of the workers would be alarmed. It leaves them icyly indifferent to your word, a reason party, agony and effort to amuse impressions from two depressing years, as recorded in the polls of a political leadership of SYRIZA, which at the moment is desperate to reduce rates rather than increase, its reason not to be resonated and to really try to set the mothers of the battles, which will give some oxygen. That's not how oxygen works. Political oxygen wants ideas. Political oxygen wants visions, it wants perspective, it wants to give the worker real solutions. And indeed one reason left in 1980 alone is that it is not possible for this reason to rekindle the trade union, social, or whatever you want to say. So here we see the leaderships of the parties giving their orders, the trade union leaders trying to implement them, but not to respond from below - to say it popularly - the polo. No, it does not respond naively because the party leaders believe that when the debate is taking place - let us say - the electronic working card that it is aimed at digitalally illiterate workers and therefore nobody will understand anything and in an environment and the reason for confusion and blurredness will be able to cross a line for what these leaderships have made their account. Yet the average worker realises that the digital card will give a very serious answer to what we all say today: there is a black and an implied job. There is unpaid work, the overtime that is not paid, and the only method you can catch it is not an APR, which I hear all the time. And it really is in protecting the rights of the worker, but here - by magic - we are again falling out because this is being upgraded as the government makes it an independent authority, that is to say, a better instrument for protecting the worker. The digital card therefore comes to record in the "ERGANI" clearly what the work is and what the overtime is. Isn't that what the average worker wants? He wants it. Does the average citizen of this country not understand that it is a measure in a positive way? He understands. Whatever we say here today, I, you, everyone has little value in the face of the truth. We are therefore putting issues very self-evidently, such as parental leave. Whatever you're talking about here, no matter what you say, it's a measure of important and of little value, is it really of little value? For thousands of workers who can make use of this measure, is it of little value? Oh, no! For you it is of little value because you will never make use of such as you believe or believe that this in the consciousness of the average citizen is of no great value. But you cannot listen to conscience, opinion and how the average citizen experiences things. For the average citizen, therefore, it is worth it. So between what is worthwhile in reality and what is worthy in your own designs of parties, there is a mess, a long distance. How's that recorded? Strike is declared and has 2% to 5% participation. You're protesting and rallying out, and it's a few hundred, thousands of minutes. But the hundreds of thousands, millions of workers, are absent. What are we going to do here and how, then, to interpret the phenomenon that not only did the mother of the fights become, but there is not even a reasonable response from our fellow citizens, private workers, let us take the public reserve? And I won't talk about the strike tomorrow because my child really gives me the exams and now he's gonna use a private tool to go and give his lesson. But I'm saying something else. We are trying here to safeguard the worker, the average worker without an intermediary party. Because if his trade union representative worked and dealt with the problems of work and the problems of his own rights, he would have another reflection tomorrow or today on representation and resonance. However, he does not care about the average worker, the agony of Mr. Tsipras, what he will do tomorrow to rescue the leadership of SYRIZA, so that he can use what we call a "working movement" as a front to save his positions. A lot of anxiety you think the average worker has to go to give his breasts for the party chair and for those who represent only this chair, namely the trade unionists, who only respond to this narrow interpretation and logic! They're on the sidelines, too. He doesn't put any government on them, no law on the sidelines. When he had a protest of tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of workers, or else we'd all talk and talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Economou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u135	I shall conclude, Mr President. When he has under two to three thousand all and all, it really looks like everyone's resonance and word. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that labour legislation is finally being updated forty years in the positive direction. It's a lot of beneficial provisions. The roll-call vote will be revealing and will record the hypocritical speech and the bill - an abortion, which will be forced by 80% by the gentlemen - if they do not leave the Chamber - will show why they are so low, not in polls, but in the appreciation of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Theodores Dritsas has the floor from SYRIZA, followed by Mr. Athanasios Lippis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. And yet, Mr Economou, the battle of the battles is going well, to your great concern, and it is changing things and it is no coincidence that - I do not know what staff were inspired by it - both the Minister and the rapporteur and the whole of the New Democracy MPs and MPs are working on SYRIZA and Opposition and little on the bill. That means panic or at least concern. I would not be surprised if all this had been worked out - because it is very targeted and constantly repeated - and it has been designed by a well-paid company for communication and propaganda. I don't know, but I don't think it's completely unbelievable. Mr President, I would like to have a one-minute tolerance, because I would like to address two or three other issues. Two amendments have been tabled, one parliamentary and one ministerial minister, by Mr Panayotopoulos, concerning defence issues. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of National Defence and other ministries. Mr President, Mr Panagiotopoulos would be useful today or tomorrow to give some explanations, in order to clarify a number of issues, particularly concerning the ministerial amendment, so that we can formulate a more complete and reliable view. We are not in principle opposed, but in any case we must form a serious and firm view and that is necessary and that is all the parties. I would like to wish the students and students, the young people and the young people who have started the pan-Hellenic examinations, a good success, to all of them. Not to be influenced by this ruthless misery that the Minister has attempted just before that the strikers supposedly do not take into account the anxiety of students, parents and teachers and, without distracting them, to give all themselves to their success. When the exams are finished, to know that both SYRIZA and teachers and many parents and the students themselves together have a new fight to cancel this blockade measure of twenty-five thousand young students from the Greek universities. Let me also say - Mr President - that I must protest and express my dissatisfaction over what happened last week at the closure of the microphone in Alexis Tsipras. I am dissatisfied with what the President of Parliament has done, Mr Tasulas, by closing the microphone to the President of the SYRIZA and Chief of Staff, invoking the wrong way, but also in any case, a subjective interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. It is incomprehensible and, in any case, the debate on how the debts of the New Democracy are being increased and its loans are not being served. It is a central debate, not a scandalous one, but a question of the functioning of the political system and of the entire Greek people. I'm on my way to the bill. The Minister also lacks the rapporteur, Mr Brutsi, who I would like to say about what he said that the three value principles to which he referred and which are supposed to govern the worldview of the New Democracy are three principles that are not served by this party but by the logic of changing the meat into fish. Just what he said about the labour market, not at the edge of the speech, but as a term, which is a term established by Thatcher and he and he replaced the terms of employment relations and labour rights, that is enough. All I recognize him is that he stands in unfair competition. There, in fact, I recognise him authenticity and authenticity, and that is an issue too, because all this over-exploitation of workers and the working jungle also puts some businesses in two categories. In this respect, it is their approach and not the party's gratuitous position in reality. Mr. Hatzidakis said the world was changing. Our Parliamentary Representative Panagiotis Skourletis also commented on this. Indeed, here we are at a point where Biden, after Obama's failed effort with the "Obamacare" that he achieved up to a point, but they canceled the powerful economic and political centers in the United States, Biden who is not left, says today "tax the rich". Charge the rich, this is Biden's message and much more, not because he's left, but why the world is changing. For forty years of neoliberal choices have led to a complete deadlock that the pandemic provoked. It is no longer possible for global humanity to go on like this. New Democracy comes with this bill to adapt labour issues - as it always does - twenty years later when they were implemented in Europe and did not lead to labour peace and work justice or to growth. That's the quintusia of this bill. From this point of view, I feel at times when I hear both the Minister and the rapporteur and the Members, this pasalimaniotic, which we call "Find ballasts, theobatics, can you say that?" They present the digital card as the big warranty. Yes, we are positive in general terms with the digital card, but is that possible the answer to this whole jungle? They shall present the independent authority as the answer. But the independent authority is arbiting. Is the guarantee possible? They present any positive provisions of the Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation, the Convention 187 of the International Labour Organisation, and also the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019, which are incorporated into that Bill and provide for father's permission, paternity, and everything else. The Minister did not say anything - only in the title of the bill - they are all hiding it - that it is not the government's law, that is a binding obligation on the directives which the government is bound to incorporate into national law. It is not a policy of the Mitsotakis Government and of the New Republic. They're talking about them, and they're calling us if we're going to vote on them or not. They will also vote on a roll-call vote. We were scared! If that's possible! These are 'baskets', they are 'theauto plays', they are not serious, honest political attitudes, and from this point of view individual contracts of employment were not in the New Democracy programme. Then say it out loudly and loudly that "we will downgrade collective agreements, because we prefer the individual contracts that protect employment rights...". You didn't say so, you hid it. Another wicked thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Drizza...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u139	I shall conclude, Mr President. The settlement of working time at "PAPASTRATO", unrelated and unfamiliar to reality - Maria Antoinettes, on the one hand - is a story about a factory and business, which since the period of EAM and ELAS has a historical tradition - and the workers and part of the employer - to support workers and the working relationship and peace through very substantial conditions and contracts. This is why the company "PAPASTRATO" went forward. He's also got a working union of decades, which he insisted on and claimed a whole lot of things. Let's find out what kind of working time arrangement the company "PAPASTRATO" has and see what it has to do with the bill by Mr. Hatzidakis. Let it be an exception. Because the rest of the market is full jungle and will not regulate "PAPASTRATO" the Hatzidakis bill. I shall conclude, Mr President. It is inconceivable to tell us that we are overreacting or lying or teratologically when we talk about the abolition of the term. When you work eight hours and necessarily two more, and you're not paid for that, because in six months' time, any holidays you get will be arranged, is that a real cause for Mr. Hatzidakis to blow up already that SYRIZA says terrible things, that he's gone eight hours? Of course, eight hours have been abolished on the substance, not the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Drizza...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u141	I'm done, Mr. President. The last one is another terrible report for the workers. Right has workers and PASOK when it entered the degeneration process. The Left doesn't have workers, he has workers, he has trade unions, he has races, he has all this. Do not offend people and especially terrorism in the workplace, which, in order to strike, must be very determined for their next day. Thank you. Be well. The battle battle has begun and will take effect.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Ljupis from New Democracy has the floor, followed by Mr. Kalamataianos from SYRIZA, who also closes the ninth cycle.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law which has only been a draft law. The opposition condemned it from the first moment, calling it "anti-democratic" and "anti-democratic". It is, though, isn't it? Let us see only some of the provisions of the bill that are first introduced into the Greek legal order. The new protective framework, which includes a number of permits and favourable provisions, inclusive of all working parents, natural stepfathers, contractors, mothers who have a child, through a parent mother. For the first time, a license is introduced for people, relatives or even people living in the same home, for serious medical reasons. To facilitate workers with children they choose flexible forms of work for a certain period of time, such as teleworking, flexible working hours or parttime work, when children are up to 12 years old. To date, maternity leave was considered to be self-evident, but not paternity leave. Gender equality and the need to create a strong emotional bond between children and their father presupposes active participation of the father from the early hours of children's lives. For the first time, a licence of 14 days and a father is provided for. The measure of non-dismissal is extended to the new father up to six months after the child was born. An important omission is corrected. Parenthood and paternity leave are taken by those who adopt a child up to 8 years of age. The school performance monitoring licence is extended to eighteen years from 16 years until now, and for the first time parents of disabled children who are in special education structures, CEDEFOP or CEDEFOP. This is a very important step towards improving parental leave, distributed at various intervals up to the age of eight for each child. The big change is that for the first time the two of the four months are subsidised by the OAED and therefore a strong incentive is provided for parents to use it. Finally, who can disagree with the fact that the employer's abuses are widening, making dismissal invalid? In fact, I wonder: can a single Member of Parliament be found, who will vote against all these favourable regulations, which support the worker? I now come to the provisions that have caused the strong reaction of counter-population. The permanent incubation these days is that it is affected by the established eighth. This is not just the case, but forty hours of work and five-hour work are repeated in Article 55 clearly, in detail and without room for question. The next popular review is that overtime will not be paid. On the contrary, in fact overtime is increased from a hundred to twenty in a hundred and fifty, which is the European average, and of course, they will be paid 40% more. Let's see what's actually changing. The worker is offered a choice of how he wishes to allocate his working time. The worker can choose four-day to ten hours a day, which is a full-time job in the system of working time adjustment. The settlement is not an innovation in today's bill. It has already existed in Greek labour legislation for three decades. Moreover, on the basis of the European directive that we incorporate, it is perfectly legitimate and flexible working arrangements for parents and sick careers. Another big lie, which has been heard, is that the workers will be paid off the day off. All workers working for more than 40 hours a week will normally be paid for overtime. Nothing changes at this point. It must be understood that all this is done for workers who wish to have one day of the week free to take advantage of it as they wish. No worker can be forced to work four hours a week and no worker can be fired because he refused to work in this way. A single and clear framework for teleworking is being established. Greece is the third country in Europe, which establishes the right to disconnect out-of-time and, of course, at the time of the worker's permission. A great deal of innovation is the digital working card. Each employer must have a computerized working time logging system directly linked to 'ERGAN II'. Thus, they are all recorded in real time, such as the start and termination of work, breaks, and all overtime. Upgrading the EIA to an Independent Authority increases its credibility and objectivity, aiming to concentrate the confidence of workers, who will report more easily violations of labour law. Finally, the changes in trade union legislation have also caused disagreements. But what exactly can one disagree with? With the complete abolition of the financing of trade unions by employers and party organisations? By digitizing the books of the trade union members? With the possibility of everyone, even remote people, being able to participate in the assemblies and in the votes? I do not think that anyone can disagree with the widest possible legalisation achieved. Finally, Mr President, all the measures taken by today's bill are also aimed at strengthening the institution of the family. The facilities and rights guaranteed give encouragement to Greek women and Greeks to have a family, knowing that labour legislation supports them. Greece's demographic problem is a very complex issue, the solution of which lies in many small and larger family interventions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Civic Opposition uses as a pretext the interests of workers to raise political tones, falsely suggesting that employment rights are affected. No employee's right is offended by the bill. On the contrary! The workers who have been given the initiative for the first time to choose how to manage and distribute their working time are fully guaranteed. This is a truly charitable bill, in my opinion, which goes hand in hand with the demands of the time in terms of the needs of the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr Ljupe, and respect for the time. Because of an internal change that has just taken place, Mr Chakalotos will speak on behalf of SYRIZA. Before giving Mr Chakaloto the floor, however, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Reforming an institutional framework of the Committee on Professional Sports, provisions for harmonisation with a holistic FIFA-UEFA study on football and the Greek Football Federation, restructuring of professional categories of football, operating reinforcement of the National Anti-Doping Agency, reforming an institutional framework for coaches and other amendments to sport legislation". As you can see, the Conference of Presidents will schedule the debate of the respective bill. Mr Chakalotos has the floor and then the tenth circle of speakers begins with the first speaker, Mr Manolakos. Here, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, your bill is out of place. It is out of time because it is the same policy that has been applied in the OECD countries for thirty years. Do you have any analysis of the results of this policy? In the last thirty, forty years, do we have an increase in wages? Is that something you're claiming? Over the last thirty years, investment as a proportion of GDP, whether public or private, has increased because of this policy? In terms of productivity growth and growth, is the results positive? Have you found any correlation regarding the fact that greater flexibility increases productivity and growth? In relation to the safety of workers and the quality of jobs, have you seen the percentage of people working in jobs who have no safety? Do you think these policies have helped this world to have stable jobs with some perspective? You could bring this bill at any time, in 1995, in 2005. You didn't get to the first and second memorials. In the third memorandum you told us that we were delaying the evaluations because we are not taking such measures. I have to tell you you're worse than the IMF, because the IMF has officially accused it of doing something unacceptable. In other words, it promoted ‘policy based stividence’. What does that mean? He was promoting evidence based on politics, which he wanted to do anyway. What policy did they want to do? I find the evidence that supports it rather than 'evidence based policy', i.e. policies based on data, since we analyse the data after the empirical analysis. But you or more experts than the IMF. You do not present any evidence. You don't do any analysis of the empirical evidence about what has happened over the past twenty and thirty years. You're out of place. These policies are not at all involved in Greek reality. Mrs. Michailidou, are you ready to come to Step and say that the labour market in Greece is very regulated? Do you really believe that the labour market in Greece is not flexible? Do you think, in relation to the OSCE, that we have the many arrangements? Is that what you claim and bring this bill? Does this policy correspond to the productive structure of this country and to medium-sized and small enterprises? Is that what you claim? Is it not a policy for some large businesses and specific sectors, such as tourism that they want to do so? I will speak, colleagues and colleagues, both on the political dimension and on the economic dimension of your proposals. I begin with the political dimension. Mrs. Michailidou, I'm going to ask you another question, since Mr. Hatzidakis is not here. Will you come here and claim that the high trend over the last thirty years is to increase the power of workers in relation to capital? Is that what you're gonna say? Have you seen the decline in trade union participation? Obviously, if there are no collective agreements, there is no need for a syndicate. I'd like to give you two clues to look at them. Here, Mrs Michalidou, you will see - and so will colleagues - two lines which go in the opposite direction from the end of 1960 onwards in America. The growth trend is what income gets the tenth most rich part of income distribution. The other trend is how many employees participate in trade unions. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm also going to testify this chart. You see two lines that one line follows the other. One line again shows a decline in trade union participation. The other line shows the share of the income that they get in the middle layers. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. You're interested in the middle layers, aren't you? We've ruined them, you're interested! So the argument is not even that you are hitting the workers and the workers, the workers we were talking about, but the middle layers, because the middle layers, when there were trade unions and when there was a regulated labour market, had a floor, that is, somewhere they could go underneath. In these policies you are not only hitting workers and workers, but also a very large part of the middle class itself. For the share of work in the OECD countries over the past twenty years, what do you have to say? Is the share of labour increased and the share of capital reduced? Is that what you're saying? Is that what you claim and you come with this bill? I've filed it many times with the drawing showing a reduction in the share of work. I'm not doing it again, it's at your disposal from the files. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] About wage stagnation? Is that what you claim, that in the past twenty, thirty years, because workers and workers have been so strong, has there been an increase in wages? What do you have to say about the number of workers in precarious jobs? Will flexibility help to improve jobs, for jobs that have the potential for a professional rise? Now let's go to the economic dimension. Where is the evidence that greater flexibility leads to greater investment and greater growth? Do you have one? Did you testify? Are you dealing with the evidence in the state at last? Let's say something about redundancies. All research shows that if redundancies are easier, at the upsurge in the cycle, businessmen do get more employees. But more and more are being fired in the descent. So it has no effectiveness at the level of employment. This does not mean, however, that it is a neutral policy, because it creates insecurity for workers and this insecurity reduces prosperity in general. These are economic data, economic studies. You have Mr. Chacloglu in your ministry. Ask him to tell you what the studies are and what they've done. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For one or two minutes I want your tolerance, Mr President. For security and insecurity, in the 2019 elections one of your pillars was security, that is, there is great insecurity and only the New Democracy Government can deal with it. Except you wanted to limit the concept of security to crime and infraction. On the one hand, your performance, which even in this narrow interpretation, has not been as impressive lately about crime and infraction. But, on the other hand, in the broadest sense of what'security' means, you have a huge deficit: workers in insecure jobs, young people, who are between low wages and no job, young people and no prospects for professional development, and - in a short time - young and young, without any prospect of a pension. We're waiting for this bill, too. So, what do you say to the kids? You're telling them: children, make a family. And you send your MPs to talk to unacceptable conferences, with unacceptable messages that target women. Well, no! It's not women's fault. It's a bill like that. And don't listen to it from me. Listen to it from Mary Coattsaki, who made one of the best political videos I've ever seen. You won't have seen it that way you see me, but six hundred thousand people have seen it, Mrs. Michalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u146	Well, not like that, Mr. Chakalato!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u147	He wonders how to have a child before forty, when you do not have an initial job or have a job, and you are being paid so much, that you are marginally making it, when the only parent families and the unemployed do not even rely on them. What does SYRIZA say? I will close with that, Mr President. We'll play on your strong field. We'll play security. We will have a development strategy where the world of work will be at the core, with increases in minimum wages, with collective agreements, because we want growth, which is not based on low wages, but on new markets, new technologies, new products, with a regulatory framework and an APRC where workers and workers will know that the state is next to them against employers' arbitrary. However, we are talking about safety everywhere, as in health, where we do not want anyone and fear that at a difficult time the public health system will not be able to respond. But we are also talking about a policy on cities, regions, the neighbourhoods that creates security, because there will be good schools, safe neighbourhoods with a strong and creative social and economic fabric. That means security for us, that means a progressive government. This is what we call on both the JRC and Mera25 to hear and discuss a progressive government which understands what security means, which understands what has been done over the past twenty, thirty years and understands that we cannot continue with policies, which have neither empirical support nor politically unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much. Be well. Good afternoon, too. The tenth cycle will be opened by Mr Nikolaos Manolakos from New Democracy, who is elected in Piraeus. Besides, from what I see in the tenth cycle, we have the best kids, the ones who keep the seven-minute, if I remember. In the ninth we had some - in introductory - 'naughty', but he's done and we're going to the tenth. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me before I enter the bill under discussion to refer to the latest developments, which I think have exiled society and which are related to the implementation of the Prespecies Agreement. A few weeks ago, from this Step I had noted that our Government accepts the benefits of a zealous agreement, which SYRIZA was very zealously zealous to sign when it was a government and before "alekor speaks three" we had the challenge of our northern neighbours in the European Football Championship, using the name "Macedonia", without geographical determination. What did they answer with a lot of courage in our call not to do it? They replied that the football federation is not funded by the state, so they can use whatever name they want, as if they represented Zimbabwe and not their country! This, ladies and gentlemen, what's it called? It's called a smuggling to me. Since we have recently heard too much about apologies, I ask SYRIZA: Who will apologise for what is now happening following the agreement signed? As far as the northern neighbours are concerned, I must remind them that there is also Article 60 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of the Treaties. What exactly does this article say? Infringement of a bilateral treaty by one party entitles the other Party to invoke that infringement as a reason for the expiry of the Treaty or to suspend its application in whole or in part. I say this because there are also the changes that have been agreed - and hurt them - to be made in their educational writings in relation to alpha-fillism, as well as the discussions on trade marks. It should therefore be understood that there are terms and limits, even in the nerve! I now come, Mr President, to the present draft law, which I would say is characterized by a great originality. It's a bill of employment that focuses on the worker. For the first time, with the ratification of the convention on the elimination of violence and harassment in the world of work, the dignity of the worker and his right to the free development of personality is protected. The worker is not treated as the gear of a machine, but as a human. Every man's fundamental need is to create a family. With beneficial provisions, introduced in a spirit of fair and equal treatment, workers of both sexes are encouraged to create solid families. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the bill being passed has two basic features: it is also human-centered and charitable. The Civic Opposition doesn't understand that? Of course she understands it, but she is not allowed by her permanent populism to admit it and break her clothes that she allegedly is being banished in the eighth hour and that workers are losing their overtime and that the Labour Inspectorate as an independent authority will now be an institution of each government. But is there anyone who does not realize that an independent authority will better ensure the rights of workers by an agency controlled and dependent on the government in question? What overtime exactly will be lost? The ones that will be recorded digitally? The eighth hour, which you say is being violated, is it not what is shielded by the new digital card that the Hellenic General Confederation of Workers asked for and established by our Government? Ladies and gentlemen, the only right affected by this bill is the abusive right to non-normality. I am voting in favour of this draft law, and so do you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u150	And we thank Mr Manolaco. I said, in the tenth, we have the best kids, consistent in seven minutes. Parliamentary spokesman from the Greek Solution Mr. Hetas asked for the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Mrs Papanatsiou, thank you very much for giving me your position. I was going to deal with some other issues as a parliamentary representative, but, Mr Manolakos, I did not understand what you told us here now. That for us, the confiscated Ambassadors Agreement is also for you? I don't understand. You're confusing us in here. Did you come out here today to tell us what, as a Member of the New Democracy? Tell us. I really don't understand. In here - I've said it many times - and want to sanctify, you can't. Why do you keep scratching? Not you personally, all of you. Why are you scratching? Well, since this agreement is so bad, you and the other Members are looking at me now, Mr Manolaco. Get out of the drawers the spooked protocols for months of the Prespecies Agreement and if you have political masturbation, come here to Parliament and talk. Let me see, when it comes to voting time, what will you vote 'yes', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'pay', 'weak' or'season'? You can tell us, but you won't make a political spit. You do well to blame SYRIZA. But listen, SYRIZA signed a terrible agreement, condemning Greece for Macedonia. That's what we say. At least he said: we are doing this. He went out into the world and said: We do this. Would you like to vote for us? They voted for them. In Pella they got 30%, on the ground they got 30%. What did you say? What are you doing? Since the agreement is so obscure, Mr Manolaco, that you have come to conquer the Skopje here today - what kind of precursor is that? - so you veto the accession of Skopje to the European Union. How's your government? Exercise pressure and veto at the moment not to get Skopje into the European Union. But you, not only do not exercise it, but your soul trembles, do not be veto Bulgaria. That's where you arrived. Listen to what Biden said. You got the message: Don't dare and question the deal, Biden said, I'll make you "do". That's what he said. So are you in favour of the agreement or are you against the agreement? Are you honest with the world or are you political liars? Tell us what you are, what you're after, what you're targeting. You cannot make fun of the world all the time, Mr Manolakos, and I am sorry to address you, but you have encouraged me today to think before I go up to the Step with what I have heard. Are you protesting about the debacle? Seventy-two violations, before yesterday's disgrace - I was showing them here - with Macedonia, just from Euro, a leading organization, in which millions of eyes are paved every day, and those who are advertising Macedonia, the Bulgarians - Slavos - Albanians playing Macedonian skates to us. The 'South Macedonia', the 'North Macedonia' you say, applies only to us. For all the others, it is 'Macedonia'. Very good. These are the results of the SYRIZA agreement, which you - truly apologise to everyone who listens to us - will say so very simple and popular, respecting the space, "do the gargling". It has made you feel fine, but at least sit down on your eggs or come here to test, see how much fraud the bag gets and see which of you are opposed to this agreement and you will vote against it here. Mr. Manolus, come with us. We are ten Members and you, a total of eleven, must also vote in favour of the proposal for a committee of inquiry. Isn't the deal changing? We say it's changing. But even that doesn't change. Let's see what happened at the time, see what happened, Mr. Manolak. We've heard a lot of things, pressures, bags of wheels, well-trains, exchanging. They've heard. I don't know. Shouldn't we see what happened? Shouldn't we have a committee of inquiry? This is for flea fuck. You're still looking for the Pope's 2 million. Do, it's a major national issue. Greece is ashamed every day. What are you guys doing? That is why I say to you: or show political masturbation and let's watch the Greek people, the Greek citizens, or sit down and silence. I also want to address the government. Now what do we do? Madam Minister, what do we do now? Tell us about it. I want you to tell me - since you are more concerned with human beings - what you will tell the father what he says 'I want the committee to explain to my children why their mother has been lost to save others'. A happy Cretan. When the ministers and your people confessed they committed a crime. What's he gonna tell his kids, what are you going to say? I am referring to the vaccine of 'AstraZeneca', Madam Minister and gentlemen of the New Democracy. What will you answer the thousands of young people today, after yesterday's decision of the committee not to grant the vaccine to the under sixty years? What are you going to say today? Should they go take a second dose of another vaccine? What did we do with it, a variety of meats, a little bit from here and a little bit from there? We're talking about human lives. Did you hear what he said today - leave what Hetas, Velopoulos, the Greek Solution, everyone - the professor of Pneumology at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Mr. Kyumis? He said that the vaccine companies if the second vaccine is from another mark, they have no responsibility. So, what do we have here? We have the impunity for you, the impunity for the infectious, the impunity for the companies, and you people, do the experimental animals. That's what you're saying. Temporary emergency leave, calling out Velopoulos for months, is conditional, the emergency authorisation of vaccines is limited to doses by the same company and not to vaccine cocktails. Are you experimenting on experiments? Instead of asking for apologies, move the finger, gamble with public health, gamble with the lives of the Greeks?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u152	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u153	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll remind you of statements. Ms. Mitsotakis, Prime Minister: "The best vaccine is the fastest". Kikilis: “Some cases of side effects have been found in our country”, six, says today, in one million. And if you're one of the six? I didn't understand that. Vassilakopoulos: "There is nothing to say that AstraZeneca is insecure for pregnant women." Themistocles: “Secure vaccine of AstraZeneca”. Theodoridou: ‘The vaccine of AstraZeneca’ is given by people eighteen years or more’. Now what does that lady who already ban? Adonis Georgiadis: “The achievement of Britain has been made with “AstraZeneca”.” Britain, Mr Georgiadis, has stopped administering 'AstraZeneca', the second dose, to people under fifty. We're ours! Gerotziafas: “The vaccine of AstraZeneca” is safe and effective.” Janakis: "Secretary scenes in the ITH. Secure vaccine of “AstraZeneca”’. Ice: 'There is no problem, we continue to do so'. What do we do now? Tell us what we are doing now with these people, who you suddenly told them that under 60 years of age they will not be vaccinated with this vaccine. That is why we, from the first moment on, said and kept the most serious, most honest attitude to Greek citizens: we have reservations. We're not negative to anything. We have reservations and we have concerns like the whole world. Now run and collect the uncomfortables!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much. The speech is now made by the Voliotissa Catherine Papanatziou from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we could say that we are falling from the clouds, but it would be a lie. We are not surprised by the government's choice to attack the world of work. This position is even stronger if someone sees their overall course. There is, of course, a constant recognition of that. In recent years, in order to justify the country's bankruptcy and the imposition of the Memorandum commitments, you have implemented internal devaluation. You are claiming that the bill we are discussing is in the direction of the European acquis. Unfortunately, for workers and workers, for all of us, the answer is negative, because quite simply, our country is not a simple European labour market. We can see the recent study of the Institute of Research in GSEE. That is where our country appears to have the lowest indicator of the quality of work in the European Union. This is due to working time. The formal working week shows the highest length in the European Union. So the question that needs to be answered is: Do you live in another reality or is it really what you want? We don't want to be blind. We won't give you any lightning. This labour market you want, this model you want, these policies you promote. You've had a big fight for this. For example, the coverage rate for collective agreements lies at 14.7% compared to 60% in the European Union. The unemployment rate is 16% compared with 7.3% in the European Union, while the purchasing power of the minimum wage in the country is the fifth lowest across Europe. If you ask, then, it was convergence with the European model that targets and policies pursued should have been different. For the New Democracy, of course, the crisis is an opportunity. It is therefore an opportunity to abolish the eighth hour. You did so in a ten-hour period, and even working time will now be settled by means of individual contracts. Workers will work unpaid overtime while increasing the overtime limit to a hundred and fifty. Part-time working is also to be worked out. Are these the well-paid jobs that Mr Mitsotakis promised in the run-up to the election and continues to proclaim today? You deceived small and medium-sized enterprises, cheated on the workers to steal their vote. Crocodile tears are shed for youth unemployment. You promised that you would reduce it and bring a bill that, with mathematical accuracy, would lead to thousands of jobs being lost. Croatian tears are sheding for the demographic problem of the country, which you are trying to deal with with conferences - parody, at the same time as voting for ten hours of work and overtime. How will he make a family, Minister, a new couple forced to work ten hours every day? How will he take his time? How will he keep his children? He's gonna pay milk and take you off? The resolution of the demographic survey includes a series of support measures. First, financial security. Secondly, quality work and personal time. Thirdly, a strong social state. You degrade all three pillars with every bill of yours, revealing your deep conservation. You don't care about unemployment, but you do care for your interests. You don't even care about demographics. Each and every one alone in the working and social jungle you bring. You are faithfully serving the Pissaridis report, which underlined the need for more flexibility in the labour market and a reduction in labour costs. Is that the development you're evangelizing? This model, however, is completely failed and anti-developmental. It was tested and failed in the period 2010-2014. So the bill, which you are proud of modernising the market, is the extension of the management right and the definition of working time, for the benefit of employers. Employers and employees, then. The strong point of negotiation is one and the weakest one respectively. They have different concepts about the context and structure of industrial relations. The regulation of basic working conditions, therefore, such as that of the year which affects the whole range of workers' lives, has so far been and has been guaranteed and protected. The negotiation, even on these terms, will become an attempt to compromise different interests. But who will have the upper hand, especially in individual contracts? It does not want much of a mind: individual responsibility, individual negotiation, individual contracts and anyone who can withstand. We also understand that control is one of the main signs of friction in a labour market. On the basis of information from the Ministry, one in four undertakings controlled by the AAR are identified as infringements. It is at least acidifying to dismantle the working time framework and protect workers in a labour market, which traditionally shows one of the highest indices of illegal flexibility. Of course, it must be understood here that the whole debate on the structure of the EIA is not just about the organisational form of a public service. It is, however, about the level of protection of workers. What have we done in SYRIZA's governance period? Steps have been taken to protect workers, strengthen the control mechanism, impose penalties on the offenders. We have too many examples. With the new Government of New Democracy 'good morning' provisions of the strengthening of collective bargaining were dismantled, the reason for dismissal was downgraded. We will not allow this situation to be permanently established, we will not allow workers and workers to act as the mighty. This law will be abolished on the first day of the country's progressive governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr. Papanatsiou. I will now give the floor to my Thessaloniki friend Konstantinos Gülekas, of the New Democracy. Mr. Biagis will be followed by the Change Movement, and then Mr. Stavros Arachovitis will be followed by SYRIZA. Mr. Arachovite, you weren't in the Chamber. We have given our word that in the tenth cycle we will keep the seven-minute period so that all colleagues can speak. Mr. Giuleka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday and today there are various points of view. That makes sense. It is an issue and an area in which there are different opinions, there are different positions, different positions. But, you know, beyond all that, I would say that here - for all of us, that is - the consistency of our words and actions is also judged. I say this because we have heard from the Communist Party of Greece his specific positions, which are well known. It has this effect, it defends certain positions and it continues to defend them by speaking of this bill as well. However, we hear from other aspects of the Chamber, and above all from the Civic Opposition, that there is no doubt that there is an attack on labour rights by this government, that this government is in favour of employers, as those who voted for New Democracy in Greece are the employers and all the others are the workers that you represent. Let's stop these generalizations. It reminds me of what was once said in this Chamber: 'The rest of the democratic forces', as if we were not a democratic force, were democratic forces some others. But we are all democrats and with the vote of the Greek people we are here. I think that no one can convince our fellow countrymen - our fellow citizen when he comes with such generalisations to say that 'this government needs to be influenced against workers' rights'. Everyone has his views, of course. But let me say, because I am also a lawyer and I speak in my legal capacity, that you are, of course, right. Labour law was introduced to ensure the worker's status, precisely because he is weak in front of the employer. This is a well-established principle of labour law, and that is why you can see that the labour courts are, in principle, in favour of the worker, trying to protect the worker, when he is, of course, right to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u158	And the legal framework. They are also judging the legal framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u159	I am speaking about the legal framework, Mr President. That is why I said that labour law was introduced, precisely in order to protect the worker, who is in a weaker position than the employer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u160	He underlined it as a lawman.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u161	I say this, however, and here I think we should stand. To set up a digital working card where each worker's working time can be controlled, when he comes, when he leaves his work, where on the other hand the question of overtime can be checked, in other words, can undeclared and alleged work be trampled to the detriment of the worker? The fact that the Labour Inspectorate now comes to an independent authority, like ADAE, the Independent Public Revenue Authority, precisely so that there is no room for political intervention, is that at the expense of workers? A number of regulations in this bill, anti-violence measures, sexual harassment, health measures, safety at work, are all directed against workers? Because I have heard here about the ideological differences and ideological battles which are being fought in this Chamber, on the basis of this bill - some of my colleagues in Officerial Responsibility have spoken about the 'fighting battle' with this bill - let me say that, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people who are following us in this Chamber have little memory. That is why I have said from the outset that we must all prove our credibility consistently with what we have done and what we are saying. For all of a sudden, some of the people of the Officerial Opposition come here, who ruled the place a year and a half ago for four and a half years, with that Kammenos - Tsipras alliance, and suddenly they want to convince us that they have implemented a charity policy, that they were close to the worker and that the Government of Mr.Mitsotakis comes and lauds against the workers. I beg your pardon, ladies and gentlemen, did anyone hear in this Chamber who released team redundancies and when did it? On SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras this happened. Do you forget? Because we're talking about ideological battles. Did anyone hear in this Chamber and any other arrangements that had been made? The right to strike, which you restricted with 50%+1, you didn't do it when the Tsipra government ruled this place? For the salaries of 350 euros - this generation of employees of 350 euros - did you not do so? Yeah, I know. You said: “We had deceitful things. We'd tear out the memos. Ultimately, our delusion led us to understand reality and then, not only did we follow the memorials, we brought and voted for other memoranda that we are fighting ideologically - as some of you here said in this debate about this bill - in favour of the workers. But you didn't do that? The flexible forms of work have not been introduced? European Directive 1158/2019, one week before the elections, has it not been introduced into Greece as regulation by the SYRIZA government? Is it possible today, as a Qualified Opposition, to come and oppose what you have brought as a government? For Christ's sake! And they didn't do this thirty years ago, they became the previous years that you ruled the place. So do not enter into this debate on ideological battle. Because if you want to talk about ideological battle, everyone can defend a lot of what has been done, just as you have done - and you have done important things in the field of work - as has been done before you, as is now and always done. No government comes with a zero character to level everything from one side or the other. But, if you want to remember, let's remember. Our Parliamentary spokesman Yiannis Vroutzis said this earlier. Who brought this heavy fine of EUR 10,500 for undeclared work? The then government of the New Democracy, the party that you accuse is in favour of employers. But what terrible arrangements for employers this government has brought! He kicked them in the fines. And you followed it - and you did well and followed it - and there is today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. So these regulations all tend to create as strong a case as possible for protecting workers' rights. They will always try to circumvent these rights on the part of employers. So that makes the state, the government, to take measures precisely to minimise the chances of circumventing these rights. There's gonna be an attempt to circumvent it! It will be done, ladies and gentlemen. We know. That's why we're all trying. Here we want proposals, even today and tomorrow, until the bill is passed. Get some more suggestions to talk about them. Kostis Hatzidakis is not dogmatic. He told you in committee too. He said it in the public dialogue. No one is, as you have said, from one side or the other. In any case, we expect to create a free labour market with absolute protection of workers' rights, to create better jobs, to create better paid jobs. But in any case, this effort can be better done if it is taken as a whole. As long as we are right in this Chamber, and we are starting to remember practices in the other decades, I think that, instead of going forward, we are going back, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Giuleka. Mr. Dimitrios Biagis of the Change Movement, our Corfu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after a year and a half of pandemic, incarceration, restrictions and teleworking each of us would expect a reform bill which, apart from supporting workers, would form a new, modern sustainable working model with a compass of green growth, focusing on man and his real needs, as they are gradually forming in the post-COVID era. We were therefore looking forward, after this long-term suffering, to seeing a productive work model, which will place emphasis on man and words production, creation, innovation, blossoming, growth, extroverted fruitage. Instead, your Government brings you to the House one, I would say, and allow me, a bill abortion, which completely deregulations the labour market, dismantles labour relations, abolishes the eighth hour, strengthens employers' immunity and once again, unfortunately, proves its radically conservative face. Minister, you are promoting a bill by completely ignoring the social partners, without having gone into dialogue and some form of prior consultation with them. By establishing the occupant on the substance of the matter, you do nothing but fight the working woman. You are fighting against the very institution of the family. You're turning your back on the changing social needs. The worst of all, you do not have the same human nature when you seek to turn a worker into a passive ten-hour robot that will perform commands, without this worker being given the opportunity to create, compose, innovate. With this draft law you are actively proving your authoritarianity by reintroducing individual contracts, while supporting employers' immunity, by violating the acquired, workers' rights. You lead to mass dismissals. You are blocking the exercise of trade union freedoms. You humiliate growth. You seem to be faithfully serving a very hard conservative doctrine. You come today with this draft law to convince us that the worker "tada" on his own, weak in a heterogeneous individual contract, will be able to raise his standing and negotiate a better working hours alone or a better working treaty against his wealthy employer! But you forget, at the same time, that remuneration, insurance, terms and conditions of work, legal working hours, annual leave, care for health and safety against accidents at work are included in general labour rights and were won through collective struggles and not through individual transactions. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, unfortunately, Greece is coming back many decades and returning to work for the middle ages. The most important occupations are abolished by the provisions of this draft law. It would be envy today also by the hardest neoliberal your theory of work, when you are now institutionalizing the tireworking hours, for workers with an individual and not a collective labour contract, on a proposal from the worker as well. We will have elasticisation of work, daily work even ten hours if the employer obviously wants to do so without an increase in earnings with the only profit for the worker in a corresponding period of six months or a day. In today’s Greece of low wages, which the government stubbornly refuses to raise the minimum wage, the employer makes the worker work longer to get off and not to increase his poor income. Despair unionism and want the worker only and helpless. You are trying to terrorize the workers, to disperse fear and to have catastrophic consequences for the exercise of unionism and the right to strike, trying to de facto to abolish it. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to understand the bad situation in which workers find themselves, we have been dealing with the problem which they have been fighting since last summer - about a year - the drivers of tourist buses, as well as the tax-free workers, as well as the tourist agency workers, who are still on the streets to overcome the seasonality of companies working - taking unemployment with them - are still on the streets. Unfortunately, your Ministry has not responded to the minimum yet, with the result that any small aid you have given has not even reached all the employees. I happen to refer again to the drivers of tourist buses, who since last year, Minister - we are talking about familymen, we are not talking about simple numbers - up to now that we have not taken one euro in this difficult period, which we are all experiencing. With this your policy, Minister, there are excessive categories of workers employed in particular, such as seafarers. After the recent abolition of collective labour agreements and the reduction of wages with Law 4714/20, you are moving with the current bill to further undermine their labour rights and their possibilities for trade union claims, disregarding the nature and specific features of work. That is why the maritime unions are resisting and reacting to your methods with a multitude of mobilisations, which, of course, we can only support. On this point, Mr President, I would like to return to briefly, having referred to the question of the incorrect and unfair taxation of small private pleasure boats by means of Law 4646/19. I would like to welcome, even though there is little improvement in your error in the relevant article of the amendment tabled by Mr Stakoura, by reminding you that there is no revenue from the exploitation of these vessels, and should therefore not even fall within the scope of Law 27/1975, which relates to the taxation of income from the operation of ships. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, before this draft law is passed, the labour market and especially in tourist areas, such as the island from which I come, Corfu, is in a very difficult situation. This draft law is coming to annihilate even more this sad image on the labour market and leads with mathematical accuracy to the full impoverishment of workers. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you are rather afraid of the power of many, and that is why you are trying to weaken and neutralize the collectives. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement, as a major vehicle of work, which is next to the people of work, cannot vote and consent to voting in favour of such drafts, neoliberals, with numerous additional provisions that turn workers into employers' chariots, without a voice, for no reason. We are vertically opposed to your logic, because for us, the focus of our policy is man and, above all, the man working and not the undermining worker. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u164	Be well. Thank you, too. We're going to Lacona, Mr. Stavros Arachovitis, from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u165	Mr. President, isn't it me after?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u166	Then you are. Mr Arachovitis was in committee, he was in '50' number.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u167	The situation says otherwise, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u168	Yeah, I know. We put Mr Arachovitis on because he was in '50'. He should have already spoken. He was in committee. What can we do? Talk to the Change Movement. Then it's you. There's no problem for seven minutes. Do you want to come? Here, Mr Arachovitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much. Mr President, before I begin my position, I should like to express my wishes to the Third High School children who are currently fighting the great battle for admission to universities. We wish them health, courage, good luck in the fight and good air in their dreams, which says the song! Ladies and gentlemen, what the troika and the International Monetary Fund have failed to institutionalise in our country against the world of work is now coming the New Democracy Government to do so by a law which is passed within this Chamber in a few hours. So today, the troika is not stealing your glory. Today you are glorified by BSE and by the powerful people of this country who rub their hands. Enter the full strangler of workers' rights at work, criminalize their collective action and representation, curb the free time of workers from the age of their children and impose 10 hours of work without additional earnings. And you dare say that payment can be made on the day off. Do you really think you can make fun of the workers, the unemployed and the young, telling them that the eighth is backwards? Truly, who thought of this unlikely argument, that the mother worker can decide herself when to do overtime, has - he doesn't have work and when she can get her day off, he has - he doesn't work the business and the employer will consent, he has - he doesn't need the business. That's just a mockery of saying that. I think it is disgraceful to the intelligence of the Greek people and I would be sincerely beg, with all dignity left in this Chamber, to express ourselves on the basis of truth and logic. As regards the adjustment of working time by an individual contract, it is true that the strength of the employer is guaranteed in a de facto unequal relationship. That's nothing else. Is there a hired person, a young man and a young man who doesn't understand what it means to work a ten-hour unpaid and take a day off via the individual contract? The Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which the stones also know, has said so in general that the authenticity of individual agreements between a worker and an employer is questioned precisely because of the dependence of the former on the latter. With unemployment, therefore, in the future, you are dismantling the differences in the safety of work and of workers, with economic inequalities widening. We have seen the evidence within the pandemic, with the rich becoming richer, with society becoming poorer, you dismantle every protection framework and contribute to increasing the profits of businesses. Is that what you want to do? Don't you hear society? Don't you read the evidence? Can't you see what's happened to the world and much more, in the Greek economy? But is there another way? Of course, there is. At a time when other countries are already working in less working hours, you are separating our country from the European labour norm. At a time when the President of the United States himself proposes taxing larger businesses to the benefit of protecting society and incomes, you are bringing the working middle ages, bringing tetchism and rhetoric forty years later. And not only that, but you're getting it backwards in the 18th century. What was conquered, that is, with struggles and effort. But what ideas are these in the end? The worst thing, though, is that you're doing all of this, without a touch, in the middle of a pandemic. In conditions of generalised labour and social security, you do not encourage and introduce the deregulation of the labour market and the attack on workers and their rights. In situations of unemploy­ment, clearly and secretly - you are legislating against any logic of protecting work. But you are making a tragic mistake, ladies and gentlemen: You are interpreting fear, numbness, insecurity of society as acceptance of what you are bringing. Tragic. You fall asleep by the polls brought by your good friends. You do not, however, see the evidence that is upsetting you, such as the answers that the Eurobarometer presents. But they say that and not just. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill you are proving that you are urging youth, the new generation, the future of this place. You come all productive, the young and the young scientists of the Greek universities and the hard work. You are renowned for working women and motherhood. Because it is not only the birth of children, but also the conditions of child rearing. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you will soon be voting alone and isolated from all over the society and Parliament, this bill that has been debated and so condemned. If your children ask you, the new generation tomorrow why did you vote for it, while you know what damage it causes in the future and in their lives, what will you answer them? You still have some time to think about it. And what should I wish for? That's a good apology! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr Arachovitis, and respect for the time. I didn't expect to be honest. Mr Michael Papadopoulos is called in Stepma from New Democracy and beautiful Kozani.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u171	Ptolemais, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u172	Kozani writes. That's what I said. And Kozani is beautiful! The whole county is beautiful.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Another bill, just the same pattern as the Opposition: Disinformation, fear in society, hypocrisy. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the protection of work is part of the bold reforms, which are characteristic of Kostis Hatzidakis - the current Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is determined to implement, with a view to bringing an end to the dedication of recent years. After all, the anemic economic development of SYRIZA's governance was based on overtaxation, contrary to the economic perception with strong social content of the New Democracy Government. The Labour Protection Bill has two objectives. The first objective is to strengthen social cohesion, with measures to protect workers, measures to address their current real problems, women, young people, and measures to restore the injustices that exist to date. The second objective is a productive Greece, which will attract investment, with regulations adapting labour legislation to social, economic, technological developments of the time and introducing into adapting the framework of labour legislation to best European practices. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is extremely critical, because it concerns millions of our fellow citizens, almost all of which concerns the private sector. It is extremely representative of the ideological origin of all Members of Parliament. Do you know why? Because they highlight the real differences we have, the real beliefs we have, the real principles and values we have among us. It is a debate of an extremely important bill, because it breaks down obsolete working life development regulations, releasing forces, both of workers and of entrepreneurship, secondly, because it protects the worker in a significant way from job exploitation phenomena, thirdly, because it strengthens the worker and extends his rights, such as paternity and many others, and fourthly because it provides the state with innovative tools for supervision, compliance with the laws, ensuring workers' rights, as they form into the post-industrial capitalist society, without subjecting to employers. This is a very important difference for those who understand it. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, of the Officerial Vice-President, first of all I should like to say a secret to you: because I think that - of course it is wrong and wrong, but your party believes that it is a government - your party enjoys the bill and the arrangements of Kostis Hadjidakis. He's glad, because there are issues he wouldn't dare solve. While he rightly seeks it, he agrees, he does not say so. But the well-known panelain that you are making between unspeakable populism as opposition and the subjection you had four and a half years in Employing as a government makes you happy about this bill. But those of you who respond sincerely to the bill under discussion have remained in the problems and dilemmas of the '80s and '90s. Ladies and gentlemen, your attitude, your refusal to build a strong institutional framework for the protection of workers, which will respond to the adversities and threats that they are facing today in 2020, in 2030, in 2050, explains and explains either because of the ideological strangles you have or because of the populism that you are showing us every day. But you must understand the quality of the political dilemmas of the present and the future that comes and the responsibility you have to assist in a new institutional environment without populism dressed in ideological rhetoric. Flexibility of the labour market, such as labour mobility in the working life of each and every one, are facts that define the reality, whether you agree, whether Marxism agrees, or the forgotten trade unionist who represents himself and the divisions of trade unionism does antisocially, closing the Acropolis, bending the boats, creating a strike through the pan-Hellenic exams, trying to dismantle the conference of the Kozani Labour Centre two days ago, while they did not have the right to participate - and I stop it here, not continuing and expanding. Ladies and gentlemen, we are clearly satisfied with the vote and the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u174	For the representatives of elected representatives...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u175	You're not shy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u176	Please! He didn't interrupt. People will judge. Whatever the world wants, it's not you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u177	You weren't there. You've got the wrong update. Ask serious people and they'll tell you what happened at the Kosani Labour Center. Let me know, anyway! Get the fuck out of who you are, get the fuck out of here! [[Noise from the wing of the JRC]] We are therefore extremely pleased about the draft legislation being passed. It is liberal, it is social law, it defends individuality and it respects the whole. It is certain that in future, Minister, there will undoubtedly be legislative improvements and effective circulars. It is certain that feedback with the conclusions of its implementation, i.e. good and good law and governance, go ahead, legislate, implement, control, correct, all this is what we will find in front of us and, of course, democracy works. Because what is being done today is one of the great responsibilities that the New Democracy has and the choices it makes. And believe me, for me and for many other New Democracy colleagues, it is not only the country's strategic choices, but above all the great choices for its people, for the people and above all for the many, and even better for the weakest, such as the industrial worker, the commercial worker and the dealer. What do you think? What do you suggest? Nothing at all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In closing - and thank you for the time, Mr President - I wanted to say that the country, ladies and gentlemen, has already changed its page. It's time to understand it and realize it. The Prime Minister said so negatively in his speech a few days ago. And thank God you, ladies and gentlemen of the counterpopulation, can't stop this. It's on a growth orbit and it's never gonna stop. I would therefore like to say that I am voting in favour of the bill and urge you not to vote for the bill. Do you know why? To prove once again what a great difference we have in what we understand, society understands and you cannot understand. Because you are thus proving how much you are counting on the worker and not on the words, but on the actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, too. We will go back to the Peloponnese, Mr. Dionyssis Kalamatanos by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and Elias Prefecture, Elias. Then Laconia follows, that's where we're going back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, because changes have been made to the list, will you tell us the order again?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u180	Yeah, then it's Mr. Cretan, Mr. Papastasis and Mr. Melas. Mr. Kalamatian, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Following the extensive debate, both in Parliament's committees and in plenary, the real nature of the bill has been revealed. You have put, as a wrapper, the international conventions and the European directive, which all of this must be incorporated. But you can't fool with all this. The substance, the actual targeting of the bill, has been revealed. You seek to level out labour rights, to burial labour conquests, which workers have conquered and achieved with very hard struggles. Hours, overtime, pay, protection against redundancies, Sunday holidays, collective action of workers, and more are being targeted by the government. It is clear that these provisions are the few, the strong, the chosen, the government's great-workers. Large losers, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the unemployed, the new generation, the vast majority of society. Since the next election of 2019 you have shown your moods. You have implemented the same tough anti-Government policy as in 2012-2014. And what did you do? You rushed to abolish from August 2019 any beneficial provision that SYRIZA brought to heal the blows that you had brought to the world of work. Now, with this bill, everyone is aware that your attack on labour rights continues and takes the form of an avalanche. You are, of course, trying, Minister, to say that the bill is supposed to protect workers. You're trying to convince that the hours are supposed to be protected, so all right, brother, nothing happens, two hours more work, sometime you'll give the workers the day off or leave. First of all, Minister, if you don't know that right now, anyone who works above has the right to ask for his overworking and overtime. You know, the worker needs a wage. It was recently discovered by the Prime Minister, who found out publicly that there are people who are dependent on their wages. But with what you are voting on, it will not be done by a collective agreement. In other words, the worker loses the protection of his association and goes individually to negotiate, by individual contract, with the employer. It seems, Minister, that you do not or do not want to have anything to do with it and know the working jungle that exists out there. You do not understand that the employer is the strong man, who gives the job, who pays the wage, and the employee is the weak man asking for the job, asking for the salary, so that he can survive. Because if you had contact with working reality, you would know that with what you are voting on, you bring this: Bring the malicious employer to blackmail and threaten the worker. The malicious employer can call the worker and tell him: My child, the company has a problem, he needs it. Do you want to ask to work two hours more than your eighth free or you'll be fired and someone else will come to your place from the one million unemployed out there and beg? Oh and where are you, if you finally accept, sometime when the job falls, I'll give you your day off. That is what you are bringing and if the worker dares to refuse to sign an individual contract to do so and is dismissed - voidly and illegally - and goes to court and the court does cancel this unlawful and void dismissal, he will not be able by your bill, under Article 66, to return to his work and receive the pay for late payment, as we say in law, i.e. the wages from void dismissal until re-appointment. The employer will give him some more money, a little reward, and the case closes. That's what you vote on. And then I hear you say about the electronic working card. But are there no lawyers among you to inform you that the electronic working card has been voted since 2011, for a decade? Ten years is the law of the state and you did not apply it to this day either. It is provided for in Article 26 of Law 3996/2011. Look at it, sir, Admiral. Not applicable. But neither with what you are voting on now is being implemented and you have it as a great superpower against undeclared work, the violation of labour law. And it has not been implemented or now you are applying it. It is planned in a six-month period that the electronic working card will be implemented. However, all other provisions on the level of employment rights are directly applicable. From tomorrow, if you vote, all of what I mentioned previously plus the abolition of the Sunday holiday for many workers, plus cheap or unpaid overtime, the ban on recruitment or whatever is being applied immediately. The electronic working card in the future and we see it. You're telling us that you want to strengthen controls and what are you doing? You're turning the Labour Inspectorate into an independent authority. But all the decades that the Labour Inspectorate operates on the state's guarantee to protect workers. Workers make complaints, not employers, at the Labour Inspectorate. And what do you guys think? That it will be an independent authority, that is, arbitration. Where it is for the protection of workers exclusively, you make it an independent authority and say 'bravo, what nice, we protect them'. But can you say these things? If you really wanted to enhance controls at workplaces, you would not be turning back into August 2019 the Labour Inspectorate from the General Secretariat into a simple Directorate of the Ministry of Labour, you would not abolish the manifestation of the overtime that we, the SYRIZA Government, have brought, to force malicious employers to declare the overtime and that has worked. Millions of overtime were declared and workers' incomes increased. You abolished it. Why? If you really wanted to deal with the violations of labour legislation that crush workers and create unfair competition, which you are saying, you would hire staff to the Labour Inspectorate and you would make a logistic support for this House. No, you don't do anything like that. There is not a single provision that provides for this in the whole bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But, on the contrary, there is a provision providing for parttime working for the first time. Do you understand what you're doing with it? Will a worker be able to work four hours in the morning with part-time work, leave for some time and oblige the employer to come back this afternoon to work another three hours for how long? For 12% of an hour increase, for 4.5 euros an hour, 13 euros a quarter. That is seven hours of work will be EUR 338 for a worker who takes EUR 325 a month, for example. I mean, eight hours less than 400 euros. Why should the employer hire an eight-hour worker? What's the point? Since he'll be over-exploited by the part-time person who will be imprisoned, he'll be paid for crumbs. What are you doing? That's what you call "confidence at work"? Do you call that "protection to the worker"? Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u182	And that's what you're gonna do, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u183	Just a moment, Mr President, give me some time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u184	You took a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u185	But I've waited longer. That is why the study shows that with cheap and unpaid overtime and those that you bring with the elasticisation of working conditions, thirty-eight thousand recruits are prevented. Unemployment is rising, you are not helping unemployment at all. Look at the young people and young people who migrated to have better working conditions and invite them to come and work back with these working conditions. Look into the eyes of young people and young people who are out there looking for work or working with part-time or eight hours and tell them "This working future we are building for you, stay home and work." Look into the eyes all the people you've fed them a lot of good jobs. Are these many good jobs? What I'm describing? Breaked hours, unpaid overtime or cheap overtime? Any checks at the workplace? I would like to mention many more. But, Minister, you said the world was changing. Indeed, the world is changing and it is shown in practice that your idealism, which says that by reducing labour costs, reducing labour rights, is improving competitiveness. This theory has collapsed, even in the United States, where the new government says 'we will strengthen workers'. In many European countries, labour rights are being strengthened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u186	Please, Mr. Kalematian.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u187	You guys stay back. You stay with the failed, obsolete recipes to serve energetic interests. You're staying alone in failure. You don't hear the Opposition, the whole Opposition. You don't listen to scientific bodies. You're not listening to the Scientific Service of the House. You're not listening to the Association of Judges and Prosecutors. You're not listening to the media.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u188	And you don't listen to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u189	The vast majority of small and medium-sized enterprises do not want this piece of legislation and continue! What, did you not hear Mr Kavvatha say as a representative, all the small and medium-sized ones, all the chambers? Was it in favour of these provisions? Of course not!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u190	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u191	We have a completely different development model. We believe in strengthening workers. We believe in strengthening their negotiating power. We believe that the rights at work are the driving force behind fair and sustainable development. We are with progress, with social cohesion. We are standing on the right side of history and that is why we are voting against these provisions and we are committed to abolishing them when the Greek people are commanding us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Neocles Cretan, Member of the New Democracy, Lakonas, Octakosaris, the cursor, whatever you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if one reads a little history, one understands that changes are constantly taking place and that these changes constantly have all the participants who, according to the time periods they are living, are historically characterising these changes. So the phrase "we live historical moments" sounds from time to time from man, we would say, of caves to day. So there are historical moments, and it is true that when you give the right to expression to every worker and worker, you must feel pride and satisfaction and not stress, as the Left feels. He's nervous because from now on he's gonna be dealing with society. It will measure its true strength and no longer be able to play with the lives of many. This click on committees and talks will be the most democratic one modern man has invented. This click will express the broad basis of our fellow citizens and so the Left will be called upon to convince the many and not the few. Ladies and gentlemen, when there are bills in plenary before Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, I am concerned about whether or not I have to repeat points of the bill or, in general terms, without going into detail, but I cannot point out any beneficial provisions of this bill, such as the provisions of Article 66 on the protection of workers from redundancies, as it will no longer be possible for the employer to directly or indirectly threaten the worker with redundancies if the worker exercises his legal right. There will now be explicit nullity in such a case and a reversal of the burden of proof in favour of the worker. There are also the provisions of Article 58 on the pay of overtime, to which as a worker is paid 40% more than an hour's pay, up to 50 hours a year, as up to now, and 60% more than an hour's pay if it exceeds 50 hours of overtime. What is the opposition reason for this? That we do not beat unemployment and enable businesses to respond to existing staff. You have no idea, it seems, from the market and that is what this argument is about. Finally, there are provisions on the digital working card, which is considered the leading provision and innovation in a market that evolves, in a society that acquires more and more modern features, which goes to the Fourth Industrial Revolution at a rapid pace. The digital working card will be a tool to protect the worker and work by the employer. The consistent worker, who will do his job honestly, will have a tool to pay his hours and overtime in full. Legal state and state to protect both the worker and the employer. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that time passes, technology becomes one with the lives of the citizen, the worker, the businessman, the trader, the employee. The technology that can help us and help us, bring us together and give us a step of expression and representativeness. We are living in the era of personal discrimination, personal rise, personal struggle. Our societies work like bees. In bees, workers bees tolerate drones only in periods of abundance. But in times struggling to keep the bee and manage their food properly, their drones ostracize. The drones in the new era of societies, ladies and gentlemen, have no place. The value of work can now be measured and compensated for by the conscientious worker, the good employee, the right and the right businessman. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is historic and I will repeat what the people of caves with meanings and cries said: We live historical times. The value of work is weighted and measurable. The conscientious and honest worker will be protected from bad employers. The hard worker will be paid for accordingly and better. The digital card will be a powerful worker protection tool. The union will acquire greater representation and participation. This bill places Greece in the leadership of Europe. It enhances the working environment. It protects the family and the new parents. It creates conditions of development and progress in a global society that goes to the Fourth Industrial Revolution, on whose chariot Greece with the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has risen to an influential position. We are defending democracy, freedom of expression, pluralism. We serve Greece and our Greek fellow citizens. We are defending the worker and the worker, the employer and the employer, without discrimination, without labels. We serve the Greek citizens, the Greek family. So I urge you to vote on this important issue of work and our fellow citizens' bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr Cretan, and respect for the time. Mr. Nikolaos Papastassis of the Communist Party of Greece is called in Stepma. Mr. Papastasis, you are from the party you have to say a lot, and I understand that. Please, as far as possible...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u195	I'll ask, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u196	I knew you'd ask before you got up. Don't worry. Please, do it for colleagues, not for me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u197	And today, the role and task of the government is to appall the demands of the great employer. Our task, in contrast, along with the workers, is to reveal your dishonest practices that are implemented and related to this bill. Your bill has already been convicted by thousands of workers. Thousands of strikes stood against employers' terrorism, ignored government repression, such as thousands and those who demanded and demanded its withdrawal. It's a bill that doesn't get bundles, it doesn't improve, it doesn't excite. And because it's going to be demolished, it's total for the balls. In every word your horror is captured against the power that workers can gain when fighting massively when fighting collectively. That's what you want to hit with the bill, that's your goal, because that's what you're afraid of. Now, with regard to the geography of the legislative abstention, it contains two main packages of proposals. One is the regulation of working conditions and redundancies. The second, which is the great overthrow of what we knew in post-military terms, puts the right to trade union action, the organization of trade unions, the protection of trade unions and the right to strike. Your cake also has cherry, which is the tombstone in what has been left to date in collective labour agreements. In the first bundle, beyond the general anti-government direction, there are articles that mark the size of overthrows at the expense of workers. For example, Article 16 is a raw, violent interference in the rest of workers. For the first time, it is determined how long the break will be and that beyond working time, in addition. Usually this was in union and employer agreement or where there was no union between the workers and the employer. Now it is determined with unresolved rigour. In no case shall it exceed half an hour, regardless of the nature, gravity, risk and any specific nature of the work. Even this excludes the possibility of collective bargaining. It is incomprehensible that break time is in addition to working time. In other words, the government is now coming to legalize the practice of extortion which the employer was already illegally applying to workers, which at eight hours did it eight-and-a-half hours. Today the employers rub their hands. Article 57 is literally a disgraceful article that has been reacting to even yours. Provision of additional work by parttime employees. It's an amendment of old law. Here the famous ‘zero hours contract’, the zero-time contract, is introduced for the first time, exportable product from the United Kingdom. In other words, the worker on the phone is waiting and the employer can bring him to work in the morning for another two hours this afternoon. It has so far been true that part-time work cannot be applied with short-term working hours. For the first time this is abolished and the worker can be invited to work, for example, for two hours in the morning and for two hours in the afternoon. And if he does both hours overtime in the morning and so many more in the afternoon, four and four, here's how he closed the eighth. As for the remuneration, this is EUR 316 for parttime work plus 40% for overtime, we go to EUR 620-630, with the employer having a full eight hours. More friendly, he's dying! And I come to Rule 58 on the remuneration for overcoming working time. It is not only that the time of legal overtime is increasing to fifty, that is to say, 50% increase in industry, since until now the legal overtime has been ninety-six, but it is indeed inconceivable and the hardness of this legislative abstention, as it provides for three hours of overtime, adding to these three hours and one hour of overworking, for which the employer can lawfully force someone to stay at work. The hours are four. If we add all eight hours of normal working time, we go to 12 hours. If we add the break, we go to twelve and a half, thirteen hours. This, according to the Government, is a charitable policy. Of course, this was done today with ergonomic arbitrary. Here, however, is where the false - charitable government legalises it even with a cheaper overtime pay. It tells the employers clearly "Get out of staff and whenever it suits you in terms of profitability, you get them again". It encourages, for example, tourist enterprises to generalise the model of part-time work. And I'm coming to the tenth. Nearly all the government voices that have been heard so far have been wondered where we see that eight hours are being abolished. We do not just say that the eight hours are being abolished, we say that with this unregulated'save' you are going to legalise the already illegally abolished eight hours. Today, with the existing legislative framework, 17% of workers work over forty-eight hours a week and 33% work weekends as well. Who says that? One of your tools, ELSTAT. Has he already been banned for eight hours for them? The answer is 'of course'. So, all of the so far government speakers or read papers that you have shared to them without knowing what they read or lie consciously and unconsciously. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The abolition of the Sunday holiday - another method of government disinformation - you have now presented it as a labour requirement. This article adds thirty-five new branches to work on Sunday. Here, of course, to be fair, we have to say that the thirty-two of the fifty-two total Sundays - the holidays of the year had already been stolen by thousands of workers, SYRIZA. And we are talking about a huge volume of workers employed in retail and wholesale trade, but also in tourism, and from May to early November, they forget what is a weekend. No matter where you catch this bill, it clearly shows that government and wealthy rule go hand in hand. Workers will not be slaves in the 20th century. The class struggle shows the way and will give the final answer. The Communist Party of Greece is at the forefront of the struggle along with many thousands of workers and every day that they pass will become more and more, no matter how much you fight it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much, Mr Papastasis. I would also like to thank Mr Mela for accepting my request. And now I will give Mrs Ahtsoglu the floor from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Mella, Mrs. Ahchioglu! Sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, for weeks now we have been confronted with the labour bill, the government by the mouth of Mr Hatzidakis, by the Prime Minister's mouth, says that by this bill he is legislating for the protection and interests of workers. I think it won't take me more than three, four minutes to prove to you what interests it just legislates and what interests it serves. I would point out, therefore, that the study entitled 'The future of work in a changing world', published in a special report on BSE, says BSE: 'The rapid technological developments and the COVID crisis have shown that the human resources should be flexible and resilience'. The "Hatzidakis" bill comes to make these vague concepts, flexibility and durability specific to the two basic arrangements. One relates to work for more than eight hours without additional pay, a forecast which obviously exhausts the worker, apparently reduces his wages and obviously creates a stimulus for new recruitments since the employer can "manage" the existing worker. However, it is doing the BSE request. The other regulation, which deals with the fact that parttime workers will now have to work more than agreed hours, at waste hours, obviously dismantles the private life of the worker, obviously eliminates him and obviously creates a stimulus for new recruitment. However, it is doing the BSE request. But let's go a little further, 'cause things get more interesting. In a recent article by the Senior Advisor of BSE, in the BSE sector, it speaks of the urgent need to increase the anachronistic limits, as it says, of legal overtime work. Mr Hatzidakis' bill comes to do exactly this, that is to say it increases the limits of legal overtime to 50 hours per annum, which obviously jeopardizes the health of workers, obviously prevents new recruitment and obviously coupled with the adjustment of working time, can also lead to work for up to thirteen hours per day. However, it is doing the BSE request. In a BSE conference on "The future of work after the Memorandum", the BSE Management Officer argues that the problem of Law 1264, the trade union law, is the excessive range of protection for trade unions. So the Hatzidakis bill also comes here and does this desire and reduces the number of trade unions protected from dismissal. In a text of the Association of Thessaly and Central Greece Industries at the same BSE conference, the Association proposes that overtime should be recorded electronically, overtime, overtime changes, but retrospectively. After providing the job, the employer must have a margin of days to change, change, declare otherwise, etc. Obviously, post-retrospective registration does not allow control and obviously leaves room for any form of employers' immunity and employer's arbitrariness. Mr Hatzidakis' bill comes to do just this, that is to say the employer's right to rectify all these changes in the working hours and amend them, that is to say, to act another request from the BSE question. In an article by the Legal Adviser to BSE on labour matters it says in particular: it would be desirable, it says, a regulation in which the trade union organisation which declares a strike will take responsibility for the work of the strikers, and even for the penalty. In other words, it must also have some legal effect on taking up this responsibility. The Hatzidakis bill provides precisely that the trade union organization declaring the strike is responsible for the work of the strikers. In fact, it is foreseen that if it fails to fulfil its responsibility, then the strike will also be void, but the trade union organization will also have to pay compensation. The neoliberal "think tank", the Centre for Liberal Studies (KEFIM), his beloved Mr.Mitsotakis, in a recent study on labour, suggests that, among other things, the employer should be given the opportunity instead of warning the employee about dismissal, to dismiss him immediately, paying more as compensation. Mr Hatzidakis' bill also implements this very demand, namely that the employer be able to get over with the worker very quickly, without any other ones and leave the worker completely undisturbed. It also provides for something even more extreme, that in the event of a dismissal being declared void by the court, the employer will not have the responsibilities and consequences of the nullity, i.e. to pay late payment and re-take him, but will be relieved of these obligations, as if the court had not decided that the dismissal was void! The CPMM also specifically asks - everything I say is in introductory terms what they have required - that the employer does not comply with the standard conditions for dismissal should not automatically lead to the dismissal being invalidated, but be able to make corrections. Mr. Hatzidakis' bill says exactly that. The CCCTB also says that the dismissal of trade unions should be allowed in every case of great reason and not for the current restrictive cases that exist in the law. Mr Hatzidakis' bill also provides for this request, namely that trade unions should be made redundant in every case of great reason and not just for the current restrictive reasons. So I think it is obvious and there is no need for any further debate on who this government is legislating. Legislation on the hard core of BSE. It's self-proof. What's the aim of this piece of legislation? We have nothing to do with a series of countermeasures. We are dealing with a project that is very structured, very coherent. The project is a project of depreciation of work. It is the project of reducing labour costs. On this road, the government is aware of growth. It was thus understood by this party before 2014. So now he's coming to catch the thread from this plan that he was already implementing by the end of 2014, to continue it. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member rings.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, very briefly. What is the main tool for implementing this project? It's the individual contract of employment. It is the individual contract of employment which allows this inequality to prevail in any event in the parts of the employment relationship, i.e. the employer and the employee. We're talking about two inherently unequal parts. Where there is overpower, an empire of the individual contract of employment, this inequality is established. That is why freedom without equality is not meant. That is why this bill does not release the worker - we have also been told by Mr Hatzidakis - but enslaves him through the pan-state of the individual labour contract. So today, SYRIZA, the trade unions, the entire Opposition to fight, actually to fight this pre-tax status of the individual labour contract, while the needs of the world of work are completely elsewhere. His needs are today in the presence of much greater protection and much more protectionist regulations after what happened with the absolute flexibility that prevailed in COVID. Its needs are to have arrangements for contract workers, to have arrangements to put workers on the platforms under the payroll protection framework, to have more collective agreements covering more workers. Needs lie in moving towards thirty-five hours, without a reduction in wages, creating more full-time jobs and not unleashing existing workers through a tank of cheap overtime and increasing the purchasing power of wages. This is where the needs of work are and not what this bill contains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Mrs Ahchioglu, and the good news! The Communist Party of Greece is now called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u203	The Communist Party of Greece spoke of a criminal bill, a monstrous bill. I believe that the Greek language has too many worldly adjectives and essentials and really no one knows what else to add. However, the substance is not in this general assessment. The New Democracy certainly showed its face clearly and unambiguously with this bill. In other words, the first thing he says - not in words - is 'I am determined at all costs to bring the labour-class movement up to the highest possible level' and, secondly, 'I am prepared to break the labour-union movement with every means, the people's movement'. He said it clearly. Of course, we, as we do not reward hypocrisy, do not reward provocative honesty. However, many have named this debate in Parliament 'Fighting Mother'. That's too much. The battles in Parliament are of value and we feel obliged to give them. But the real battle, the mother or the father of the battles, is judged when a bill is passed in Parliament. There have, of course, been mobilisations before, but for us this bill has to be left on paper. Look, it's no exaggeration at all. Although the trade union movement is at the historically low rate of organization, however, even under conditions of pandemic that were not an easy case, it left many decisions of the Minister of Public Order and the Government on paper. Let me remind you that the government allowed for concentrations of up to nine people. Of course, from nine, it made them a hundred. And strikes were brought together thousands - not only in the center of Athens, but also in other cities - they proved that an important part of the workers - we do not say they are all ready - can the laws leave them on paper. As many words, lines, voices, voices, the bill goes through the House. And we will not repeat what was written in an article in the newspaper "SYNEI", that is to say it is a matter when a bill is passed, because it creates a few featuring and it is difficult to overturn it afterward, there is continuity. What they say is not wrong, because once there is a SYRIZA government - or cooperation - this government cannot abolish this law, not because it cannot find votes to abolish it - I imagine those who at least say stay on paper would vote for its abolition - but because it knows very well that this law is a law that is fully linked to the recovery of capitalist profitability, fully compatible with European practices. I say this because we have heard something strange here, namely that there are best European practices. What is happening in Greece has long been done in Europe. They are global practices and they are not just happening in Europe. In any case, what does it mean to us to'stay on paper'? It means fighting the place of work. If all the factory workers, if all the workers and the workers of a branch strike, what will they do, let them all go? What will they do to them? There's experience. It will therefore remain on the papers when the unified, the fearless, starts from the workplace, from the industry, the region, the region and the way forward. Such struggles were in the 19th century and in the 20th century, with positive results in a phase. In some cases they were taken back. Of course, when measures are taken back to the conditions of capitalism, you must be seen as a winner in the sense that you can continue and increase your struggle even more aggressively. For us it is clear: the New Democracy in this case shows great classic insight. It comes to take such measures of intensity of class exploitation and anti-democratic, anti-government, etc. in particular against the trade union movement, under the conditions of historical retreat of the movement. Why's he taking them? Because he knows that he has to catch up before the reversal of the class struggle begins - sooner or later - because then he can't make it. She has a lot of class insight on her part. Unfortunately, the other opposition parties said what mainly? "When we become a government, we will abolish the law", i.e. "worker, worker, employee, peasant, farmer, self-employed, unemployed graduate, scientist, waited for the next battle, elections." October, December, one year, two years. We're not interested in making a prediction. It's an important form of wrestling, but we're seeing it as a station in the daily course of class struggle. So what did you say? Wait, wait, you don't need to be threatened and fired, you don't have to run up and down, go through any protests now and now and we come forward, when we haven't done anything to organize a protest, a strike, and wait for the elections. Is this the consistent fight against New Democracy's liberal policy? That is why we, too, consider these anti-liberal or anti-liberal fronts to be fronts which undermine, decommission the labour and popular movement instead of pushing it through a climate similar to that for it to develop into a bold river of counter-attack. And in any case, the Step forward has heard things that once again confirm that there is a common line of cruising between the parties that are in Parliament, the parties that have ruled in smaller parties, as was the case with other smaller parties that are not present in the House today. I will give some examples. Firstly, does Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou say: can there be growth with low wages and with anti-government laws and without trade liberties? If it can be done! We're talking about capitalist development. First of all, the impetus of capitalist development and its universal strength to the limits of a state, one country became after a great French revolution and other urban revolutions, which used the equipped people to take this power. Capitalist development we have the period of dictatorships in Europe, Latin America and so on. We even have in the colonies, even though they were under the colonial regime, they became capitalist growth. Capitalist development is neither done with democracy - urban democracy - nor with increases in wages and so on. because we're talking about capitalist development. And this argument only proves that the change that you are seeking is just a change of governance. Secondly, there has been a debate on the strike and the right to strike. Look, right now, we're putting New Democracy into the candle. He's the protagonist, she brought the bill. But we cannot get out of the kandros during the PASOK period, during the PASOK-New Democracy cooperation period, during the SYRIZA period. I have heard, for example, from KINAL strains and from PASOK officials, who are now in SYRIZA, who were also members of PASOKs for the importance of trade union freedoms. They started with Law 1264. Of course, Law 1264 in relation to Law 330 was an important step forward. This is what laws are of value. Let me remind you of something that isn't about working class, so we don't forget them either. When the executive extracts of the Senate government pierced the tires of the tractors of thousands of farmers on the highway, what was that? The trade union freedoms? Wasn't there anything on SYRIZA? Isn't there a peculiar name for the people's residence for the cancellation of auctions? Wasn't there an MAT hit? Of course, there was much less of the cases of violence in SYRIZA, because it did not have to be done, because unfortunately the delusional and hopes of SYRIZA spread to a large part of the people and were also given time. It was also the crisis and everything was due to the crisis, etc. I say this because, look at capitalism, profitability for capital, that is, it develops with trade union freedoms and without trade liberties. When we say 'development', at least know what development we are talking about. Let's get another side. Of course, it was right in the eighth hour, in the tenth hour, to set working time. The New Democracy argues that the eight hours will remain, of course, forgetting that daily working time is the decisive one. When you go to a doctor, he asks you how many hours you sleep, how many hours you have free time, how many hours you work. He doesn't tell you how many hours the time is for the week, the month or the time. And we, of course, defend the eighth hour and all the parties today appear defenders of the eighth. The New Democracy in its own deceitful way, the other parties in their own way. However, as you place working time and wages with increases etc., there is at the same time a great deal of cover, that the worker, the employee, does not receive an eight-hour salary, not even a ten-hour salary, even seven-hour daily, which we are fighting - five days a week, thirty-five hours a week - is paid for two, three hours of work. The rest of the work is unpaid. The labour force, man’s ability to work is the maximum of goods in capitalism because it produces value. Machines if you leave them unused produce no value. The money if you put it in a closet doesn't produce any value. And that's the story. In this sense, therefore, we, when we go to the working class, take into account the correlation of powers, that a large part is unorganised, in what condition are the poor populaces of the city and the countryside, and put forward demands radically, taking into account the role of technology, industrial revolutions. Fourth industrial revolution, he says. That means seven hours, six hours, five hours. I don't know. We accept it. The JRC could not propose seven hours in 1918. In the socialist countries, however, it happened in the Soviet Union. Of course, we take science into account. Alas. But you're covering up all this with working time. The wage is shown to cover the whole working time. The button is that. Firstly, the working time necessary and the unpaid and, secondly, the individual arrangement made to break the labour movement. It is even worse for individual settlement than the government's crime with the new anti-operative laws. We say, then, in the working class and in its allies, in the poor people's strata that, of course, capitalism has great power, it is powerful worldwide. That's well known. In Greece, too. He's strong not because there are charismatic leaders and smart parties, but because the bourgeois class has ownership and power in her hands. But workers have a super-arm in their hands, ideological, political and weapon fighter. The core of this superpower is to realize the following thing: that a society can live without capitalists, without working class, workers, there is no such society. Will you tell me where we saw this? We saw it in the 20th century. I know what you will answer: Where is socialism today, where is the socialist system? The victory of the counter-revolution in the countries of socialism is the great confirmation of this general position. Capitalism had five hundred years of experience, of course not all over the world, but in the first countries that appeared. Socialist construction was a new book from one point to the next without a plan. We are not saying this to blur the mistakes, but precisely in these countries there has been no revolution. Did you see any armed revolution in the French press, type 1821, the people took the guns and kicked them out? The system itself was eroded, when? When faced with the new problems facing them, they borrowed and used solutions to capitalism. From there on, of course, erosion and downhill began. Even the mistakes made in socialism, which we do not forgive, confirm this thing, that a society can live and develop with the working class in power and does not need the capitalists. Whenever he used them he was corroborated, and their parties are understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pappiga. Mr. Mella's turn is finally here. In Stepma, Mr.Ioannis Melas is therefore called upon to New Democracy, who is elected in the First Piraeus. Mr Vassiliadis from New Democracy, Mr. Christoforos Vernardakis, will be followed and we will be closed with Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos from the Change Movement. You have the floor, Mr. Mella.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u206	And I thank you for the two concessions you made in relation to your order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u207	In Piraeus we are knights, as you said!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u208	Sure. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u209	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on a bill on labour matters is always a debate with too many disagreements and a lot of controversy. The reason for this is because labour issues in the past were a key point of friction and ideological confrontation between the parties. The left was supposed to fight for the worker, while the 'bad' right-wing workers served the employer. Many people in the left have, in fact, made careers in trade unionism and politics by cultivating this division and even trying to sow it today, but fortunately without success. The opposition accuses us of abolishing the eighth hour, accusing us of institutionalising unpaid overtime, accusing us of declaring war in the world of work, as the Chief of Officerial Opposition said. But do these claims actually respond? Of course not. After all, one can see that simply by reading what this bill writes. Neither are we abolishing, nor are we establishing unpaid overtime, nor have we declared war on the world of work. Instead, we are creating a bill, a protective framework for workers, an institutional framework that is friendly to attract new investments. A key point of criticism for the bill is the adjustment of working time. The organization of working time does not remove eight hours or replace overtime. It is an alternative to the worker, which has been valid in Greece since 1990. With the change to be made by the worker solely on his own initiative and initiative, he will be able to propose and regulate his working time. Let's see what's going on today. The day-to-day arrangement is, therefore, determined by either business collective agreements, either by agreement between the employer and the trade union or by agreement between the employer and the association of persons. If more than twenty employees work in one enterprise, the association of persons should be at least 25%, if they are less than twenty people, 15% should be involved in the association, i.e. about three people if they are twenty. So I heard a lot of colleagues from SYRIZA and Mr Tsakalotos some time ago, who wondered whether, with the arrangement, this free working hours are being created, with these flexible forms of work, productivity is increasing. This question was raised by Mr Tsakalotos and by Mr Tsakalotos to the Minister of Labour, to the State Secretary, to the Government. Our question is: rather than put it to us why do they not ask the same question to the members of the SYRIZA who in 2011 voted for Law 3986 and Article 42, which precisely defines working time? One of the Members who then voted on this article was Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou and there are others who are not currently in the Chamber. And I put the roll-call vote in the Minutes, which was then, to see who has voted on it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Melas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The question is as follows. All right, then they voted for it, now there are some people at SYRIZA today. The years when SYRIZA was in government, and while this provision was in force, why didn't it repeal it? So why have they not abolished the flexible working hours that are now coming and characterized as an anti-government? Why do they not want to give the right to a new student who decides to do a postgraduate and decides that some hours of the week he wants to work harder because some other days he has a course and wants to go to attend his postgraduate courses? Why disagree with a mother being able to stay a few hours longer with her child, possibly working for her children and a few hours longer? In fact, in order to know what we are saying, what comes from today's bill and brings about is that only the worker can individually change this arrangement of his time, which can directly agree with his employer and thus overcome the workers and professional trade unionists who want to depend on them for their own party purposes. But let's go further. But we hear you disagree with the whole bill. So do you disagree with the introduction of the teleworking framework and the right to decouple for workers, which is currently no such operating framework? Do you disagree with the extension of the cases of invalid redundancies? He will be void by this bill a father's dismissal which for six months after his child was born was fired. The dismissal of workers who did not undergo pressure from their employer will be invalid in order to submit a request for a settlement. The dismissal of workers who have exercised the right to disconnect will be invalid. Do you disagree with taking steps to deal with violence and harassment at the workplace? Do you disagree with the introduction of the protection framework for workers on digital platforms? Too many young people work on digital platforms, work as a delivery, work on tourism platforms and we are currently creating a protection framework for them. Finally, I would like to ask you: do you disagree with a provision which is a constant request from the workers' representatives, the equalisation of their allowances with those of employees? And one proposal that could still be made by the Ministry is that we need to consider this with the improvement and certification of workers' skills. I would like to mention a minute, Mr President, if I have your tolerance, and the digital working card, an important innovation in the interests of both the workers and the employer themselves. Its use will help to combat black and reported work, tax evasion and undeclared overtime. The worker will have his card, he will hit it when he starts his work and when he finishes, and he will do the same with his overtime. In this way, therefore, real overtime will be paid. The digital working card shall be established as the main measuring and checking instrument for the maintenance of the working time. It will be connected electronically with ‘ERGANI II’ which will record any change in working time. The "ERGANI" is also to be upgraded and processed digitally, and will also be available via gov.gr. It will be financed by the Recovery Fund and promoted in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance. Finally, I want to say the following. The regulation of the bill is not against the worker, as the opposition is trying to get through to society. They operate in their own interest, ensuring the balance between their professional life and privacy. They face problems and restore injustices, especially with regard to women and young people. Working conditions change, technological developments introduce new forms into work, such as teleworking. Greece cannot, therefore, stay in the past and in the anachronistic stereotypes and slogans of the Left, which no longer meet the needs of the era. You choose the past. We choose to follow the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr. Mela. I will apologise to Mr Vassiliou, but I have to give the floor to Mrs Sophia Sakova from Mera25, because she will preside at 17.00 p.m. Mrs Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the new government bill is another challenge against society. No matter how nice words you use, no matter how hard you try to hide the truth, reality is one. You want to put another bold reform into your political curriculum. This is why the unthinkable dismantling of social and individual rights is called in neoliberalism. In the field of work, the government doctrine 'The crisis and pandemic as an opportunity' is implemented. Bring Article 55 where you are supposed to hold the eighth hour and the forty hours a week in the course of the week. Everyone tells you that this article doesn't need to because all of this is already guaranteed. So why do you put it? But to show it on the channels, to use it as a front to hide, if possible, the other articles of the bill, which serve a purpose, circumvention and degradation of the protection that is currently in force. In the same way, you are using as a front and the individual positive provisions of the bill, which are of minor importance, of course. It would therefore be more honest if you said that the thresholds were established, eight hours, five hours, forty hours, but as a threshold and not a ceiling for employment. Your purposes, if they are not already known, are immediately evident. But, in legality, your liberal legislative utility is totally problematic. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also tells you that the wording of Rule 55 is problematic, since it offers a backing for clearing. Accordingly, the Scientific Committee also states that work time should be adjusted and that additional employment should be increased unpaidly in Article 59. It says that the original value of individual workers' and employer's agreements is disputed by labour law, precisely because of the dependence of the former on the latter. Furthermore, no prior inclusion of the Agreement in the ERGAN system is provided for in order to be known for control and to ensure compliance with it. Truly, to what extent does the government consider that it has the possibility and the right to underestimate the intelligence of all the others? So, dominance and dominance of the individual contract at the alleged request of the worker? Are you pretending to be equal places? You know that it is not and that it cannot be an equal place for the employer and the employee, and indeed for each individual worker. You say that as neoliberals you are bold in reforms. If you were bold, you would have the courage to say directly and what your purpose is and what interests you choose to serve. Maybe you're right, we can talk about it. But let us confess to your political view that, for the sake of the economy and the country, the rights and interests of the employer must now prevail for the future. If you have the political courage for what you are doing, rather than putting a title in the "protecting labour" bill, or provoking everyone in public to protect or strengthen workers. Seriously, gentlemen of the Collapse, individual agreement and free will of the worker in the settlement of working time and unpaid overworking in the country where the gifts of the holidaymakers are collected with the workers to go to the take-off machine with the employer or another trusted firm, even a good one, to give him the money immediately? In the country where even the large, organised and above-thinking businesses, such as banks, have they proved to be blackmailing and systematically exploiting black superprocess? "Protection of work" and Article 58, where you increase overtime to 50 per year from ninety-six years ago in industry and a hundred and twenty in other sectors. 'Protection of work' and the amendment to the law of redundancies. But here too, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament tells you that a framework of diversion is being formed from the requirement to protect the right to work, which is in Article 22 of the Constitution. In a similar way, you are also taking another big step in extending work on Sunday to a large number of businesses and a large number of employees. You probably do not have the courage there to go directly to abolish the holiday, which you believe in the depths of your opinion as liberals and promote it, because you know it serves the interests of the strong people of the market. Because you know that it changes the conditions of competition and eliminates the strengths and sustainability of the weakest entrepreneurship. Analogous lateral method, of course, in strikes. It would be more honest than a universal legislative ban, ladies and gentlemen. But you can't do it. There is not enough government courage and political openness. You bring Articles 91, 93 and 95. Add and accumulate provisions to form a framework where all or almost all strikes will be judged illegal. However, even before today's bill 90% of strikes were deemed illegal. The Association of Judges and Prosecutors tells you that. Perhaps, on the basis of a sample of the parity of the parties and the value of the assent to circumvent all this unnecessary anti-laboratory legislation, replace it with a law and an article, that the strike is only allowed upon agreement or at the request of the employer. You are, of course, taking advantage of the fact that you have a trade union movement alienated to its central expression, a trade union movement that the sovereign political forces have done all they can to deceive, to come today and to invoke this deception by speaking of 'em-papers'. The method is known. So you have for many years deceived and public enterprises, to invoke after being reappointed for their next steps. For reasons of identity, I will mention to Mr Hatzidakis only the characteristic examples of Olympic and PPC. I'm hanging up with one last thing. Minister - if you were in the Chamber - we have in the relevant committees mentioned the need for Greece finally to ratify two fundamental international conventions: on 131 of 1970 for minimum wages and wages and on 154 of 1981 for the promotion of collective bargaining. In fact, in the committee for the first time, you committed yourself to doing so, to bringing it to the House. However, today you are bringing the ratification of two other international conventions, but not of them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa. The Bureau gives an example. It's only fourteen seconds late. Mr Vassiliou has the floor from New Democracy and beautiful Pella.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the success of New Democracy in the July 2019 elections is based on a series of political commitments that it has made to the Greek people and which it has gradually implemented since the first day. The sovereign commitment of the New Democracy and Prime Minister Mrs Mitsotakis was to create many and good new jobs for all. Since then, we have known that this is not easy. There are no magic wands that create jobs. Neither with a law nor an article comes development. The aim of our programme and the objective of the government today is to create the economic environment of the one that attracts investment, particularly those requiring skilled human resources. All this time we have seen legislative initiatives in this very direction. And it is interesting and, of course, optimistic that, despite its pandemic and unprecedented effects, we keep seeing announcements from large companies abroad, the technology sector, for example, who choose Greece to invest. We want these businesses, the businesses that are looking ahead to sectors of the future. But what are we talking about today? We have before us a legislative initiative by the government which modernises the framework of labour law in order to be able to meet the challenges of the future. It is therefore a pity, ladies and gentlemen, that the opportunity for substantial dialogue and productive political confrontation is lost once again on such a serious subject, within the aid of slogans of previous decades, not to say centuries. We cannot talk today about the work of the future in terms of 2017, when the pandemic has accelerated changes in the very nature of the work, let alone in terms of 1917. Nor, of course, is attachment to Law 1264/1982, a law which we must say that, if anything, has proved to be endurance in time. In my opinion, therefore, the Ministry of Labour has now worked out and brings an integrated draft law with a developmental nature which lays the foundations for the work relations of the future. However, what stands out from the proposed provisions is the social nature of the draft law because, as we have said, we want many jobs, but we also want good jobs. Nor do we want, nor do we legislate, of course, the 'wild women' of the 21st century, as I have seen, with other inappropriate real excesses in public dialogue. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, the aims of the draft law are to combat black labour, the supposed work, the undeclared overtime and the exploitation of workers, all the problems that workers face outside in the real economy. Of the most important reforms I stand out for the gradual implementation of the digital labour card, which, together with the upgrading of the 'ERGANI' system, limits time and bureaucracy, introducing more transparency into labour relations. In addition, the Labour Inspectorate is upgraded to an independent authority. In the context of the time-consuming dilemma “whoever controls the auditors” and who is aware of the successful previous ADP, open objective selection procedures of the Management Board, approved by Parliament, are introduced. It introduces greater transparency into trade union by introducing the possibility of worker participation in the decisions, while entering the strikes as well. Mr President, I come to a series of social reform which one would expect, even of these, to support. I am of course referring to the introduction of new permits for parents and caregivers, such as the 14-day leave for young fathers and the parental leave of both parents by the OAED. This is where one would expect us to agree. He would expect us to agree on the system for regulating working time, an institution that has been in existence for decades in the developed countries of Europe. However, we have listened to these provisions and unfortunately we are still hearing the greatest inaccuracies. Neither an eight-hour abolition, no day-out payment, nor unpaid overtime are foreseen, ladies and gentlemen of the counterpopulation. That's enough of the misinformation! Another innovation in this legislation is, of course, the introduction of a right of disconnection to teleworking. Our country is in the first place. And here is a clear look at the future of the government and the ministry that I'm trying to highlight. I do not want to omit and not to mention the adoption of the Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation and the measures envisaged to combat violence and harassment at work. It is very important that such phenomena be treated with speed and rigour. Finally - and I conclude with this, Mr President - I would also like to refer to the amendment/addition of the Ministry of Finance, number 931 and number 64, in particular Article 7, which provides for the finalisation of pre-sales agreements without the presentation of certificates. This is an important issue that concerns a large number of real estates, especially in Northern Greece, which I have repeatedly put to the Ministry of Finance. I sincerely am pleased that the first step has been taken towards the final solution. However, it needs to be made clear that the ENVY certificate is also being sought by any third party, except by the same prefecture and owner of a pre-agreed buyer, as in many cases, for example, contractors who may not even be in life, but also by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Minister, are being asked for an initiative concerning proof of insurance information. In expressing my support for the bill, I believe, Mr President, that its vote will prove to be of historic importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr Vassiliou. You're always right on time. Mr Christoforos Vernardakis is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Elected in 1st Athens. The tenth circle of speakers will be closed with Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos from the Change Movement. Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. The bill is submitted at a time when we have four general features. Firstly, the share of private-sector labour in the private sector in the decades of the crisis fell by more than eight percentage points of national income with a corresponding increase in the share of profits. This was translated into an absolute reduction in private sector wages. Secondly, there was an increase in overtime which, by redistributing working hours, could employ a corresponding number of unemployed, estimated at about thirty-eight thousand full-time jobs. In other words, a substrate of frozen overwork was formed which this bill is moving to extend institutions. This also contributes to the high rate of seasonal employment, which is the most vulnerable to employers' arbitrage. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over by the H' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Sakhara Sakhara]] Third, the increase in the company’s profit rate was not accompanied by a corresponding increase in fixed capital investments. On the contrary, reluctance or abstention of investment is found and, in addition, parasitic and slow capital demanded a share of the national product, by further compressing the wage earner. And that is what is happening while, on the other hand, we are talking about the fourth industrial revolution and about policies around this strategy. Totally different things. Totally different directions of the market and of course also of the government. Fourthly, the period was coloured and the consequences of the pandemic, which used and serves as a macabre vehicle for deep reactionary policies at work. This bill thus goes to excessively optimize labour relations. It destroys to the limits of the constitutional challenge the provisions of labour law by extremistly avoiding collective rights of employees, by dismantling both the form and the content of the work and the abolition in practice of the eighth. The bill attempts to regulate almost all labour relations issues in the direction of a reactionary restructuring. However, one is his main target, his central strategic objective and we must not lose him from our analysis: the in-depth change of work by introducing flexible forms of employment, which will be facilitated by teleworking, platforms and so on. The tool to enforce this policy and this strategic objective is to pursue the generalization of individual contracts, to elasticise labour relations, to reduce the social collective nature of work. Informal working relationships are introduced and are planned to gradually dominate zero-time contracts, the so-called'mini-jobs', the workers' nomads and various other labour-related phenomena that are widely observed in European countries, in other countries, but slowly in Greece. Many of them have been mentioned. I shall just briefly mention the keys to the bill, because they have been analysed. The first is to intervene in the working time, with the substantial abolition of the contractual eighth hour, to replace it from the tenth hour and to establish the generalisation of unpaid overtime. Here, let us keep this: this policy aims to increase the profits of the employer, not by increasing production or sales, but by parasitic means by reducing the wages and saving the costs of overtime workers. It's a return to the systems of anachronistic capitalism of absolute goodwill. In the second, too many have been mentioned. It's interference with the right to strike. The third is the intervention in redundancies. I will make a reference to the fourth major issue, the intervention in the control of employment infringements with the Independent Labour Inspectorate and the deterioration of the EIC, namely the delegation of an independent authority. It is the consistent line of extremist neoliberalism to pass political responsibilities, responsibilities and tasks of political authority, administrative power, to pass administrative material on hybrids of supposedly independent administrative authorities, outside formal parliamentary and political control and outside the sphere of competences of public administration and civil servants. We constantly see it, we see it extensively. This bill comes to complement this strategic choice made in a reactionary, in our view, transformation of the state itself and the government mechanism. The draft law acts as a siege of the employer against work methodically, combined. However, we must take account of the time in the present, future and past work. This bill must not be seen in fragmentary terms. It is a central element in a full-scale attack puzzle at work and is currently being conducted, in this time, where it ensures that a suffocating framework for the subjection of wage labour at the employer's, by eliminating the collective social status of the worker and so on. Many reports have been reported. Secondly, in future time, undermining social mobility with policies in the field of education: Removal of university departments, reduction of the number of admissions to the HEIs, academic and financial deterioration of graduates, alignment of diplomas on professional rights with college papers. In other words, it is an attack on the ability of children in the barracks to upgrade their social position in the future. But - let us not forget - in the past year, that is to say, in the property data-shared work that has been done and done. This is unprecedented and is attempted by the broad application of the new bankruptcy code, which will impair the bankrupt citizens. It is a purely robbery and re-racial snatching policy from capital even the past of wage earner work, literally acting as a vampire and a zombie. The parasitic capital, instead of letting it be destroyed, survives, expropriating dead work. It is a huge overall political change that this government is attempting. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this field, the neoliberal government's planned attack on insurance - pension, its privatisation company and the consolidation of so-called 'flexicurity' systems should be added. It is true that the needs of modern governance require that wage levels be safeguarded and that they be increased in line with GDP growth and more specifically, by increasing the income generated by industry and, of course, by increasing the productivity of labour, restoring collective negotiations to strengthen the job position towards employers, overthrowing the process of elasticising labour relations and restoring the reduced rights with a greater range of...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Comrade, you need to close down slowly, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u217	I'm closing, Madam President. Finally, by strengthening control mechanisms and restoring and reorganising the EIC to the core of the administrative and political system. In this political direction, we must resist social and labour extortion. There is no surplus, no political party, no citizen, no political current. Only a large political and social front can change the flow of evolving social barbarism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u218	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Constantopoulos has the floor now from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if something is proud of the modern Greek state, it is the basic principles that have been introduced with the modernisation of Eleftherios Venizelos. One of its parts was the introduction of the eighth and acceptance of the relationship possible and weak, as the hundred years characterize Greek Labour Law. I should like to point out that the relationship between possible - impossible in the end results in the weaker trades always collectively. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time of great insecurity, where eight hours are questioned, we would say with absolute debauchment to the workers, that we have before us, and see that the individual prevails collectively and I would say that the concept of trade unionism is being undermined in principle. By the way, the union that even the new US President Joe Biden would say defended, saying America wasn't built by Wall Street, but by the great middle class, a middle class that just formed through unionism. It should be stressed here that a few days earlier, he had signed a presidential decree to raise the minimum wage to $15, an increase of 37%, but also an increase in taxation on businesses. And one wonders? Is the President of the United States of America, or is he expressing one of the conflicts with the major changes taking place around the world? The pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, has shown that the model of work with minimum protection and minimum rights has failed. It is time, then, for us all to get over it. So is the logic of the cheap and impoverished workforce, as well as the low-income rights, a model which is already in place - particularly, I would say - in the emerging Asian economies. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, this cannot and should not be the future of Europe, let alone these issues, such as the eighth hour, collective agreements and, in general, employment rights have been our social contract in Greece. Here, Minister, the question arises: why is such a bill today? What's he doing? What's he serving? The answer is: It serves the doctrine of society, which is made up of individuals, where the law of the most powerful always prevails. What's the result? The government, ladies and gentlemen, has been ruining labour law, as we have seen in recent decades. Its intentions, I would say, also seemed during the pandemic, where it did not choose the subsidisation of six hundred thousand workers, who remained living with EUR 534 throughout the quarantine period and while at the same time at the same time at the very same time at the risk of having a new social crisis. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, substantially affects the labour market as a whole, opens the way to universal flexibility, the reduction of pay and the liberalisation of redundancies, the weakening of collective bargaining in the face of the individual arrangement of working time and the limitation of the right to trade and strike. This, Minister, is only not called the protection of workers, and I wonder why it is provokingly referred to in the title of the bill. You're turning, Minister, the Labour Inspectorate, the APRC into an independent authority. In fact, here I would say, to an independent authority that the House does not choose its leadership, but who? The Minister. The conclusions, Minister, are yours. Here I would remind you of Article 101 of the Constitution on the procedure for the election of members of the independent authority. Persons shall be chosen by decision of the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament. In order to be independent, therefore, Minister, its members and President must be appointed by the Conference of Presidents. Therefore, if you really mean the APRC as an Independent Authority and want the Independent Authority to make the necessary corrections immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, development does not match the immunity of the powerful and the exploitation of the weak. That is why they must be supported and not denounced by the trade unions and collective bargaining. In other words, employers cannot be uncontrollable. What do we see in the bill? Every day, even ten hours, and this when it comes for an employer and without an increase in earnings. In other words, overtime takes place here, or a corresponding reduction in working hours within a six-month period. So we see a working labyrinth without seeing the exit thing. Madam Minister, what do we see in Europe? We see in Europe the position of the social partners and social representation being strengthened at the same time as we here are leading to state corporation. And many wonder what the government is doing. So the government is using European reality as appropriate. It hides behind the so-called good practices of other countries of the European Union. At the same time, it does not compare uneven data from other countries. In Europe, Minister, there are different economic sectors, differently the productive model, different employment conditions. So it can't be and no such comparisons should be made. See you all of this with full awareness of what will follow. Because it's really going to follow a grey situation at work. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be burned with dry and green. There are provisions in the bill that are moving in the right direction, such as the abolition of a worker-office distinction, Article 64, the reversal of the burden of proof due to the cancellation of dismissal in specific cases, Article 66, the control of overtime, the right of disconnection to telework, Article 67, the provision of provision for matters of violence and harassment at work, and the reconciliation of family life and work, such as paternity leave. Also positive is the digital card in Article 74. I'll say a few words about the digital card here. It was a piece of legislation of PASOK, the government of George Papandreou in the Ministry of Justice Andreas Loverdus. The digital card could be an insurance policy as a basic measuring instrument of time and control for its compliance. Here to stress, Minister, that the digital working card is connected electronically to the information system "ERGANI" and actually records any change in the working time of the worker. Of course, its implementation will be judged in practice and we will keep that, given the new arrangement of working time, where the tenth hour will have immediate effect. Here the digital card will start to operate pilotly in large companies. So we'll actually see how it works. Ladies and gentlemen, since I have never been a destructor, I have also referred to the positive arrangements of the bill. However, Minister, the core of the bill is disastrous both for industrial relations and for employment rights. What do we see here? Providing benefits only for the employer. That is why we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u220	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are now going to the eleventh cycle of speakers with a natural presence and I invite Mr. Konsola from New Democracy to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy today, because since 1982 the last reform of labour matters has been under discussion today. And it cannot be disputed that setting up an independent authority is an important issue for work. It cannot be disputed that the issue relating to the protection of work, which is a matter of focus and dominance in this bill, is a very important issue and it cannot be disputed that issues relating to the balance of work between privacy, family and social - working life are a very important issue. We must not have impurities, we must avoid any ideological differences or any possible and philosophical differences in work to say that we must now discuss self-evidently, converging in such a way that the citizen can prosper, but above all be happy in a workplace where the challenges are now great. I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because social transformation, digital transformation and the very reality that is being done impose consensus, shocks and reforms. And this bill has elements of reformist effort, a legislative initiative that I think the most skeptical observer will be able to record key elements of understanding for this bill in an institutional framework that the country needs to go ahead. Let us all consider how much has changed since 1982. Too much. Workplaces, staff compositions in an enterprise, in an administrative structure, different challenges from abroad, different needs of workers, professionals, entrepreneurs. This all compose a new reality and, above all, how many new jobs have been integrated into a different life, a work culture now, which these new professions create new needs and new conditions. Employment with technological developments has differentiated work from previous decades. How important, then, has the 'free time' factor become to create a form of balance between family and working life? I have heard and heard voices from the Qualified Opposition and also from fellow Members from the other parties, with a rhetoric in their positions that has a reference point in the past. Allow me, however, to present my thoughts. The country and the citizens are waiting to hear and want to hear proposals primarily for the future but also for the present, not for the past. It is true that the past teaches us, both on the one hand and on the other. But we need to move forward and see the future. The review of counterpopulation focuses on two main elements. I have heard our rapporteur Mr Maraveya very rightly and correctly put forward proposals in relation to these two issues, making it clear, that is to say, issues relating to the supposed eight-hour abolition and the adjustment of working time. There have also been such proposals today, such issues. Article 55, however, is clear. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, for those who want to interpret sober and documented the provisions. Eight hours shall not be abolished. I stress it from this step, and my colleagues in their contributions have stressed it. If, after an agreement with the employer and provided that it is a worker's choice and if the latter works two hours longer, the latter will work less hours in the next period. It's clear. And we all live in our workplaces, eight-hour loans, which we fill in as long as we can and we can get rid of in the next few days. It is self-evident, it is a basic need now of prosperity. Settlement of working time is nothing new. It has been in force for many years and has even been integrated into sectoral conventions, such as the sectoral collective agreement for hotel staff. I and Mr Xanthos who live in island and tourist areas know that very well and we know that because they want both workers and professionals and businessmen, namely collective labour contracts that adapt to the previous report. In addition, I would like to point out that the SYRIZA Government has co-signed European Directive 1158/2019, which is ratified in this bill, which is linked to the adjustment of working time. I also note that the opposition is going beyond the fact that a government of centre-rights, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, is the one introducing provisions on the protection of workers, but also new rights. Because in a working space with the transformation which I have mentioned, new obligations are created, but new rights are created, and this bill provides for new rights, it deals with them. I understand the difficult position which may be found by Members of Parliament from various sides, but you know, unfortunately, in the roll-call vote tomorrow, we will have to vote in favour of or vote against beneficial provisions on the above points and regulations such as the following: First, the paternity leave of 14 days. Secondly, the two-month parental leave for both parents, which will be paid for by the OAED. Thirdly, the ban on the dismissal of the father within six months of the child's birth. Fourthly, the introduction of a five-day leave for the worker to stand alongside his relatives who have problems and need help. Fifthly, an extension of the list of cases on the basis of which a dismissal is deemed to be illegal and null and void. Sixthly, the bill also provides for arrangements such as guaranteeing rights for those working with a teleworking regime. We have lived through the pandemic period how fundamental this arrangement is. Seventhly, the equalisation of workers' allowances to those of employees equivalent to wages of up to twelve months. Mrs Ahtsoglou mentioned some overtime. This is the answer: the equilibrium of the allowances of workers equivalent to wages of up to 12 months. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, please just a moment. Eighthly, the measures adopted against violence and harassment of work. Ninth, the favourable arrangements for those who work parents have children up to twelve years old, arrangements which provide for the possibility of teleworking and flexible working hours. Tenthly, the arrangements concerning the introduction of the digital working card, which will reward the actual overtime which has so far remained undeclared and unpaid, while at the same time guaranteeing the time. Ladies and gentlemen, if these are not favourable regulations, what could they be? Madam President, for all the things contained in the bill, there are no reports from colleagues from the Civilian Representation and we will be called tomorrow to take a position on them. Ladies and gentlemen, in my choice, you will allow me to refer to the amendment tabled by the Ministry and to focus on training and conditions for registered for at least four months in the last 12 months in the Unemployment Register in order to participate in a subsidised training programme. This is a positive measure, but we could predict that we might still have a difficult winter and may not work this year and be without income cover for some workers. In the previous leadership of the Ministry of Labour, I tabled a proposal to use resources from the NSRP and this proposal was accepted, as had been accepted by the commander and administration of the OAED, who suggested that he table his proposal to Mr Tsakir, the Ministry of Development, who also saw it positive. This prospect is not to be dismantled, Minister, and I would ask you in a difficult working landscape because of the pandemic we must also provide with skills but also with the possibility of income for those workers who have not covered their backs because of the difficulties that the pandemic has brought. I'll close my speech with what I started. It requires consensus, unanimity and understanding. I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the bill. Madam President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Apostle Panas of the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, every country of the European Union must ensure that its national legislation protects these rights guaranteed by European employment legislation. As European society is developing because of factors such as technological progress, globalisation and ageing populations, labour conditions are evolving and affected. There is no doubt that industrial relations need to be harmonized with the new conditions, and this is the most appropriate moment, since the almost two years of pandemic have shaped a new and informal working framework. We agree that new forms of work may help to achieve the objectives of economic growth and increase employment. However, this transition must be implemented in accordance with the principles of guaranteeing workers' protection and promoting quality at work. We have all witnessed, during the hard-run lockdown period, the exclusion of some teleworkers from the protection of labour law by concluding contracts of independent employment, but which were dependent. At the same time, complaints to circumvent the working hours of teleworkers increased rapidly. We therefore considered that a bill that would secure labour rights was expected and legitimate to happen. However, we have waited for a draft law which would protect working rights from traps not only of flexible work, such as the telework we have known in the previous period. On the contrary, the changes made to this draft law do not add the necessary guarantees, which will guarantee the safety of workers and employers on an equal footing with the question of regulating working time. Labour rights, in the light of this bill, are not respected. And that is not just what we claim to be a Movement of Change, but also a pool of opposition. Yesterday the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament came to the public in confirming what we have already stressed. Firstly, the basic provision of the draft law which provides for the adjustment of working hours, even with a ten-hour working day by means of an individual employer-worker contract, is considered incompatible with labour law. We don't say that, Minister. That's what the House's Scientific Service says. Secondly, Article 59, the heart of the bill defining the possibility of being defined by an individual contract between the employer and the worker for up to ten days for a given period, is not generally considered to be acceptable to labour law as a result of the inequality of the relationship between an employer and a worker. We don't say that, Minister. That's what the House's Scientific Service says. Thirdly, the possibility of offsetting the working hours of a period of time with the fewer hours of work of another corresponding period also has a direct impact on the application of the provisions of the existing legislation on overcoming working time, and also affects labour costs as well as on the remuneration of workers of EUR 600. Minister, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament puts all this in place. It raises a number of objections to the Qualified Opposition by questioning the provision for the adjustment of working time. So how do you ask us to support a bill, which undoubtedly improves the competitiveness of businesses, whose interests you only guarantee, but which is at the expense of workers clearly? We realise that there are no business-free workers, but you must realise that even companies can't stand with tiles workers. Ladies and gentlemen, strengthening development is a concern to all of us. Challenges of solidarity between both the companies and the labour force of the country become an urgent demand on the basis of the present pandemic. However, the freedom one enjoys in the free market, namely the freedom to sell his labour force or to buy the labour force of others, must be delimited and not violated. In fact, the new draft law on the early violation of labour rights abolishes the working time arrangement which is so far laid down by collective agreements and legalises the individual agreements to be concluded on a worker's proposal. Really, let's finally get serious. It is commonly accepted that the authenticity of individual workers' and employer's agreements is questioned precisely because of the latter's dependence on the latter, so this mockery would be a good thing to stop. In conclusion, this draft law elasticises the working hours - by the way of the eighth hour - in unequal individual negotiation, disapproves collective agreements, frees redundancies even further, is consciously dismantling the control mechanisms and weakens the workers' trade union representation and all this without the necessary dialogue and consultation with the International Labour Office, without any evaluation by the Labour Inspectorate. And instead of being upgraded, it needs to be shielded at a time when we have a crisis. This draft law, except for some positive regulations, seems to have no plan to create conditions for decent work and support for healthy entrepreneurship. Finally, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must stop talking about Brain Drain as if it were a natural phenomenon. Brain Drain has cause for creation and are specific economic and political options. There is a reason why young people leave Greece and certainly not because they are happy with the good working environment and the prospects of the country. This bill, Minister, unfortunately I fear that it will drive away from our country and the rest of the trained people, with the result of reducing the productivity of the economy and increasing social inequalities. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has touches on reform policy. The main point I consider to be anachronistic and does not guarantee the worker, but above all does not ensure healthy entrepreneurship. I therefore have to vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Spanakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u225	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the new employment bill opened yesterday in plenary yesterday, a bill that takes us from yesterday and takes us to tomorrow, which has taken us since 1982 and takes us to 2021 and speaks in future terms. And finally, in this Chamber, make it clear where you agree and where you disagree. Why do you disagree with about 10 percent of the articles and have been eaten for weeks to jeopardize, muddler, and say what you want to the Greek people through the media. For many weeks before the bill was filed in the House, before it was even published, a drunken disinformation on the part of the Antipolitics in all media had started. A misinformation to workers causing disturbance, insecurity, anxiety at a time when workers have experienced increased pressure, anxiety, loss, radical changes due to the health crisis. And what does Opposition do? He's still in danger. It distributes eight hours supposedly and overtime payment on the day off. The "responsible" Opportunism calls for strikes that are not aimed at any today's worker and in addition to the endless suffering that creates thousands of citizens, they also put public health at a new risk. Is that your concern for the workers? Reopening of economic activity? A few days ago here, in the same Chamber, in a discussion and vote of the bill that was first enacting a framework of operation for teleworking in the public sector, what did you do? You were talking about today's bill. Are you going to talk today about teleworking, because the lies we tried to spend a week ago were shot down? Fortunately - or sadly for some - workers have perception and live in the real world. They know their needs, rights and interests and certainly do not need protectors. The workers and citizens of the country have a voice, a expression of constructiveness and suggestions, which are not the case for the Vice-Presidents who are only shouting to be heard. But where are your suggestions? Dispute is a good thing in dialogue, which is what we want. But where are your suggestions? There's a large amount of protesting because they're unsettling. They react to any change. They can't and don't want to keep up with developments. They do not want equality, because they will lose their voice, their war, their achievements. So let us go to the provisions of the much-discussed draft law. Firstly, the anti-violence measures and the harassment at work. Greece immediately ratifys the Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation and move on to the next step, introducing a series of new measures and regulations which extend the existing protection and set a comprehensive and modern framework to prevent, combat and deal with behaviours of violence and harassment at work. Secondly, the safety and health measures at work. In this context Greece ratifys the Convention 187 of the International Labour Organisation to promote safety and health at work and we also bring a number of regulations such as the National Health and Safety Programme and the establishment of cooperation between the Ministry of Labour, Labour Inspectorate and the Greek Institute for Health and Safety of Work. Thirdly, the modernisation and upgrading of the Labour Inspectorate, which becomes an Independent Authority. This puts an end to the possibility of possible political intervention. Thus, the Labour Inspectorate leaves control of the respective Minister. It operates independently, transparently and solely in the interests of the worker. Will you also vote against these provisions, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? May I remind you that the Independent Public Revenue Authority was established by Law No.4389/2016 and started its operation on 1-1-2017? Fourthly, new leave for both parents, extension of parental leave and adoption, seven days' leave for assisted reproduction, and in the private sector, is all set up for the first time and are important arrangements for young parents. They contribute greatly to the balance between family and working life. However, on this point, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to table a proposal with which all the groups will agree. Because yesterday was the World Volunteer Day, the proposal is the donation of the donor and those who participate in the blood banks and trade unions from two days to three days. I table this as a proposal, because this bill includes specific and very serious permits and is something very important when our country has to increase volunteering, particularly as regards volunteering for blood donations. And I come to the chapter on trade unions, which is probably the real reason for the reactions. The current regulations introduce transparency in trade unions, trade unions. It ends the irrational privileges, but also the suffering of society. The bill continues to protect trade unions, because this is how it is to be done in all modern states, but some specific institutionalised limits also come in. Votes may also be electronically and from a distance. An obligation is laid down to have guaranteed service staff for critical sectors and services. At the same time, we are also bringing arrangements for further protection of trade and we are extending this right, for example to workers in the collaborative digital platforms. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is a lot of provisions and they are all just as important. In summary, the digital working card will end unpaid and unpaid overtime. So place yourself on the digital working card. Do you agree or disagree? In addition, we have the equalisation of the redundancy allowance for workers with that of employees. It is a regulation that was a time-consuming request that was met with this bill. Further protection against redundancies, the adjustment of working time, the possibility of an additional free day and finally the right to disconnect, because the truth is that the New Democracy Government really respects the working hours and his right to personal time. Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of ideologies and personal experiences and desires, the employment regime has changed. The way and the place we work has changed. As a state we must follow social developments. Work cannot, therefore, be regulated today on terms of the previous century.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u226	And please close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u227	Allow me, Madam President, to close - and thank you very much - the following, because we also have two tax issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u228	Yes, but time has passed, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u229	Madam President, we cannot omit that important amendments for the inclusion of unpaid mortgages in the Register, for measures for seasonal workers in tourism and focus, for the open programme of the Ministry of Labour of the hundreds of thousands of subsidised jobs, for benefits and facilities to foster parents...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Colleague, please don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u231	In conclusion, Madam President - and I thank you very much - I would like to say that we have important provisions for extending the business lease exemption.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u232	Mr Colleague, please very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u233	And I close by saying it's very important, because there's a lot of talk about it, the extension of the discharge...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Colleague, there's no time left for your colleague! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u235	...the agricultural parcels of natural persons for the supplementary ENVIRONMENT and the granting of a reduction of natural persons for 2021. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that all the wings should vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u236	Mr Colleague, the Bureau is commenting on you! I tell you that you are lacking time by your colleagues. Do you understand that? And you ignore me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u237	I cannot say, Madam President, about tax provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u238	Tell them, Mr. Colleague, but the time they give you. Your time is seven minutes and not ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u239	Don't discriminate!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u240	Please! We have another hundred and fifty colleagues. When will they talk? If you're making a misuse of time, I want you to tell me when your other colleagues will talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u241	Don't make a point, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u242	I have to do this, Mr. Colleague, so you can understand it. So please be consistent in our time. There is always a tolerance, but not to take the time a parliamentary representative has. Mr Dermenzopoulou has the floor now from New Democracy and immediately after Mr Triantafylides. Here, Mr. Dermenjopole, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today at the National Representation a draft law on the protection of workers, which in essence regulates and effectively tackles, modern and real workers' problems and lays new foundations in the labour structure. It is undeniable that in a period of global economic crisis in the midst of the pandemic, balances in the workplace have changed. Labour rights have been affected and are generally discriminated against and inconsistent with the rights of workers. So let's see what this bill does. It includes a series of arrangements that restore chronic injustices. It abolishes or revises anachronistic regulations, improves a number of backward practices and adapts the framework of labour legislation to best European practices. The truth is that many times we have to look at the real value of the proposed arrangements. We must understand somewhere that the sterile opposition that is being made without specific counter-proposals only to satisfy a particular party does not bring any positive results and does not mobilise our potential for change, which is what is being called. So let us leave any micro-political and micro-participatory purposes. This bill is a marriage to growth and competitiveness, mainly because it hits black and implied work using the new digital card with the ultimate aim of combating tax evasion and avoiding all kinds of work that is not paid. It will be fully monitored and recorded in the hours of arrival and departure of the worker, his break time, the overrun of legal working hours, the licenses and overtime, all on a digital card, without the employer having the ability to change the components of this card at the appropriate time. It is therefore a useful tool in the worker's hands to safeguard his rights, while helping to reduce bureaucracy. In short, it will be the guarantee that its rights in matters of time, payment and remuneration will be respected. Measures are also adopted in the current draft law to prevent, deal with and combat behaviours of violence and harassment in the public and private sectors. Measures are promoted to ban all forms of violence or harassment in any way. The obligations of the employer relating to prevention and treatment are specified, while the rights of the affected are now regulated, as are the consequences of any such infringement. A decisive measure provided for is the complete prohibition and nullity of the complaint or any way of resolving the legal relationship that acts as a countermeasure to a complaint, testimony or provision of information on an incident of violence or harassment at the workplace. The worker, in other words, will not be afraid to denounce any form of harassment at work at the risk of redundancies. We are one of the first countries to make such arrangements. A separate new independent administrative authority of the Labour Inspectorate is also set up to monitor and implement labour legislation. This is a principle that functions directly and effectively in dealing with any infringements detected in the workplace. It will exercise its powers as an independent and independent body, without being inclined to control the Ministry of Labour. The top priority of today's bill is, of course, the interdependent and harmonious link between working and family life. In what way? The paternity leave, as the previous speakers have said, is being promoted for fourteen days compared with two to date, while the new father is being protected against dismissal for six months. Can anyone seriously argue that it is not particularly important and, above all, humanitarian? Is it not particularly important that the protection of pregnant and working mothers is strengthened and that new flexible rules are promoted for the worker, such as teleworking? These are, therefore, the arrangements by which it is effectively protected and shielded and, in practice, the institution of the family. The broad use of teleworking, as I said before, combined with the acceleration of digital transformation and the strengthening of the digital capabilities of citizens and businesses is directly linked to further productivity growth. This digital transformation of the public sector is a key factor in our country's development. All this should be self-evident for all of us. For all these, of course, who want to improve the productivity and competitiveness of our businesses. So the bill puts the employee as a priority, as it includes a number of regulations that support him directly. The worker must be treated as an equal member. Fixed requests, such as the abolition of discrimination between employees and workers, are met, while their allowances, which were few and poor, are equal to those of officials. We are therefore, in practice, breaking this vicious cycle of inequality in the workplace and adopting measures to support the weak. Your claim, gentlemen, to abolish the eighth is, of course, a funny genius and opposition trick. The eighth was, it is, and will be, regulated, as from now on not only will it be foreseen, but it will be implemented. We are able to ask the employer to work more for a period of time, gaining leave at a time when he chooses, is something that applies abroad and we cannot distort his essence and deprive people of it. In addition, in this draft law, the New Democracy Government puts order and takes measures to ensure transparency in trade unionism. All trade unions will be registered electronically and in detail. The registration of the statutes, members, seat and purpose is necessary. This will strengthen the credibility and representativeness of the trade union movement. The new draft law protects trade unions from redundancies and allows only for a great reason, which the courts will judge. Contrary to what is supported these days by the Opposition falsely, the right to strike is guaranteed, as it is a constitutionally guaranteed right, but also self-evidently guaranteed in this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is taking a big step forward. It follows the policies of the most advanced European countries. It resists voices that systematically deny changes and reforms. It moves forward together, implementing policies for the benefit of citizens by promoting growth, innovation and competitiveness. So against all those who systematically unleash charges without an alternative proposal, the Government of New Democracy responds with works, responds by means of actions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We now have to get away from stereotypes and break this abscess of regression and fearful logic. And we will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u244	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for being consistent with your time. Now Mr Triantafylides has the floor from SYRIZA and I would also ask him to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, another difficult turn in the history that very much restores the saying of the late patriarch of the Criminal Law of the School of Law of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, who said "We must fight the impossible, not to experience the inconceivable." And the impossible that they want and hope with their votes to make our lives incomprehensible is before us. That's what we're experiencing. Of course, Maxismists are attempting with the ambalaz, the wrapping up of the positive provisions of the European directive and of both ILO conventions, as well as the choice of voting time for the bill, to create social automation. The carriers, ADEDY, OLEME, the transport unions, gave you the answer. They didn't pinch the government's provocation to provoke social automation. You are attempting to cause a overwhelming blow to labour conquests. Who? Who? The Government of the bankrupt New Democracy, which owes 342 million to the banks, the Batteries' Party that each year bears 30 million debt to the banks and ultimately to the detriment of the Greek people it pays. This party is doing to all of us and to the Greek people lessons of modernization and progress. They say it's the front of fairness, order, household management, at the same time that they owe the banks, PPC, you know, this "golden boys" company that cuts the power of the unemployed and the closed shops of small and medium-sized enterprises to punish them. But all this arrogance? So much swooping? The New Democracy, with the name of the pupil-purpose as Mithridatis or against others the party with the three-sympathy "Lignadis-Fritthotis-Georgiadis", of its fine children, gives us lessons of ethos, styles and European modernisation. Look who's talking! It is the same New Democracy that with the sudden death, the lost sign of democracy, fired two thousand six hundred employees under an indefinite contract of private law, throwing "black" into ERT! From the "black" to the ERT Samara - Venizelos, to the "black" Mitsotakis - Hatzidakis in 2021. You are marked, unrepentant nostalgics of "Black". You are attempting to immerse the Greek society in the "black" of the work desertification. If Mr Hatzidakis were here - he was not in the committee either - I would like to ask him how he feels made redundant in the public or private sectors. Of course, in order to feel what it feels like to get fired, you have to hire earlier to get that picture, this show, when the fired man feels that the ground is lost from his feet. I'll tell you what the man's point of view is for the workers. He had said as Minister of Development at that time to the Samara - Venizelou government twenty days after "black" to "DI WELT", in the German newspaper, since for his part the Minister responsible did not submit proposals, "We had no choice but to close the station. We had to find two thousand places to be abolished." We're not talking about people, we're talking about positions. I say this to know how they perceive human life, human value and the value of work. SYRIZA and Tsipras opened the ERT and re-employed all redundant workers, all employees. SYRIZA and Tsipras were the ones who found a solution when the "Marinopoulos", the well-known chain of supermarkets, fled abroad to find their "offshore" and sent to the nucleus of unemployment of 12,000 workers. It was they who found a solution not to lose their jobs and not to stay on the road 12 000 private workers, without eight hours, without collective labour contracts, without the protection of the worker, with the encouragement of the Labour Inspectorate, whose executives point out - a very crucial issue - that when a very serious and topical issue arises, on its own, they would like a political solution and not a service, the Minister in Pontius Pilate's logic would be able to throw the ball at the platform and say to you "To resolve the issue of the independence principle". This is a triple cost, and the problem is not solved, and political responsibility is being lost and the credibility of the agency is gradually weakened. That's what you're trying to do. You promised the Greek people new jobs, well paid, before the elections. In my town of Thessaloniki, which is a champion in unemployment especially for young people and women, you spoke of well paid jobs. And what are you telling them now? You say to them: 'You will be paid on the day off'. If this is the front that New Democracy, Mitsotakis and Hatzidakis dream about the lives of the Greeks, I wonder what the back is like. And I come to the last part of my speech and my reference to the national Parliament. You have said, Mr Hatzidakis, that, following the appeals and interventions of SYRIZA MPs, trade unions - at last, a month more than a month after the positive opinion of the Labour Council - you must sign and declare as compulsory the sectoral labour contract for hotel workers, so that they are not paid the wages of the unskilled worker. If he were here, I would once again say to him "You don't know what happens to you, Mr. Hatzidakis". Why am I saying that? I am referring to the branch contract for electricians and I will submit everything to the Minutes. On 18 March, the Federation of Electrologers of Greece signed its sectoral contract. On April 2, three contractor workshop members in Evia carrying out the work of the UN, are losing their lives. On 8 April, in a letter sent to you by the Federation of Electrologists, it is urgent that you finally ratify their sectoral convention, so as not to mourn any more victims. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President, if you're kind. On April 14th, I submitted to you a relevant report on the accident at Eretria and the collective contract of work of the Federation of Electricologists, which specifically states "...that we should not mourn other victims", it speaks of black work and refers to the fatal accident, saying "We are soon awaiting your decision". Sixty-five days have passed since the Member submitted his report. Answer you didn't give. And you did not give an answer not only to me, but you did not immediately then give to the Federation of Electricians of Greece either. Two days after their report, and a second accident at Kosanis SA, two more dead contractors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u246	You have to close down, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Madam President. And now I reveal the press release of the Ministry of Labour on May 8, which says that the AACC passed the sectoral electricians contract. Today, how much do we have, Mrs. Syrevella? June 14th. Why haven't you signed the branch contract? Can I tell you why? I'm changing my mind. I apologise to Mr Hatzidakis for telling him he doesn't know what's going on with him. You know very well what happens to you, Mr. Hatzidakis. You're putting your back on the contractors, Mr. Hatzidakis. You are not a Minister of Labour, you are a Minister of Labour. You pay bills playing with people's lives. You turned the Greek government into an oligarchy butler. I'm hanging up. You individual contracts. We're collective agreements. You're off. We're the wages. We're with an APR. You're the one with a so-called APR. At the end of the day, workers decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u248	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to allow this really to happen again. I'll give it to you for a minute. That's the kind of time violation I'll never allow again. Please very much. You ask me for a minute and then we use two and three minutes each. I think that is not right with your colleagues. I've said it many times. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs has the floor, Mr Syregella.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, within the next few minutes I have been given, I would like to answer some questions that have been raised both within the hall and outside the hall. I have heard today that the New Democracy Government is reducing issues of equality, depreciating them. It was something that we had heard and when the General Secretariat was transferred from the Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that horizontal policies will be lost, that the advisory centres, hosting houses, line 15900, will be closed to prevent and combat violence against women. And what finally happened? Not only did they not close - to get into the job enhancement now - but six months before the end of the programme we received an extension for the first time in time, and in this way we also secured the work of network staff and at the same time we ensured that the benefit of not losing a single hour of session, as was the case in the past, that officials and staff of structures have been unpaid for a long time. Strengthen women's work. We started through the advisory centres themselves in cooperation with the OAED. And what did we do? We saw that a large proportion of women who were in these advisory centres were higher and higher education centres and, at the same time, unemployed, who are ahead of OAS programmes so that they can find a much easier job and leave the cycle of violence. At the same time, we launched a study on how this whole network of structures will go into the state budget after the end of 2023 that ends the programme. I heard yesterday from the President of the Police Department that what we are going through in this bill is against the demographic for the country, as if we have not read the measures to support young parents, as if there are no such paternity permits that pass, as if we did not read the ways in which we come to shield against the risk of redundancy for young parents, caregivers, who make use of their rights, the use of facilities. So I will begin with your objections about the measures that are allegedly affecting the institution of the family and the resolution of the demographic. So when someone comes to class with the bad text, does it mean he beats the family? Do we prefer to close our eyes in front of undeclared overtime in front of black labor? Do we prefer the rights of parents, such as special permits, to relate only to those who have childbirth and not to those who have adopted them? We prefer that a woman in the public should be allowed to take the leave to carry out in-house fertilisation - those days that you voted for, nr.4604, which we supported at that time why was it in the right direction - but that is not what the woman in the private sector is entitled to? Can't women in the private sector get this permission? Family support is made not with browsing, not with supposed sensitivities, but with concrete measures supporting the position of women in the labour market, allowing men and women to balance their professional life with family life, protecting them from redundancies related to their obligations as parents. It has already been mentioned by the opposition, by KINAL, that it is other models in the European Union, that we should not have the same model. Of course. We took the European directive and did not incorporate it as it came to us. Where the minimum was, we adapted it to the real needs of both the Greek society and the Greek family. Parenthood leave: ten days, fourteen. Protection against dismissal for a period of six months and for father. Many times we have not seen women go to interview for work - I have dealt with it in the past - and ask, "Do you think about having a family?", "are you thinking about having children?", "have you got a husband or a partner?" and all of this is considered inhibiting factors to recruit women. Now there won't be that problem. Parental leave of four months for each parent with an OAED grant for two months. Right of every parent working for flexible working, teleworking, flexible working hours. These are with individual contracts. This European directive was negotiated by SYRIZA. You signed it. Do you keep a record of what you signed? You negotiated it and where we could take it one step more so that we would not only bring the other models without adapting to the real needs of Greek society. As far as violence and harassment are concerned, he says we should have brought it earlier. How much sooner? We are the eighth world country that brings ratification of 190 together with Recommendation 206. It didn't happen earlier. I remind you that L.4531, which is the Istanbul Convention, was signed in 2011 and became the state law and with the support of ours in 2018. We have brought it immediately to ratify this convention. So let us agree on this because I am unable to understand any voices from the standpoint of counter-population that insist on saying many times that trade unionists, for example, who have either raped their colleagues in general or who have sexual harassment or who mobbing should be out of this. That applies to everyone. There can't be trade unionists or trade unionists out there. In any case, it should apply to all, employers, workers, to all of us, to the entire Greek society. Let's finally agree on something. I'm not going into the process. I hope you will read more because I have heard as far as that there are no rules on prevention and treatment in enterprises under the age of twenty. That's not true. General principles apply to all enterprises from the smallest, from one person to as many people as possible. It's not just for less than twenty. In any case, I come from a party, from a party which has been serving many years since I was in youth, which is folk, and never puts bumps and ideologies when it comes to the progress and the real needs of men and women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u251	Madam President, can I have the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u252	Do you want to ask the Minister a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u253	I'd like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u254	I think you can't do this right now. You've already made several interventions. We need to move on a little bit. If it's for intervention...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u255	Please! Why can't I? Under what Rule of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u256	Under the Rules of Procedure, it is entitled. He is a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u257	I'll tell you right away why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u258	Madam President, can it not take the floor after a minister has been set up? He is a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u259	We're not asking you to do us a favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u260	But then I'll have to take the floor too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u261	All right, you have the floor for two minutes, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Madam President. I mean the following. First of all, the transfer of the General Secretariat of Equality from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of the Interior has not been confirmed in any way because equality issues are not identified and have nothing to do with what is happening and the conditions within the workplace. Alas. There's a family, there's stereotypes. So it was a wrong choice, which has not been confirmed, and I imagine you've already understood it at some point in the next remodeling, in the next restructuring of the government's structure to suggest - because I see you're catalysting your head - to correct it. The second thing I want to say is this. Because you have spoken about women's conditions, I tell you that matters relating to the pay of work, its level, safety within work, working hours, i.e. the core of the provisions currently contained in the bill we are discussing, are those which actually work as a brake to make children, family, relationships, culture, love and everything else. And the third, in relation to the directive. I see a difficult effort from you too, Minister, and from all previous MPs one and a half days now we are told 'we will see what you will do in the roll-call vote'. There is no surprise at all, in the roll-call vote we will support these conventions which otherwise should have come as separate bills and not as a trick to cover the anti-government core of the provisions of this bill. What do you say it again? Don't make a confrontation with something that doesn't exist because it turns out handwriting and I think everyone understands it in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u263	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u264	Yes, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u265	You think equality does not go with the strengthening of women's work, which is one of the five pillars of the European Commission's strategic action plan, while you thought that at the government of SYRIZA you would go along with the Urban and Municipal Situation in the Ministry of Home Affairs, because if you see the FEK of the State Secretary, you will find it. Let me show you the FEK, which I will submit to the Minutes. I read: "A. the responsibilities of the Deputy Minister of Interior shall be the Urban and Municipal Status of the Ministry of Home Affairs.’ [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Maria Sregella, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned FEC, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Department of Stenography and Practice.]] In other words, you think it goes with the Urban and Municipal Status, but it does not go with demographic policy, with the family, as is in other countries of the European Union. Horizontal policies. We have already presented the National Action Plan which will also come out in consultation in the next few years, which has horizontal policies and concrete actions from all the ministries. For the first time, from all ministries. This is the geder mainstreaming, these are the horizontal policies. And they're horizontal policies in practice, they're not in theory. Now, with regard to the European directive, we have told you that we have already gone far ahead, where the European directive allowed us to support both women and young workers and parents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Bogdanos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I was going to start it. Let us not hear about women's rights from a party which urged its members to be quiet and not to speak of harassment from the Venezuelan ambassador. Secondly, if you are cutting some about how someone feels when they're fired, I would remind you of Margaret Thatcher's phrase that the problem with socialism and, in general, with stateism is that they once run out of other people's money and so people get fired. Especially in a country with the vulnerability of the state of state our country has lived. Thirdly, if anyone says a lie in this House, I propose that we agree to pay 100 euros from their parliamentary compensation. Why? Because it is not possible to go up here, ladies and gentlemen, or not to know that it is Monday and to say that it is Tuesday or to do so deliberately in order to dismantle our democracy. So when things are heard like 'paying off the day', which is a good-looking lie, let us all agree in here - because, as I understand it, only some people who are progressive in their pocket are counting at the end - to give 100 euros of our parliamentary compensation if the lie is proven and undeniable. Let's see how this conversation is going to take place from now on. Anyone who loves the truth has no reason to disagree with it. And I'm passing on to the object. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, which we have the honour to discuss here, accepted two kinds of criticism. The first, misinformation - I said before - that overtime will be compensated for by the day off, that it will be abolished in the evening. For a time, and the Civic Anti-Civilization underwent this spermology and adopted it in the context of the attempt to form a political reason, which obviously has no. And it makes no provision for any political power to have to resort to falsehood to opposition and I am sure - I do not stumble - that many SYRIZA colleagues do not feel comfortable with these practices. But anyway, the truth is revealed at the end and it sets out those who are trying to overthrow it and distort it, so it makes no sense for me to remain in this fast-news campaign, which we have seen again and I am sure, unfortunately, that we will see from the standpoint of the Officerial Response, as well as the broader parliamentary representation of the Greek Left. On the other hand, it is very useful to respond with documentation and empathy to the second kind of criticism because it comes, Madam Minister, to the core of our liberal democracy. And what's that? It starts from finding an asymmetry. Employers support those who express - the JRC often says and has a right to it - this criticism is inherently and legally in a position of power vis-à-vis workers. Given this reality, therefore, says this criticism, any policy that strengthens choices strengthens asymmetrically the strong employers against the weak workers. This is also supported by the expressions of this criticism, not unfounded, in practice. Let's see, for example, the reality of black and undeclared work, see the introductory "testing" periods of work that never end up intake, see the gifts paid by the bad employer, the bad employer, and the other demand. So in the face of this reality of exploiting who really believes that greater flexibility in work will indeed be in favour of workers? This is where we need to speak politically, namely with arguments and examples. And the truth is that 80% -90% of the real problems in the labour pool are solved, we liberals at least believe, when the economy is healthy, is strong and growth is sustainable, that is, when there are many good jobs. Why? Because a bad employer will take advantage of you when he knows you have no choice. However, when a worker can at any time claim better working conditions to a competitor, the margins are dramatically narrowed. I said before that the healthy, strong, dynamic economy solves 80% with 90% of the occupational pathogens. But there is a 10% to 20% where strict, undefeated, certain law enforcement is needed. In other words, there is a need for rules of general application, inspection bodies which are not accessible to political influences, which will be accountable to society in terms of the results of their action and which their executives will not be able to apply or apply the laws. There are two conditions, therefore: a healthy economy and a fair and modern regulatory framework which is observable. This is the double targeting of this bill. On the one hand, it modernises the regulatory environment, strengthens the freedom of choice for workers and employers, puts in new technological possibilities that we have seen working in the pandemic and learns lessons from it. On the other hand, however, it strengthens the protection of workers and creates new ones: The digital working card. The creation of the Independent Labour Inspectorate. The new possibilities for settling working time are very important. The introduction of new permits for parents and caregivers. Ensuring the right of disconnection, fundamental in the new era and in the third millennium. The new framework for protection against harassment - here it is - at the workplace. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. All of this shows that the Government of New Democracy and the Lord Mitsotakis does not just legislate to legislate or "close the eye" to someone else, but responsibly and seriously serves the common good. I shall end in a minute, Madam President, because I know that, as you must, you will make a recommendation to me. So this commitment to the common good should be safeguarded. The second, most serious, criticism of this bill does not question the correct logic of the bill, but the State's ability to implement what the State has adopted. That's why we have to be clear. This bill will be judged in practice when some go to violate their provisions with'so I want'. It will be the first time that an employer has undertaken not to pay the wage due for work. It will be judged when an employer tells a worker that "you will take them black and undeclared". Or he will be judged when he says: 'Get back the Christmas present.' Or it will be judged when a working father attempts to close with "so I want" an operation without the strike being declared lawful, as happened. It will be judged the next time we have the same scenes in the port, when illegally and abusively there is a problem and the state is looking at it. It will be judged the first time that chief trade unionists - let us not forget these - and an employer hand - will try to find them under the table with donations for conferences and holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u268	Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u269	I'm closing, Madam President. Those who believe in the rule of law, those who believe in the free economy, those who believe in most of the choices for workers and employers, should be ruthless here. In the end, partial and poor implementation of the law, whether we talk about working, either demonstrations on the streets, pandemic measures, occupations or violence at universities, does not only cancel useful and necessary individual provisions for the development and promotion of the common good, but it cancels the main argument in favour of liberal democracy, namely equality against the law and the impartial service of the common good. Thank you all and everyone for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u270	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. The parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u271	In 1894, in Lavrio, for the first time, the request was made " Eight hours of work, eight hours of rest and eight hours for what we want". That's exactly the motto. Law 2269 1920 established eight-hour work in our country, incorporating the 1919 International Labour Office decision. They had preceded hard and bloody struggles, ladies and gentlemen, when your ancestors put your ancestors and the class that had power and shot in the crowd and murdered workers. That's what happened. They had been ahead of the ten days that shocked the world, which Reed writes: The great October Socialist Revolution, which is today the nightmare of workers' exploitation. It does not go away, the ice has broken, and the next day the "frozen" will dismantle the "people". It's been a hundred years. The New Democracy reiterates once again that socio-economic conditions have changed. Changed? They did change. What changed for economic conditions? Huge development of science, technology, labour productivity took off, the wealth produced is unbelievable and the workers produce it. Turn around and tell us: Who makes all this? Your phones, laptops, whatever you got? Who makes these? Employees make them. Capitalists sit down and collect and steal the workers' sweat. Mr. Mitsotakis was saying - and others whisper it - that eight hours are now outdated. We agree that it is obsolete after it was introduced a hundred years ago. With this growth in the seven-hour period, at least, thirty-five hours as a fixed working time is the new one and the request? It is. The brave increases with the infamous wealth produced and going to the pockets of a few are the new or is the hunger at 500 and 350 euros at work from morning to night? Is the coverage of public and free of social needs, education, health, sport, culture, or is it not what should be done? Are these progress for humanity or regression? So here the roles are reversed. That is what we support. Is that a regression? And what's front? Dozen-hour? What's front? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't tell us that now and I'm starting now. Don't humiliate yourself, or I'll say very heavy things. That's what the JRC supports. That's what people want, whether they say it or think about it, regardless of what they vote and why they don't bow to do it. Who really stops it? Why not all of this, since there is this unblemished wealth and everything I said before? Those who rob the wealth they produce from the workers prevent them. The parasites of society. Those who, in the world as a whole, are 10% natural persons, are a small minority, vampires, 'zombies', who literally suck what workers produce. But, financially 10% owns 70% of world GDP, the world wealth produced by workers. By analogy, Greece. That's capitalism with numbers. So they dictated your bill, which has a history of time. White Paper. Long live the PASOK! Long live New Democracy! "Black," it was a punk. Neither "black" nor "white" SYRIZA. And employers also helps workers. Only the European Union's Industrial Trade Association wrote it. Second. ‘Frankenstein’ 88 and ‘Serka report’, which breaks out from progress. Amazing! They were voted outside the JRC or stood with the white one. Title: 'Administration of working time'. Nice, huh? What means "setting working time"? It means abolishing fixed working time, i.e. abolishing fixed daily rest periods. Doesn't that mean the flexibility you're saying? That "forgot the fixed hours, forget what you knew, now on the balance from morning to night." What else does that monster say? Up to thirteen hours of work, up to seventy - eight hours a week, twelve consecutive days without rest. Is that progress? Aren't you ashamed? What kind of humiliation is that? Seventy-eight hours? Go and work for you. We'll call you once and we'll get you into "LARCO" to work for a week of seventy-eight hours. Half of you will die just of what you breathe and of what you see. Go work on ships, where oxygen is in the third hold, get on to do good on the seventh floor and work seventy-eight hours a week to see what good you're having! This is the progress of the capitalism of the New Democracy and others who support the system. Where's Bogdan? Is he gone?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u272	Here!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u273	Yes, sir. Let's think, break isn't a working time. Mr. Hatzidakis is gone. The Undersecretary is here. Is that correct or not, that it is not? Does the bill say so or not? Tell me now. Answer me. You don't? Oh, no! Where's Bogdan to give me the hundred?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u274	Here!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u275	I read Article 56: 'When the working time exceeds...' - and so on - 'This break does not constitute working time and is not allowed to be granted on a continuous basis at the beginning or end of the day', from a quarter to thirty minutes. Take it. The Minister says I'm lying. Tell her to take out the hundred bucks to cut a coupon for the JRC, since you're putting that kind of stuff in it. I'm saying it so you know what you're saying, because you haven't read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u276	Two coupons.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u277	Yeah, if it's fifty-two, but we got the hundred. Mostly it's a five-eyed, of course. We don't have any other sources. So they wrote it. This directive is a monster. It's a return to 1900. And that is what you say 'Adaptation to the best practices of the European Union', all of you except the JRC. Aren't you embarrassed? Best practices! Best practices to work from sun to sun? In fact, the outcome of hypocrisy is that the worker is asking for it. What do you say now? Where do you live? Does the worker ask the worker to work 12 hours to get four days off, not to pay overtime? And, you know, it's really in 1900. What does a municipal song say at that time? He says, "Oh, my Lord, because you're too late to go to reign, you're sprouted by the work, you're cursed by the plain." So you're the one with all the work. Don't look where it doesn't look. Besides, it looks in polling. This is progress! That's what capitalism wants today. That's your system. More work, extermination of workers, less pay. Why? To increase profits. Because the average profit rate falls because there is a crisis. Because to invest they want big profits. And to make big profits they want workers with smaller wages. Because the profits don't come out of the machines. Take them and eat them! Is he working a machine without a worker? The robot doesn't work either, because if it breaks, someone has to fix it. That's why they bring this monster to ensure greater profits. And you come here and tell us: 'We do not take out the eight'. Who are you working for? You say to workers 'we do not abolish eight hours'. To industrialists and others, you say, 'we hold the tenth hour'. We're probably going to make a financial expedition today! What do you think? You're saying that from the tenth hour he's paid for two hours. He's paid. But how does he get paid? Like overtime or part of the salary? It's like part of the salary. How much does the employer pay? I'll tell you quite simply. Means, not to say much, over 150 euros a month is stealing. Five hundred employees, a thousand employees, multiply to see how much he steals. Of course, no more than anything you knew. Sunday's end. You make Christians. You guys made big crosses. You guys go out on TV with five pictures from behind. Go to the churches and bring the TV. What's Sunday? Is it not an artery with Christianity? So what is it? Thirty-two SYRIZA and thirty-five more branches, i.e. almost all, on Sundays. You're good Christians. Go to the churches and tell them. It's not a Christian matter, of course. I am talking about the hypocrisy of this party, but also of others. You're saying okay in ten hours, but... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I take it all, Madam President, secondarys, teratology and so on. You say when the worker asks for it, he can individually, with an individual contract of employment, discuss it with the employer or his lads. That's great! Both of them. Same force! And the employer and the only worker! I'll call it metaphorically. There is a negotiation - on the contrary - of the elephant with the mouse alone. Of course, if thousands of mice gather, they'll make him the elephant skeleton in half a day. Workers aren't mice. Such an equivalency? Well, who do you say that to? Where do you live? In your villas? Where do you live? Have you been to a factory? Have you seen what's going on, what's going on with the blackmail, what's going on with the unwinding process, with millions of unemployed outside and you blowing the sails? Irrespective of this, we're telling you one more thing. Well, is it possible for a man to work twelve and thirteen hours and then fifteen twenty days later to take four days off? What's he gonna do with it? He's spit it out, so I can just say it! Do you know what it means to thirteen hours and twelve, plus two hours go and come on, if you're in a factory? What family! What children! What are you talking about? They won't even see them on the day off because they'll keep running the doctors. A survey was published by the World Health Organisation. Your channels were typographically called, and they wiped it out of the eye. What's he saying? Research before the pandemic in developed countries: "Seven hundred and forty-five thousand early deaths are caused by overworking with basic causes of heart problems and brains, because they worked over fifty-five hours." Now you'll take them to seventy-eight. He says: “30% higher chance of a stroke and 17% more than a heart attack.” You're sending them to death. Unless you want customers, some who are also doctors and are not ashamed to say it's a good 12 hours time. Second parameter. Let us say that the worker says 'no, I don't want to, I won't make an individual contract'. He's licking him, of course, blackmailing him. And he's blackmailing him even if he agrees. Why? Because he will say "the night off will take it when I tell you, not when you want it." Isn't that right? That's it! Not to say more. If that's a lie, write down Mr. Bogdan's hundreds! So what are you doing? Individual contracts are a big key. You're taking care of the worker. They used to say "a stick breaks, but when there are many together you can't bend them." That's what you want to do. Who's he serving, the worker or the employer? And we're talking about big employers. The answer is given. Third parameter. Empty dismissal time and redundancies. First, it was two months the test time. Yeah. Now it's been a year. Hooray! Eleventh month, shot! He's kicking him out and taking others the next day, and it won't have any effect. Eleven months of trial, you understand what it means. He's squeezing him off in the 11th month. He's kicking him out. Dismissals. This is where you defend workers! He's firing a worker. How's the worker? What does he have to do? He's going to the courts to pay! He goes to court and pays. Who has the burden of proof? The worker. Aren't you embarrassed? And you're telling me that now you're defending the workers? Will the worker go with the EUR 600 and 700 to pay his head's hair to prove whether the company is strong or not and whether he needs it? Because that's where you're going. Is he going to get all the balance sheets? Will he do research to say that "do the business and the world get fired?" But here's not enough. Because you say'may also have positive decisions for the worker'. Where are you going next? You say: "Even if the court decides that he is recruited, the employer may give him something more and not hire him." And then you tell us about justice and why we apply the laws! One of you? We're two hundred, because we're right. You make a law to cancel the court's ruling. That's what you're doing. And you're blackmailing a dismissal in order to run a life in court if, apart from cutting off his late hour and more, he's going to accept a compromise and not hire him again. Is that true or not? Is it? It is. You're not answering. Mr. Bogdano, is that true or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u278	I wasn't watching you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u279	What to watch? Who's this supposed to serve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u280	Lie to tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u281	Is the worker or the employer serving? Because you're saying you're the working party. Fourth and medicament: What's the problem now? The force is the trade union movement, the union, because that's where the workers are. There's nothing else. So what are we gonna do? Drawing strategy, evil. But it's not the working movement today, and we're not. So what do you think? First, electronic record. Mr Russopoulos also said - and I am sorry, why are they generally one of the most moderate - but what are you afraid of? We're not afraid of it. I ask Mr. Brutsi: Good, electronic. Will it be public? Yeah, he says. Since it's in "ERGAN", everyone can find it. Will the employer have everything in front of him, yes or no? Who's from where he is, what problems he's having, one thing, the other. Some people might know it. We don't doubt it, because the mobs are many, and the employers are not Charlie's angel or anything else. Therefore, a file on all employees in general. Well, isn't all this evidence in the first place today? Employers can't get them. There's got to be a reason. Why are you getting them in an electronic record? Just to deliver them to the employer. Second, strike. Yes, sir. For parties that govern not less than 50%, but less than 40%, what did SYRIZA bring? He brought "50%+1" to go for a strike, and you go out and rule Greece with 40%, with 35%. Why don't you put '50%+1'? Why are you doing this? In order not to be able to achieve '50%+1'. Because you know, to collect the workers at factories, etc., who are on different shifts, who stay on one side to the other, it's not easy. But where do you from factories know? From factories, you know, not from factories. Is it or isn't it? It is. But isn't that enough for you, not if you're with factories, but, if that's the case, can they be gathered from the Oinofytas where they work, from Thebes, from Livadia, from Athens, from Piraeus or anywhere else? How would you know that? We're talking about gathering to the convention. Let's go down. You'll hear them. Don't be in a hurry. But are you saying, "Bash, they're gathering?" So what are we gonna do? Electronic voting. What are you talking about? That we're licking our finger? Will the other man sit down, vote for the strike and for the administration of the union from Athens, from my village, anywhere else with the click? And where do we know if the employer's office is voting? And where do we know if he votes from the director's office? Does anyone know that? Oh, no. But that's not all. This is essential and even noted by the Scientific Committee. What is essential is that you want to isolate the workers from the democracy that you are singing and inclined to all falls. To gather at the convention, to say opinions, to conflict opinions, to make a compromise, to end up together. That means human, collective, society. You don't want to. You want everyone isolated so that the wolf can eat him more easily, because when many, it can't. So that's what you're doing. Is that enough? Oh, it's not enough. You've been undone: Disclosure it in time. Really? When a surprise occurs, three workers are killed - beatings of wood - many are killed and they come down to strike immediately, they have to make it known? If he makes a job stop, why don't there be no insurance measures, doesn't the union have the right? Who has the right in time? You say that to prepare the employer and to be able to do the work and the state and everyone else. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let's go further. That's not good enough either. You're talking about a 33% security staff. You know what they told us? That if the law comes into force, they'll be more on the shift than they are every day and that's a fact. In other words, you want a strike without a strike. Do you want a bracelet, too? Listen, this isn't Japan. Here it is Greece and it carries blood too long to have conquests. You think you're gonna do the robot workers with no will? You're out of sight. There's more. If, he says, you go out and talk to the dunk or if you share the notices or if you say "colleagues, do not participate, because we have these problems and united ones, etc.", a lawsuit. Psychological violence. You don't go to the... Psychological violence? What employers do, is the monsters every day not psychological violence? What is it? Do you have any measure on this, that any employer who exercises psychological violence on the workers will not strike, is convicted... Do you have one? Oh, no. Who are you serving? The interests of the employer, not to say much more. What is it, then...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u282	Mr. Comrade, you need to close down slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u283	I shall conclude, Madam President. Therefore, all your reasoning with arguments falls apart. You are being legislated for the job and not for the small one, because the opposite is too small. Legislation on monopolies, businessmen. What's the way out? Now we have the same spectators work. Memorandums by SYRIZA: It is the management of a New Democracy - PASOK, not the requirements of capital at European and global level. With a law and an article we'll tear the memorial. Finally, it happened the other way around. There's a third. Today it is not the requirements of capital, because in the European Union another air has blown, only it is -40 for workers. In America, Biden is a charity, thinking about other things. Capitalism elsewhere is good. It's now Mitsotakis and the New Democracy. Of course, it's the Mitsotakis and the New Democracy. Isn't the same everywhere? Why is the system acquitted? To tell the world that management can be better, which has proved and collapsed worldwide.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u284	Mr. Paphie, you need to close it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u285	Wait, why is he...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u286	I gave you teratology, and I gave you tetartology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u287	In Portugal and Spain all the left-wing governments will follow Mr Hatzidakis, who spoke forty-five minutes. I'll talk less.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u288	Don't embarrass me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u289	I'll be done in three minutes. I'll say it a little quick, because that's what hurts. So, let's see what happens in Spain and Portugal, where are the left-wing'monkey' governments? Aren't they? The same thing the government's doing here? You'll do the same. You proved that, why? Let's see. The twelfth hour of the New Democracy is rival - it is indeed - while the 12-hour of SYRIZA to doctors is not, it is charitable. Isn't that right? Yes, sir. Up to twelve days on, which the 2003 Monster Directive says is and is indeed murderous for workers, while the nine consecutive days on the train drivers in OSE are not. It's a socialist measure! It was SYRIZA's. You voted for it. Shall we go further? The thirty-two Sundays that you have instituted are not bad, they are good. Now that they're growing, they're bad. Bad ones, bad ones too. Road open and follow. When you brought the strike "50%+1", you said at first that it was to strengthen the trade union movement, as if we were stupid and we don't know why you brought it. When we turned you into argument, what did you say? Memorandum obligation. When we came out in August, we tabled an amendment to abolish it. Why didn't you remove her? That is what you want to do, and the repetition will be a tragedy for the workers, not to say many more things. Anyway, the way out is a progressive front...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u290	Please don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u291	It's the end of it. Progressive front, all powers. Yes, sir. If we wanted to betray the people, serve capitalism and become gills of the Americans and NATO, which you became, we would be traitors and we would never do so, because we have a hundred years of history, and our mistakes and weaknesses, we did not kneel and worship anyone, and we didn't want a pimp to take us there, if we wanted to make that choice. For example, say this to Mr Varoufakis, who is now saying "the post-capitalism" and a few mysteries to acquit capitalism itself. The solution is the fight of workers, classic, hard, for today, with the aim of power. And for the rest of you together, you're going back to 1900. Do not forget that in 1900 he brought in 1917. We're not afraid. You tremble and your fear will become a nightmare, because the world will not endure and will win sooner or later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u292	Madam President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u293	What do you want, Mr. Bogdano? He didn't refer to you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u294	He asked me questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u295	He didn't ask you questions to answer. Excuse me very much now, we are not having a debate. Questions are rhetoric, he didn't ask you questions to answer. We're not having a conversation. There's no way I can give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u296	I'll be brief. He asked specific questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u297	There is no way I can give you the floor, Mr Bogdano. We will go to the next speaker, Mr Fotella, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u298	For a minute you will give me the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u299	There's no way, Mr. Comrade. We're not having a conversation. It can't be done, Mr. Comrade. He's asking some rhetorical questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u300	Madam President, you are circumventing the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u301	Please, Mr. Colleague, don't shout. I'm holding the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u302	No, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u303	You're not allowed to talk, it's over. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u304	He gave me three reasons. I would ask the opposition to stand up and to be given the floor by the President. Mr. Fotella, please. Madam President, give me the floor! You're obliged to do this. It's not your pleasure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u305	Mr Colleague, I will explain them calmly so that we do not continue the debate in this way. May I? Would you please allow me a lot, Mr. Colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u306	There is a regulation, Madam President! I'll insist. You cannot make a parliamentary coup!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u307	Well, I won't allow you to do that. The debate is over. Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u308	There is Parliamentary Rules! Three reports have been made, you have to give me the floor. What don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u310	How can I start like this, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u311	Please, you can. Mr. Bogdano, I will not give you the floor! We're not opening a debate, Mr. Colleague, you know that. Call as much as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u312	You will give me the floor, as you must do! You cannot violate the Rules of Procedure from the position of the President-in-Office. It is my right under the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and it is your obligation to honour this right of MP I of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u313	Mr. Bogdano, you've heard. I think your objections have been recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u314	Mr. Colleague, do not use the cameras to create a subject to create impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u315	What impressions? Obligation!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u316	No, I don't have to. Listen to me, and be quiet. Be quiet and listen to the president. President of the Chamber. Whenever a colleague goes up on the Step and talks about any speech does not open a debate within the House, do you understand that? So it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u317	Madam President, the Rules of Procedure refer to a person, a personal speech and I wonder what colleagues are talking about! I, ladies and gentlemen, would defend you and you know that if they didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Bogdano, you objected to it and it was recorded, but the president decides in any case. Right or wrong, it's judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u319	What's the reason you don't give me the reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u320	No reason. We're not opening a debate, Mr. Comrade. You're stalling the process, you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u321	You don't think to give me the floor. Argument yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u322	You are deliberately delaying the process and afflicting your colleague in Stepa, do you understand that? I'm not going to give you the floor, it's my decision. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u323	I am a Member of a democracy based on rules, Madam President. You won't destroy them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u324	Mr. Bogdano, no matter how much you yell, you won't take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u325	Mr Bogdano, there is also a procedure for circumvention if you think that a right is being violated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Fotella, you are due, as I would...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u327	Please, Mr. Bogdano! With what you're doing right now, you won't take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u328	There have been three denominations! I am entitled to the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u329	Do you know how many people the previous speaker referred to in this Chamber? Listen to me, please, too! The previous speaker spoke almost throughout the Chamber. Would everyone take the floor to talk? What are you talking about? Why are you creating this problem in the Chamber, Mr Bogdano, can you tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u330	Open the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u331	I know the Rules of Procedure better than you do! Well, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u332	Read the article and give me the floor, Madam President! I'm entitled to take the floor. You're frustrated when you don't give him to me! I would defend the opposition if it were in my place!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u333	Is that my fault? Now it seems to be my fault, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u334	You, Mr. Firela, may give up your rights. I will not resign, I have been voted for twenty-five thousand people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u335	Let us move on to the next speaker!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u336	That's what I want Mr. Fotillas to talk to if Mr. Bogdanos stops shouting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u337	Because you're a woman, I insist on it. This whole story is because the President-in-Office is a woman!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u338	What do you think, Mrs. Fotio? What kind of fantasy is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u339	Okay, Mrs. Fotio, I don't think this has anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u340	The debate is over. Mr. Fotella, please start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u341	I will not stop claiming what I am entitled to!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u342	I shall therefore make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Economic restoration of concessional airports due to the consequences of the COVID Pandemic -19 for 2020’. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u343	You have an obligation to give me the floor, according to the letter and the spirit of the Rules of Procedure of the Greek Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u344	Can I get started? Mr. Bogdano, your request has been heard and the President will decide. We can't override that. She'll decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u345	I won't stop until you give me thirty seconds!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u346	Come on, Mr. Firela, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u347	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us comes after nearly half a century to reform, modernise and, above all, harmonize Greek labour legislation with that of the previous European states. This bill comes to meet the new needs of today, the modern digital reality and the labour market of the twenty-first century. The Law of the Ministry of Labour is another reform initiative by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis for the benefit of Greek society. However, the Opposition and its extreme ideological conservation urge us to withdraw the bill that is currently being voted on, listing such designations as "structural", "laboratory anomalies", "laboratory middle ages". And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, do you condemn a bill which in two-thirds concerns the ratification of international conventions and the incorporation of a European directive? I have heard Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou say that we are using international conventions as a front. Listen, listen! SYRIZA colleagues view our international obligations and our compliance with them as a front! You demand the ratification of a most important convention, such as the Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation to eliminate violence and harassment at work. The Government of New Democracy, on the other hand, ratifys the 190 Convention and, at a time enough earlier than that which the directive itself lays down as a deadline for its incorporation in August 2022, because the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis devours the needs of society and displays extremely reflexively in the 'Me Too' movement and in the public complaints of all victims of powerless violence in their workplace. At the same time, with this draft law, we are dealing with time-consuming and unresolved problems of working parents. We are introducing new parental leave, such as a 14-day paternity leave with acceptance, and for the first time we are guaranteeing the protection of a new father against dismissal for six months. On the basis of gender equality, the new regulation also restricts women's inclination. Protection against redundancies is not only extended to young fathers, but is expanded much more and extended in any case, but also to the pursuit of any right on the part of a worker. After so many years, we turn the case law of the courts into law. And now we're going to lies, inaccurate, parafiscality, and dangerous ravines about the infamous eight-hour abolition. Is the eighth abolished? Clearly not. Not only will it not be abolished, but it will also be applied substantially with the new digital working card that we import. In fact, the eighth hour is guaranteed in all the countries of the European Union and is not meant to be abolished in any Member State. Colleagues of counter-population should be aware of this, rather than engaged in a fight for disinformation and disorientation of society. So what exactly is it with the time arrangement? The resolution of working time is a European institution which has been in place for several decades both in Europe and in Greece. It does not increase the total working time of the worker, as is the case with overtime, but it enables the worker to concentrate their work in fewer days. He may, in other words, adjust his work at the request of himself according to his or her personal or family needs and obligations. In this way, for example, he will be able to work a little longer, Monday to Thursday and Friday not to work, but to get paid and see more his family or study, for example, to attend a postgraduate, keeping in any case the inviolability of a maximum of five days or forty hours a week. Is this the flexibility of anti-gaut regulation? Of course it isn't. Is it happening today? It's happening. Did it happen in your days? It happened in many large businesses. So what do you want? Do you want to be able to organise and facilitate their lives only those who work in large trade unions and the other thousands of workers working in small or medium-sized enterprises who do not have trade unions do not have the same chance? We say the same right for all workers to have it, regardless of their trade union activities. Now we're going to the overtime institution. In this case, and only in this case is the worker working over 40 hours a week, at the same time collecting more money. With this bill, the overtime envisaged is one hundred and fifty hours a year, just as the average European term is. In return for limiting time due to overtime, there is a higher pay rate, because overtime will be paid 40% more, yes, with more money, not with a little off-take as some are falsely spreading. In addition, by digital recording of working time overtime overtime will be checked and paid out as a whole. And I'm wondering again, is the digital card an antique measure? Obviously not. The digital working card is a pioneering and modern tool that will ensure accurate recording and compensation for all overtime workers. Plus, the other ones are our black-work gun. At the same time, a powerful weapon to all violations of labour law is the independent authority that we recommend, the Labour Inspectorate. The Labour Inspectorate will enjoy functional independence, administrative and financial autonomy and will not be subject to governmental control or supervision. It will operate in the standards of the AIA, with all guarantees for independent and effective operation. I close, Madam President, by collective labour law. You have accused us of slowing down trade union freedom when we are strengthening the transparency of trade unions by providing for an electronic voting register and a ban on their aid from employers and parties, precisely to strengthen the free and fair functioning of trade unions. In closing, faithful, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning, our programme and our election commitments, we are making progress on all key reforms. We create Greece that we all dream of, the Greece that we deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u348	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now Mr Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u349	Madam President, I would like the floor for Mr Pafile's references. I ask you to speak for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u350	Mr. Colleague, I'll explain this calmly. Mr Pafilis, speaking from the Step of the House today, referred to many and many parties in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u351	No, just me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u352	Listen to me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u353	He only mentioned me. You've already said something that doesn't apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u354	Please, so we can finish the conversation here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u355	Why don't you give me the floor for thirty seconds? I won't start a fight. He asked me three questions, and I want to answer them. Why fight?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u356	For the same questions, Mr Colleague, and some of the charges, he also addressed to SYRIZA, both to Mera25 and to all parties in this House and to KINAL.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u357	Oh, no. It was addressed to me personally, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u358	Listen to me. Here is no room for exchanging conversations between the speaker of the Step and the House underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u359	That is why you have an obligation to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u360	I will not give you the floor and we will go to the next colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u361	Madam President, I shall continue to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u362	Because, in order to read the Rules of Procedure, it is in the President's judgement whether or not he will give you the floor. Come on, Mr. Comrade. The debate is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u363	I've read the whole Rules of Procedure. The President shall be required to give the floor. The Rules of Procedure shall have the word 'right', not the President or the President. The 'rightful' uses the Rules of Procedure. You're not judging that. It's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u364	Come on, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u365	I'll stay here and insist as soon as Mr. Zachariadis is done. I invite you to reconsider and revise, lift off.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u366	Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u367	Thank you. Mr Hatzidakis, is that what you meant by the election 'quality and well-paid jobs'? Are these the ones that you were calling election at 9.00 hours at 13.00 hours, 16.00 hours at 19.00 hours at weekends? Here you establish the tenth hour without additional earnings, you double the cheap overtime, workers lose income. I will give some examples. Working in a supermarket with a salary of EUR 650 today, with two hours overtime, takes an additional EUR 9,36. Tomorrow's gonna get nothing, and that's a pay cut. Builder, with a 60-euro cut today, with two hours overtime, takes an additional EUR 21.6. Tomorrow he won't get anything. That's a pay cut. Working in a full-time hotel with two years of service due to a collective labour contract, it is currently taking EUR 1,008. If it hadn't been for the collective agreement, it would have taken 715 euros. That's a pay cut. Electrician in full-time construction without pre-service due to a sectoral collective labour contract takes 825 euros. If it did not exist, it would take 650 euros and many, many, other examples. This bill is a reduction in wages. What I told you is for an employee. Put them now for ten employees, for a hundred employees, for more workers. That's why we say this bill is an order of the great and the powerful, because they win. In this bill, which is so good for the government, it's on its own. In this bill, which is so good for all the actors who came to speak, it was across the street. Except for BSE. So here's who they're benefiting. The large tourist groups with the underpaid endless overtime, the large deliver networks that will lower labour costs. And something that is of great importance throughout Europe, throughout the West. Have you noticed in statistics when the accidents at work occur? After he's mostly out of time. Overtime. Where there's fatigue. This bill will increase accidents. One more thing. We are saying that we have a great deal of unemployment, the biggest in Europe. Where are the unemployed in this bill, Mr. Chacloglu? It's nowhere. They're invisible. Make it easier for businesses. You're exterminating the worker. There is no prospect of the unemployed. Why would someone hire an unemployed person when he can stretch the existing workers? Remove the APRC and make it an independent authority. We also have an independent authority in the country. How many independent authorities do we need? What do we need independent authorities for? Is the independent authority going to be a referee? The role of the RDP is to protect the worker. So withdraw the government's responsibility from complying with legislation and the protection of workers. A referee. Why a referee? What are you afraid of? Are workers circumventing business rights? Do you remember the election debate on seven days' work? Mr. Mitsotakis then said: "Yes, allowing a woman to work from her home, it's good, it's not bad. It can go against traditional work, eight hours - five days but it's good." That's what you were saying in an election. When an enterprise agrees with the workers on an operational contract - this is not the case, it is abolished - and it goes from five to seven days with the agreement of the workers and with much better pay, that is good. So this is what you come and legislate today. I agree with the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis. Yeah, people change. The fourth industrial revolution is here. The digital age is here. So we can and should work more qualitatively, more efficiently, less and with better pay. Can't you see what's going on in the United States of America? The minimum wage is increased to increase active demand and consumption on the market. Can't you see what happens in Spain with eight hours' work, four days a week? It's a pilot program. That is what the New Democracy colleagues have been saying since this morning. To bring it in, to legislate properly and to see who votes, who does not vote there. Yesterday I was looking to write my speech, I arrived at your election program. So I saw there, and I remembered that you had set before going to government that for every 1% growth there would be a 2% increase in the minimum wage. In December 2020, for 2021, we voted on growth in the budget of 4.9%. Now the European Commission and the various institutes say growth of 3.9%, 3.5%. Let's turn it down. We should take it to 3%. Bring in an increase in the minimum wage of 6%, Mr. Chacloglu. These are your election commitments and not ours. What did we do? We have reduced unemployment by 10%. We have abolished the underpaid wage and increased the minimum wage of 11% and the increase of underdog 22% from EUR 480 and EUR 580 to EUR 650. In 2019, average wages increased by 4.6%. The Labour Inspectorate has been strengthened, unpaid and unpaid work has been reduced. And another thing because we need to talk about this at some point and a little ideologically. What you are doing today did not dare the New Democracy do, nor in the hardest and hardest memorial years. Mrs Syrégla, the Minister, said earlier that she was a liberal and popular party. No, it's not. I criticise the New Democracy from left-wing positions and the wider progressive party. But with what you are voting on today, you are shifting from the liberal space to the neoliberal space. This is an ideological shift. And when the whole world is in the pandemic and the parties on the right go into interventionist models and reunification models, New Democracy goes to thunderstorms. Mr. Hatzidakis says it's the worker's choice to set working time. It's not like that. It is historic and social to say so, but at any rate to the economy of the debate, let us say that it is so. Young workers with the individual contract? Will the worker shape the terms or will the worker sit across from the employer and tell him 'these are the conditions'? Aren't we going to talk about the next generations of workers? [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. What we're doing with the bill is to say what's going to happen to the old people. What about the young people? So you are a government that is irreversible and you manage it all in communication. And work and public health and vaccinations. Do you understand, Minister, what damage has been done since yesterday afternoon in attempting to vaccinate the country? Do you realize how confused the citizens are? That we don't know what's wrong, what's not true, what's scientifically documented, what's superstition? All tarmac, all without a plan, without any consultation. The Minister of Development comes out and says 'compulsory vaccination'. It comes out after the Government spokesperson and gets distances. The vaccine thing comes out yesterday. Are you serious? You're government. You're responsible. You must manage a crisis. You can't all handle them by communicating. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Development and Investment, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Education and Religion, Work and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food Policy, Tourism, State, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Health and Home Affairs and Secretarys to the Prime Minister, Citizens' Protection and Culture and Sport submitted on 15-6-2021 a draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment entitled ‘Simplification of the framework for the exercise of economic activities of the Ministry of Development and Investment, Infrastructure and Transport, Health and Tourism, arrangements for productive activities and other provisions for strengthening development’. Now Mrs Theano Fotio has the floor from SYRIZA. Come on, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Madam President. A moment ago the government tabled an amendment with number 930-63 amending Article 12 of our own Law 4538/2018 on adoption and acceptance. We ask you to withdraw this shameful amendment, Mr President. Cancel the NSA issued on May 26th in the morning. We call on the Prime Minister to intervene because he says he cares about disability, because the assumption of disabled children is undermined by Article 9 of the amendment. In particular, I am explaining. The tolerant allowance is cut after the twenty - six years in the disabled child. That's criminal. So, an autistic child for whom you allegedly have a special program in the Recovery Fund doesn't need to take up the family after the twenty-six of this allowance? What's going on? Is the autistic kid ready for the job market? You embezzle the disabled child and the foster family who takes it by baptizing the disabled allowance, which he receives anyway, as an assumption allowance. I'll explain. With the KHS that we had submitted in June 2019 to the Ministry that we did not have time to issue the take-off allowance was escalating from EUR 325 for children with no disability and from there and for children with 67% disability of EUR 425, up to 80 % disability of EUR 563 and over 80 % of EUR 1063, regardless of their disability allowance. Election took place, you did two years to issue the KYA, turn left - right the State Secretary and says you will give 1,200 euros to disabled children. And what are you doing? You limit the allowance to EUR 325 plus EUR 50 for the disabled. That's 375 euros for the disabled. That's the surcharge, 50 euros. And at the same time, you're releasing the disabled children because you're renamed the disabled allowance, which is taken by the child as a take-off allowance, to show that you're giving them over 50 euros. Please. Please. You have time by tomorrow to withdraw it. It's a great shame what you're doing for the few children, the disabled, who'll take foster families. It's a big shame. The bill that the New Democracy itself is voting for and supports is unconstitutional, anti-democratic, anti-governmental. It makes me very surprised how glad you're coming to support it, because that's the line. And you all say the same thing: "Who in here disagrees with it and with it?", since you know that the whole House disagrees. What's that for? Did they tell you he'd play at dinner channels? You are violating Articles 22, 23 of the Constitution which protect the right to work by collective agreements and not by individual agreements, guaranteeing the right to strike and trade union activity. So this dark world, European and Greek past here comes with this bill, but it will remain in this past. The bill obviously has two parts. The first part, which lately introduces two positive European arrangements of 2019, is annulled by the second part, which is unconstitutional and anti-constitutional and worsening the position of the employees. That's why we're saying they're the first part of the second. Because in Greece, in a labour market which falls dramatically behind the European labour market, the figures are shocking. Collective labour contracts are 14.7%, while in Europe they are 60%. The unemployment rate here is 16%, while in Europe 7.3% and the purchasing power of the minimum wage - which SYRIZA has reached 650 euros and you have been sitting it down since then and do not move - is the fifth lowest in Europe. That is what I would like to say, and please understand that it cannot be in this landscape that Mr Mitsotakis' scroller comes in. It is outrageous for the Minister of Labour to roam around the channels and cry out, saying that SYRIZA does not want to vote against the provisions against violence, harassment at work and the extension of rights to workers, parents and children, because it is allegedly "does not want workers to spend more time with their children." When are their parents really going to take care of their children when you're gone on Sunday holiday that was the only day they saw them anyway? When will they see them? Every day? There, however, those who have full employment will work with the law ten hours instead of eight. Two for free, day off. So they're leaving home at 8:00, and they're coming back at 20:00. And those who work part-time, seasonal? You put the wasted hours so there's no fixed time to see your child again. You've put these days in the sights and women as responsible for birth and demographics. According to New Democracy, the church and private centers of eugenic and in vitro circuits, the working woman who is late to become a mother is responsible for reducing births. Do you not know that in every intake the young woman faces the question "Do you plan to have a child?". Haven't you heard? This is a draft law on the protection of employees rather than work. It delivers the worker naked, deals alone with the employer during his working hours and his pay. That's the individual contract. This means abolishing collective agreements and sectoral agreements. It is the legalization of the fair, the strongest. That's the law of the jungle, and that's why we're telling you. If the employer fails to agree with the worker's proposals, it will lead to unemployment or dismissal. You think if he doesn't agree, he says, "It's okay, come on." When in a country where the proportion of an unemployed person for each two jobs cancels any bargaining power of the worker? Unjust dismissal without justification becomes cheap for the employer. Even if a worker in the courts, who has to pay in his pocket, is justified, and proves that the company can compensate him, he is not reinstated and compensated with a little money. It is a draft law on the protection of employers, because it increases their infringability which is already high. In the four companies controlled by the weakened APR, one is in breach of the employer's obligations. The bill makes it difficult to control because, apart from becoming an independent authority - and so it is not accountable to the Government, to the Ministry of Labour - it must control precisely the infringements. We have a bitter experience of all the thirty-seven independent authorities, mainly because every undertaking infringement should check it twice. One that the worker has no work beyond the extended working hours and one that he has got the right day off. So you're almost impossible to control the infringements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u370	Ladies and gentlemen, you must be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u371	I shall conclude, Madam President, and thank you. The worker doesn't do overtime to get the day off, he's doing 'cause his pay isn't enough. 85% of workers are paid up to a maximum of 1,000 euros. To date, the working mother who gets 1,000 euros - this huge plaque, the huge reward - if she did two hours overtime in excess of eight hours, would be up to 1,200 euros. The bill loses all 200 euros. We are proposing an increase of the minimum wage to EUR 750, three-and-a-half hours with the same wages, guaranteed jobs and wages with collective and sectoral contracts and serious control mechanisms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u372	Thank you very much. Mr Kedicoglou has the floor. I apologise for the change that has taken place. It was my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take this a little differently. Let's start with some definitions of words as the Center for Greek Language has posted them in its digital portal. The "conservative" is the one that preserves tradition, is in favour of safeguarding it in all areas of human activity and has a negative impact on all modernism. It is the backward, reactionary and any party that supports these views is conservative ideology. In the Babiniotis dictionary we also read that "conservative" is the one that does not escape the usual, who does not love or dare the great changes. Contrary to the "progressive" Centre of Greek Language, the Centre of Greek Language states that it is the one placed on the side of progress, development, that tends towards it and seeks it. According to Babiniotis "progressive" he is the one associated with progress, the one who loves progress, and that is why he favours or exploits new ideas and has a favourable attitude to change. So, on the basis of these scientific definitions, the bill under discussion once again proves, perhaps in the most absolute way, that Civic Opposition is the most conservative party, the most conservative representative of regression. Society, as well as the vast majority of workers, in other words those directly concerned, have already been judged, have already been placed. Last proof is the sad image of the recent general strike. The alleged victims of SYRIZA's 'working middle ages', i.e. the private sector workers, shone through their absence in the relevant marches. The'residence' has given fewer workers in the public sector, who are not actually concerned with this draft law. As for participating in the strike, there was even more saddening as it moved into single-digit percentage points. A great victim of this strike, beyond the hundreds of thousands of citizens who were afflicted with their movements, was the trade union movement, as it was shaped in the early years of post-mopulation, that is, almost half a century ago. It proved socially dead, without any connection or connection with our society's priorities, with the real needs of the workers. There is only to serve the interests of a caste of professional trade unionists, a trade union nomenclura, who is only interested in maintaining its prerogatives. It's a shame because the workers must have a healthy trade union movement. I would like to believe that it will be reborn, with greater participation, with a more credible representation, in genuinely expressing the workers. The biggest question, of course, concerns the Civic Opposition. Why did he decide to associate with the workers, adopting their interests? How disfellowshipped is it from social life, from the needs of the times? Why would he be blind? Why is he acting? A leading example of hypocrisy is its reaction to the upgrading of the Labour Inspectorate to an independent authority. Is it possible for the Labour Inspector to remain under the control of the Minister of Labour, the'social roller', as they call Kostis Hatzidakis? Of course, SYRIZA's allergy is known to the independent authorities, perhaps because they refuse to abandon their expressed pursuit to control sometime 'all the joints of power'. Let them not be buffaloed. Greece is and will remain a European democracy, with independent authorities, distinguishing powers. The independent authority of the Labour Inspectorate is an important step forward. An important step forward is the possibility of remote participation in the general assembly meeting. I personally believe that it can help regenerate the trade union movement, strengthen participation, make decisions more representative. Unless you prefer decisions to keep coming out with violence and beating, with chubby. But remember that these practices are the ones that have led the vast majority of workers to avert trade unionism. Has your weakness been clear to the workers, but is it possible to want more protection than pregnant women? Can they even be protected in an embezzlement against a colleague? Don't you realize that people hate that? Do you not realize that citizens hate their hostage when strikes take place in public service? That there should be a minimum guaranteed service? Haven't you learned any of the recent events at the port of Piraeus? Is it possible to insist that a strike declared illegal by a court may immediately be re-approved? What are judicial decisions? Courage paper? And in confirmation of social analgesia, but also of the lack of elementary intelligence that distinguishes the workers, the decision of ADED yesterday to declare a general strike tomorrow, causing the students to engage in the general examinations. After all the children went through with the pandemic, they could catch and strike hostages. Only after the everywhere outcry that existed, but also the judicial appeal of the Minister of Education, were the workers accepted to allow the examinations to be carried out, very late as they were 'bought out'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u374	Wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u375	You're lying...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u376	Is it possible, gentlemen, that you refuse your digital work card? Do you know how many people are waiting for this digital guarantee of their rights, their working hours, their overtime, the arrangement of their working time? Because overtime and working time, as defined in the draft law, are the rights of workers. And because there has been great, and consciousness I believe, distortion, let's look at them a little more thoroughly. First of all, there's not an eight-hour issue. It is enshrined in the European Social Charter, it is an institution enshrined in the European Union. From there on, there are two institutional arrangements, overtime and working time arrangements. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Despite the savage horror that has occurred, unfortunately within Parliament, overtime is not paid off, paid in money, 40% more and only on condition that the workers agree. And the digital working card is, among other things, a guarantee of this payment. Similarly, working time is arranged at the employee's request if he wishes to combine his professional and family life and personal life differently. It's his right. There are many other provisions that I would like to mention: teleworking, the extended protection of dismissal, the exercise of rights, the health and safety of workers, for young people who work as a dealer and courier, for self-employed persons, for parental leave, for mother and father. But, unfortunately, time is not enough. Finally, I would like to say the following. This bill makes a lot of progress in the face of the labour sector. Greece is in line with European data. And to return to the scientific definitions that I mentioned at the outset, this draft law proves that CSR is conservative and backward and that the government is progressive. Points of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Savvas Snowides from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill with great interest. Interesting for others is that they say that this brings us to the working ages, on the other hand we say that this is a necessary harmonisation for Greece tomorrow, Greece II. The new social structures that have emerged in Greece that are coming and where society, economic relations and industrial relations will in no way be the same again as the one we have experienced before the krone, force us to move forward with adjustments to ensure, in addition to all others, that the part of labour relations is ensured. I will not dwell at all on harmonisation with European law, which has been mentioned, nor on the details of the draft law being discussed. What are the major issues that currently concern Greece? It's demographic, so we'll all say yes, it's our move to new technologies, it's the environment and how we'll see tomorrow. In this sense, we see that there are care for the mother in conjunction with a number of other laws that have passed or are imminent in helping in this part with all our powers - and that we must all agree - on care in relation to our demographic issue. The new technologies, too, are here, so the track was voted on by teleworking, this digital working card becomes and we are therefore putting new conditions into working and thinking. So that's absolutely necessary, too. Working forty hours a week is something that is foreseen by all international conditions, but also in Greece. But if anyone wants to settle their time, so that he can do four days of work and work ten hours, then let us give him that right and give it that right. I think the worker can and can have these choices, do the four-day thing. And if we get there, with the good at some point, the four-day being a good practice and 30 hours being done, as I heard from Thanasis Paphie, clearly and clearly, and move on, but we still don't have those possibilities. So when it's time to see that, too. See it as a good practice. We need to see if the worker can really manage better his time. What I would also like to stress is that about 98% of businesses in Greece are either individual, small or very small businesses. They're a lot of people. They are not all what they are saying, namely 'harks', which are all they think about is drinking the blood of the worker. They are themselves self-employed, they have few workers themselves, who have the right to come in good agreement with the employer and the small and small ones. Can the worker's relationship be equal? It's a heterogeneous relationship. Today, with the law that exists, do we not see that there are excesses, infringements and pressures on workers? It's a heterogeneous relationship indeed. That's what he's trying to do with this bill by making work supervision an independent authority. So what? Let us look at it even more with the digital card, with the independent authority, so that this heterogeneous relationship is not so heterogeneous at the expense of the worker. Why will we all have heard - and not look elsewhere - employers forcing them, under the current regime, what we say we will change and go to work medium-terms? Haven't you ever heard that in small restaurants some workers can work fourteen hours a week? Hasn't anyone heard in here any more that the gift people share, standing outside the bank and taking it back? And what did we do about all this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u379	We're abolishing the APRC!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u380	So here I have not heard anything standing, which tells us that they are working well today or that this law is bad. Our difference clearly seems to be in how we check the conditions for workers' rights. So that is what we are trying to achieve. The second is that I have not heard any proposal. How will we better control these relationships and respect for the law? And it is challenging to tell us additional ways that they believe to be possible to include - the Minister is listening - or to see what else we could include in order to keep workers more protected. So I expect to hear you tomorrow. As far as the trade union movement is concerned, I believe in trade unions. I have been a trade unionist and I believe that there is a healthy union. But it is not healthy, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for us to have fifty thousand taxis in Athens and for the thousands to vote and for them to go out of administration, namely to vote for 3%. Why is the world abstractioning the trade union movement? Who led the worker not to participate in the trade union movement, to what will do him good and be provided for? In what circumstances, either in the public or private sectors? So we need to see that something bad's going on there. Let us vote for this particular proposal both distancely and in any way. This will strengthen the trade union movement, so that we can have better representation, have a renewal of the staff serving these great positions, of the trade union and be able to improve conditions and better protect the workers. Of course, within everything, I will recall that in dead political time we see that this government applies laws. We are voting for laws in Parliament, with which we are building the puzzle of Greece tomorrow. We have reduced contributions for both workers and employers. We have custody of the children. We've got a series of legislation, like teleworking, ASA. So we are clearing up the landscape for everyone, who wants to live, who wants to invest, who wants to stand in Greece tomorrow, that we have a stable legal regime, a regime that is completely harmonized in a different society, as it emerged from the coronary. Seeing ahead, targeted and planned, New Democracy made its proposal in the elections and voted so that we could have a better Greece. In this sense, I think we should look at it in a positive way and from there on, life will show. Proposals will be made to see how we can better protect workers and make the situation better. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr. Snowides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u382	Mr President, may I take the floor for thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u383	Wait a minute, Mr. Brutsi. The next speaker is Mr Kokkalis, and immediately thereafter Mr Maximos Sedetakis from New Democracy. In view of the programming, we must now finish the fifteenth cycle, that is to say, until Mr Burnus. Of course we'll continue tomorrow morning. We'll tell you the time for tomorrow morning. Mr. Red, wait a minute. Here, Mr Brutsi, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u384	Thank you first for giving me the floor. Secondly, I would like first of all to apologise to the Bureau and to the other parties. I take the floor only in procedural terms, without wanting to make recommendations to the Chair. An event took place just now in the House. Constantine Bogdanos considered himself affected, in that his name was often mentioned by the rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece and asked for personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u385	The Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u386	The Parliamentary Representative. I believe that in such cases we should show a tolerance to the issues raised by the Members when they think they are affected by staff. And the Bureau must show the appropriate tolerance. I say this in order to better have the debate, better, calmer and everyone feels satisfied that they are taking part in the debate without feeling that they are insulted and do not have the right to reply. I wanted to make this simple reference, Mr President, with all due respect to all the wings of this House. This is not only about the Member of the New Democracy. It concerns all Members of all the parties, when and whenever they think they have been affected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u387	All right, Mr. Brutsi, but let me say this. You raised the matter beforehand. We observe the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure are fully respected with the same principles and equality for all. Since this question has been raised - because I am now informing the previous President of the Council and considering that there was no staff, it should not be brought back now. I would ask that these should not be repeated, because the person concerned is much less missing. That's it. It's over. It had to be decided then. Mr. Cocksucker has the floor. Then Mr Sedetakis will speak and, as I have said, we will finish the fifteenth cycle. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the bill, let me stress and draw attention to the risk of abduction of the vaccination campaign. We all have to assume our responsibilities here, because we are MPs or scientists. Confusion and insecurity prevails in the world, which is why the leaders in particular here, but also in the European Union, must be particularly careful. Ladies and gentlemen, since it started this bill yesterday, we hear from the government and from the Minister himself that they are with society and we are with the workers, that they are with progress and that we are with regression. Do the lawyers, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors not actually express the society scientific at least? You will allow me to stand on the Trojan horse for the abolition of basic rights. Because in the bill there are surely positive provisions. No one's questioning it. But there is a great 'but' that overturns anything positive: individual contracts, written agreement. From a few has been heard and developed from even less the viewpoint of Parliament's Scientific Service, which says? "It should be noted that in the science of labour law the authenticity of individual workers' and employer's agreements is questioned precisely because of their dependence on the latter." The wording of this objection, in my view, does not draw any conclusions. Why does this mean Parliament's Scientific Service and why, according to Labour Law, such written agreements are not acceptable? In the last forty-five years, the legal order in labour law, ladies and gentlemen, has been shaped in a very different way than in civil law. What do I mean? The principle of freedom of contract - one speaker said so - I do not want to refer to names - the principle of equality with regard to the law, what a good thing it sounds! It expresses the principle of freedom of contract this principle of equality with regard to law and the principle of equality. However, the principle of labour protection is not accepted in labour law. The principle of labour protection is not just a measure of leniency for the worker but comes and moves competitively with the principle of freedom of contracts. For what? For it presupposes that both parties are not equal. Provisions in the last thirty years that have been passed and have been intended - and have until tomorrow - to protect rights, have therefore been voted on. Who is the institution of this legal order that has been classified as a social public order? So the state intervenes, intervenes in favor of the weak link. And sincerely with this bill, it would be more honest to say - as the previous speaker said - that we believe in the principle of freedom of contracts and we do not think the two parties are equal. This will substantially open the door to the violation of important rights. We hear from the Communism, from the government to say 'we define it clearly, protect the eighth hour, do not insist, misinform the world, you lie'. The written agreement, which is a written agreement, states that the State leaves the relations of both parties, just as in civil law, which are competitive. In other words, you are being dismantled from any social policy. Get out of any politics with a social sign. You have also done so with the National Health System, you have done so with the possibility of protecting the weak link in the production and sale of agricultural products, namely the farmer. You don't do it now. You come out and you're a spectator in a contract you know in advance that's not equal. I think that for these reasons this bill should not be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u389	Me, too. Mr. Sedetakis has the floor from New Democracy and then Mrs. Kefalidou from the Change Movement. By making an account they are still eighty of the Members who will speak not today, to the end. We therefore want ten hours for colleagues, since the seven-minute period is respected. I would therefore ask that the seven-minute period should be observed, because I am very afraid that tomorrow all our leaders will be able to speak. That is why the request is to be kept in the seven-minute period. One minute more for everyone, it means we need an hour and a half more. So you realise that there will be some twelve to fourteen Members who will not speak. That is why I would ask you to keep the working hours. Mr. Sedetakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u390	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a real reform at work. It is a debate that is taking place at a time when every debate in our country is taking place. This debate should have been made decades ago, agreed on ten simple things relating to work - because so much is up - and we should be discussing the most complex and complex at the moment. How the country will be capable of producing wealth, how citizens will be happy and prosperous how the country will be strong and secure, what the level of democracy and social cohesion will be. Unfortunately, instead of seeing how we are going to start talking about the future, we still recycle the kilowatts of the past, the very distant past, to mix the same ideological food that does not allow our society to grow and progress. Because you can't think it's progressive to tell a modern man how to negotiate terms and hours of work with his employer should take the leave of a union or a working father. You can't think it's progressive to tell a modern man that his pay is not dependent on how useful and productive it is but on how much trade unions, state, state through the famous collective negotiations, which collectively protect the interests of the worker. Is that so? And who says that? However, not those workers who constantly reduce the degree of credibility towards their trade union leaders. It is a post that is questioned daily by life itself but some insist that it be viewed as a sacred record. Well, it's not! Life today gives modern people, active and conscious citizens, the right, the guarantees and the choices to define his own life and not to decide on him without him. So to believe deep that man has value and that power has a worker, yes, it is progressive, that yes, it is democratic, that yes, it is social law. The draft law on the protection of the work we are discussing today is more than just a law that really protects the work. It's a bill of anthropocentric, because it respects man after protecting his dignity as a worker. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed inappropriate for someone to work and suffer and be blackmailed and with unpaid overtime. And it is inhuman and hypocritical trade union leaders, parties, state to see this situation perpetuate and do nothing for too long. And here comes the government to change this regime, to break this vicious circle, and instead of finding support for all those who are being cut for the law of the worker, it finds them against it. Very well, the fact that you are against us, ladies and gentlemen, helps the citizens understand that we are not all the same and we are not the same because we do not tolerate for the citizens the perpetuation of this terrible situation and at last we regulate it. With the law we are going to vote against black labour and undeclared overtime, institutionalising the digital working card. Here too, for us, the key is the digitisation and the possibilities offered by modern technology. And we will be one of the first countries to implement this measure that the OSH will in real time monitor the working hours of the worker and its compliance. This is how the worker is protected in practice, not in words. The right to electronic decoupling is guaranteed, that is, the right of each worker to download rolls, that is to say, to close mobiles and emails, protecting their free time and quality of life. We face sexual harassment, employer arbitrariness and extortion, raising a firewall against the threat of dismissal. Men are entitled to paternity leave. So we do not only recognise their contribution to the family, we do not only balance the roles of the two parents, but with paternity leave we give a strong and resounding response to the anti-incentive for the recruitment of women who are pregnancy. We shield the eighth hour, allowing the worker, not the obligation, to regulate his working hours on the basis of his needs. It may therefore be working for a period of up to two hours above, with a corresponding reduction in working hours other days, so that within six months the average working week is five days per week and eight hours per day. We say no to unpaid overtime. The electronic working card will reveal the real overtime work, which we are increasing from ninety-six hours to the industry and a hundred and twenty to other industries in fifty hours a year. That is the European average, after all. And these overtime will be paid. We restore injustice against workers and put an end to the unacceptable regime that wanted them to be compensated with much less compensation than employees. Ladies and gentlemen, it has a series of predictions of this bill which are indeed a profound reform of the working landscape. But I shall end with another last one, which I consider to be very important. With the introduction of the compulsory registration of trade unions and employers' organisations in the electronic register and by the vote remotely in the trade unions, we are destroying the relationship between the trade unions and employers and we are saving everything that is still being saved from the lost price of the trade unions, which, while they could have a truly constructive role for work, the economy and society, are today completely indifferent to nothing at all, but unreliable. Finally, it is time for the workers to be freed from this latent paternalist embrace, society will be relieved of the suffering caused by irrational decisions being made by trade union leaders and finally, the opportunity and opportunity for the trade union movement to reinvent itself and its role if its future holds one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u391	Thank you. Mrs. Hara Kefalidou has the floor. After Mrs. Kefalidou, Mr. Kouvelas Dimitrios will have the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by wishing the children of the Greeks a success, this year's unsuccessful candidates who are giving their struggle with scarce weapons, which the state has unfortunately deprived them of, and not just the pandemic. These in a few years will be the young people who will be looking for work and the employers then on the basis of today's bill will make them elastic or perhaps worse, they will get to pay the workers so that they can get them into a job and get the famous work experience. And so I come into the Labour Ministry's bill, where arguments on the part of the government can be summarized in the fact that we are heading towards a radical modernisation of labour law and introducing flexibility and standards that have been introduced for many years, in many European countries, have been imposed. And examples: 14-day paternity leave, two-month parental leave, for both parents, paid by OAED, five-day leave, flexible working arrangements for parents of children up to 12 years old, banning father dismissal for six months after the birth of each child. And somehow the government thinks it will expose the opposition, why does it think: 'What will they say to the workers they support?' And with this finding and the roll-call vote on the promoted arrangements, they think they will turn the Civic Opposition. But we, gentlemen of the government, are called KINAL, not SYRIZA. And the Change Movement, the PASOK, does not judge them by means of the measure that they decide to vote either by the number of articles or by how many provisions we vote and how many we vote against, but each on the basis of its specific weight. Indeed, the government brings ten self-evident people - always speaking of a modern state - intolerable changes that in principle do not disturb anyone. You re-establish regulations in society for over a decade, which is forged as novelty and at the same time make an insensitive addition, you put a small "weed". You say: 'It gives the possibility of adjusting working time with individual agreements between the worker and the employer'. And in order to respect the democratic pretexts, you see the free choice of the worker as a precondition. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to make fun of ourselves, among all the other wishful and modernist, this bill attempts to legitimise and therefore to perpetuate bypassing for decades of well-established eight-day work. It is true that no legislative initiative, however ideological it is, is as foolish as it is to try to eliminate the eighth hour straight away. Another topic: the resolution of working time, also the law of the State since 1990. There is also a European directive in force in all the countries of the European Union. SYRIZA, in his friendly tactics, equal to the noise he will confirm his presence, calls on a people's uproar, in an inexpensive political battle, in a war that was not done thirty years ago. What's the matter to this day? It is envisaged that workers, through agreement with the collective agreement of employers and employees, may, in increased employment periods, work two hours more per day, with a corresponding reduction in working hours or additional leave during periods of reduced employment. It's over and out. However, the current government's employment bill actually adds to this the possibility of adjusting working time with individual agreements between employees and employers on the basis of the worker's free choice. Let us all make a small point of the relevant provision in Greek reality. Let us think of a new multitude of unemployed people who are going to look for work and ask him: 'Do you want to work instead for eight hours a day, five days a week, ten hours a day, four days a week, and do this for six to eight months a year?' What do you think, in order to hire this young man, would he respond? That you know, doesn't it match the one I have family planning or my obligations? Is there anyone who believes that in Greece the unemployment rate of 15.8%, of which 34% is for young people, is there a chance that such a dialogue will take place? And somewhere here as you understand it ends every conversation in terms of reality and the philosophical debate about working arrangements of ideal society begins. Now if you believe in the Ministry that you really give this possibility to young people, then things are even more serious, because we are probably out of place and out of time. And I would like to remind you that the last people who ruled the country, thinking that they were elsewhere, cost the country's credibility, together with some millions who were wiped out from our pockets, especially the private sector workers who were drained. They are the same who today restrict their counterpopulation to the friendly sport of vigilant fights with constructed enemies. The aim, we believe, of a modern legislative initiative to regulate the working environment in real terms, must be both to improve the level of protection provided for workers in relation to the outdated institutional framework and to ensure that each undertaking operates soundly. Indeed, it is absurd for any strike mobilisation to paralyse the state. Yes, it is necessary to draw up, update the workers' registers. It is necessary to allow electronic voting to take place in the trade unions because it has more representation, more democracy and major labour issues can be decided. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Yes, the electronic working card has been in place for decades in large companies and is indeed a tool to monitor and respect labour legislation. But when you say that you are giving the worker more flexibility without reducing his income, I would like to tell you that you are saying a great lie and you are doing it a gobbler, and you are doing it fat-cut.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u393	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u394	Why would the employee do the extraordinarily late day off and who owes and does overtime to raise him below the limits of his decent wages that he doesn't get enough to make this month? How can he pay instruction, PPC, supermarket, I.R.? All this, then, needs to be assessed. And I would like to remind you that last Thursday, particularly those who are not in danger of losing their jobs, are not in danger of losing their overtime on Sundays.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u395	Finish it, please. You've been in nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u396	And that must be said for both the government and the trade unions, but also for us all here. The state lays down rules applicable and these rules must serve the whole of the rates, but also the country itself. I fear that today we are spending a historic opportunity of real modernising the working environment, and that will come before it not only the government but also the country itself. Thank you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u397	I, too, thank you, but keep time because it is at the expense of colleagues. Mr Dimitris Kouvelas from New Democracy has the floor and then Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u398	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide from you that by following the Vice-Presidents to speak of 'working galleries', about 'working middle ages', about 'rollers who will scan working rights', I returned a third year back to our student seats when, dear Minister Kostis Hatzidakis, we heard exactly the same rhetoric from the left. Well, aren't you still tired of this same anachronistic narrative? Didn't the candy of your ideological obsessions still melt? Because you know that too, the duration, that is, it's a sign that we're talking about the past, it's something that comes from the past. What if the Communist Party confines itself to a political freezer, you of SYRIZA and of PASOK, ladies and gentlemen, forget that you have ruled Greece? It is clear to us that the bill does not have "opposite". He's got a positive sign. It is charitable, it is charitable and, above all, progressive, adapted to good European practices and modern needs, but also to our country's obligations. First of all, it's a draft common sense law. It sets as a priority the right of all workers and not the workers. Finally, you progressives, however, are and remain the preservative of Greek political life. You are still invoking the laws of the 1980 ’ s as gospel. You who at the time of digitization deny the electronic register of trade unions. You who are putting the privileges of workers above the interests of every worker who find it difficult to go to work this morning even though the metro strike was found illegal, were found to be abusive. In fact, what are you going to tell the workers about a number of provisions that you will be voting against? It's your concern. These rhetorical questions have been raised by colleagues here in the House earlier on in the Step. So what about the provision for the first time that OAED covers parental leave for two months for both father and mother? What about the paternity leave that is first introduced fourteen days after each child is born? What are you going to say about the provisions on measures for all forms of violence, sexual harassment at the workplace, which we incorporate in our national law? What are you going to say about provisions extending the protection of workers in the event of redundancies with six additional reasons? What are you going to say about the provisions that further shield the legitimate overtime - which will be paid for by the worker, perfection and dash - thus hitting the phenomenon of illegal and unpaid overtime? Eventually, you don't want to. It turns out - it has been demonstrated in the debate in the committees in plenary - that every new one, every new one, brings you allergy. You are nourished by the stagnation, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties. For decades the same sterile logic, without realism. You are, after all, older than the old one and you prove it every minute of this debate. On the contrary, we show what aspect, which government is on the way to real progress, to real change, to real reforms, which represent the general interest of all citizens, the government that makes opportunities for the needs that have arisen in these difficult times. Just because we serve the public interest, we believe in a basic principle. There can be no worker without business on the one hand, nor, of course, successful businesses without satisfied workers on the other. We believe in the need for effective regulation of the labour market so that there is increased protection of workers from illegal and abusive employers' behaviour. Indeed, the worker is weaker in this double. So we believe in increased protection, but at the same time additional cover for the personal and family needs of workers, together with the needs of the company. Therefore, rights and obligations must exist for both sides in a way that attempts, but also for workers to feel satisfied. It is unbelievable that you are still criticising the conventions for the elimination of violence and harassment at workplaces that are an international obligation for our country and you signed them as the SYRIZA government. We are also stricter in the framework of redundancies, protecting the worker from arbitrary employers' behaviour, incorporating the recent directive on the balance between occupational and private life by introducing new leave for parents, fathers, mothers who care for disabled people. This will enable workers to adapt better and meet their personal and family obligations. In eight hours a day, forty hours a week are even more shielded, applied and will continue to apply. It's over and out. There's a lot of conversation going on pointlessly. We also reserve the universal payment of overtime for every worker and we shield the right to set working time, which has already been in place for thirty years by the previous PASOK and SYRIZA governments. Why, then, is it neoliberal and anti-democratic? Now he's armored. I have been waiting for at least two regulations that have been calling for all workers to be in favour of: Firstly, the introduction of the digital working card, by which we fight undeclared black work. The worker is paid for as long as he is working. We are putting an end to immunity, and you say 'no'. Secondly, I expected a universal 'yes' to the upgrading and real independence of the Labour Inspectorate. In order to implement any working arrangements, someone must ensure that they are complied with. The APRC, therefore, becomes an independent administrative authority, an audit institution of increased prestige and efficiency, and it will obviously be staffed and equipped with this new authority so that no one can ask questions. And here you progressives say 'no' again. I will conclude by saying that today's legislative initiative is really a first-class opportunity to review the concepts of maintenance and progress. You are still describing the labour market in terms of a previous century, and the sad thing is that you are addressing this rhetoric and the young people, ladies and gentlemen, of whom we all agree that we must create their way back to the country to make use of their good minds and skills.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u399	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u400	I speak with them, and your young people are increasingly turning their backs. We coordinate ourselves with modern reality, and above all with strong social needs. Our political DNA is always inconsistent with waterproofing and ideologies. We want our young people back. We see the future clearly through the present. Once you take off your party glasses, you'll see it too. You can even now. It's never too late for progress. I invite you all, even at the moment, to vote in favour of this draft law. Good luck to all the students who are tested - exams I mean - these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u401	Mr. Athanasios Papadopoulos from SYRIZA, please come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u402	As you know, the processes for the future of Europe began. The parliaments, self-government bodies and active citizens from all European countries are discussing, proposing very serious issues. So far, among these are the issues that concern the social state of the new era, the new social contract that will govern creative employment and integrate skills, scientific knowledge, even the achievements of artificial intelligence, the new cohesion, solidarity, participatory democracy, quality of life that will replace the neoliberal budgetary discipline pact. When the progressive forces in Europe propose a new social contract for decent, well paid work, what exactly will the New Democracy Government propose? The complete dismantling of industrial relations, because, as you say, this is the reality in the labour market, the disgraceful imposition of the individual against collective bargaining, individual negotiations and individual contracts of employment at the place of collective bargaining? Is this your European intervention, Mr Hatzidakis? Who, apart from the extreme monetarists and representatives, of course, will agree at the conference on the future of Europe with the New Democracy's choice of redeployment of working time in individual negotiations of workers with employers and an eight-hour violation of the eighth which is a flagship achievement of working culture after bloody struggles. Already in Finland we have a big step forward in the face of what we need to talk about the future of Europe. They are already discussing - and they can implement - for six hours of work in four days without a reduction in wages, while in Spain, the Sanchez Government with the Minister of Labour of Yolanda Diath takes steps to improve labour relations and has already increased the minimum basic salary to EUR 950. To provide European examples of active intervention in all these issues to the new social contract on creative work. With regard to the settlement of working time in individual contracts, look at the Spanish doctors and then the doctors from many other European countries have appealed to the European Court of Justice for many years now for the exterior conditions of overtime in newspapers leading to the Burn out syndrome, but also for tragic errors, a consequence of fatigue. It was then decided that there would be Community directives on weekend working hours as a ceiling and on favourable arrangements for overtime pay and for large increases in the number of doctors who would be involved in the on-call system and could implement the deadline. Look at a different management of this concept which is an issue at issue: Arrangement. In Britain, it is arranged with individual doctors who go on duty even weekends and call doctors who sign contracts, even from Greece, and go to colleagues only on weekends, enticing them with what they pay. What are many other European countries doing? Setting up, but what kind? With thousands of permanent recruitments, accompanied by a brave increase in pay and enticing the new Greek doctors, who go and serve the health system in these countries. Are we adjusting? Greece has requested an exception at that time, because we knew there must be a transitional period of application. We knew the data. We studied them in the Hospital Doctors Federation. We knew about doctors who have to do on-calls and they're in subordinated departments. There are only three anaesthetics in hospitals, while in many other critical specialties two or three. You know the reality on the islands. You know what the data are, especially in the small islands, where there might be a rural doctor or a military doctor to serve 24-hour coverage needs. And for these data, then, we had intervened and made an agreement, which led to five thousand permanent recruitments. The government had issued a notice of the two thousand after the intervention of the OENGE. Afterwards, the Memorandum Agreements have disappeared and redirected Europe to one to five for recruitment, then one to one, so that we can now talk about new needs. What is the government doing today, Mr Hatzidakis, who is represented by the government today? Is it adapted to the need, after having asked for a further two-year period of application of the Community directives? Is she adjusting? Does it make these recruitments we need, so that the on-call system doesn't have more than a week's work? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. I think that this issue which we are discussing, as well as a great deal of other, leads from now on to simple: they are creating the programming basis for convergence of the progressive forces, all those who see that a neoliberal government cannot lead both Greece and Europe to what we want. We will serve this necessity along with all those who want to do so in practice. Alexis Tsipras has already proposed that, in addition to the labour movement's dynamics, in order to overthrow such anti-government bills, the commitment of the progressive parties is needed to cancel this legislation in practice. So here's a challenge to go to the next day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, too. Mrs Helena Rapt has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by following the opposition to the working bill, one can only see that this is a game of political impression which has nothing to do with the substance of the new regulations. Labour has always been the dear theme of the Left, which, having been declared a self-protector of labour rights, does not miss an opportunity to fish for party benefits and tries it this time. The flag of SYRIZA's reaction is the article on work settlement. But, do you not know, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that this practice has existed in Greece for thirty years, five of which you ruled? If she wasn't that good, why didn't you change her? Why didn't you come out courageously to say that you signed the 2019/1150 Directive, which provides for the set-up of work? And now that we incorporate it into national law, will you vote against what you signed? What the whole of Europe is voting on and they are already applying dozens of countries, do you not want it for the Greek worker? Speak openly to the workers. Does it bother you that we are giving the same possibility not only to children married under the age of eight, but to all workers? Who's the worker, so do you have in mind? Certainly not the modern worker and his needs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing - but no doubt - that the labour bill has bold arrangements that ensure a better working environment. Black work and undeclared overtime are now treated with digital card in conjunction with the audits of the Labour Inspectorate, which is now becoming an independent authority, excluding political intervention. I wonder why you so badly want him to remain under the control of the Ministry? Who does this serve? New permits are granted to parents and caregivers, paternity leave and subsidized leave to both parents by the OAED. Will you say 'no' to this provision too? We have protection for workers from vacant redundancies and, indeed, the grounds for banning redundancies are growing, and redundancies can reach three times what is currently happening. What could that bother you? The permitted overtime is increased and they are all paid with money rather than with a day off, as you misinform workers, and indeed they are paid with a 120% increase instead of 80%. Teleworking, but also the right to disconnect, enters the life of the workers, because this serves modern working conditions. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what's wrong with you? Who can transparency be disturbed by trade unionism? With electronic registers and electronic votes, the risk of manipulation of the trade union movement is avoided, which will now work, as should be done, really protecting workers and claiming for them. The right to strike will now have rules and objectives for government and employers and not for society as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, I have left for the closure of my speech what is of particular value to me in the working bill, and I think that it has not emerged as it deserves, the measures to combat violence and harassment at the workplace, a very frequent social problem. It is not a simple question or a formal provision on the margins of the labour bill that we are discussing. There are dozens of cases where so far they have not had the special treatment that we should have had from our legislative framework. Greece is one of the first countries to ratify the Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation. Harassment is treated as a form of discrimination and now has extended rules of treatment. Violence is added to punishable behaviors. It is not behaviours that are paper exercises, but dozens of women who experience violence and harassment every day at work. The protection framework includes even volunteers, trainees and others. No one's left outside the protection box. Every company with more than 20 people must have a corporate policy to combat violence and harassment. It may be one of the most important provisions of the bill, both in terms of prevention and in terms of treatment. The employer now has a duty to prevent, stop and deal with the incidents of violence and harassment. And obligation means control, what has so far been nowhere. The employer must also take steps to stop any such incident. Since his or her life or health is at stake, even the right of the person concerned to leave work is provided for as long as is necessary. Finally, the new law also comes to ban the dismissal and discrimination of both the complainant and any witness. Moreover, the burden of proof is reversed and has it the one who is denounced. The cycle of violence and sexual harassment has not been closed with complaints in recent months. They're the ones who opened it. Today, in this bill, the government has shown in practice that it will not let this social problem destroy the lives of thousands of workers in all places and occupations. Where there is legislative capacity, there will also be a similar arrangement for less and less incidents. Ladies and gentlemen, the working bill reconciles personal and professional life, gives solutions to the needs of the workers of the 21st century. Workers do not need the political interpretations of the appalling objections in every form of progress to see how dozens of things change in their own interests. They can read the law. In a few days they will be able to benefit from its provisions. There is a choice to see the future and vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Mrs Rapt, especially for keeping time. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA. I shall then give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglu, for a three-minute period. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the content of the bill is linked to the question of how to regulate labour relations that has been set up for many years, it has then been answered and the bill is answered in a concrete way. I'll explain how. Labour law is a conquest of the world of work. At its core lies the contract of employment. Initially it was one of the replacement contracts, like all others, in the context of freedom of trade. The contract of employment was seconded from other civil law replacement contracts, because its object, the provision of work, is interconnected with man himself and cannot be separated from him. In providing work, the worker's labour force comes and is identified as the worker himself who is a man of flesh and bone, but also of personality. Moreover, the worker as the weak side of the work relationship does not negotiate on equal terms with the employer and therefore needs protection. Thus, labour law was born, as autonomous law in relation to civil law, annoying law, gaining and having a significant protectionist dimension. And in its evolution, labour law acquired another extremely important dominant dimension, the collective dimension. Negotiations are carried from individual to collective level so that workers can negotiate with the employer collectively through the trade unions and thus achieve an elementary balance, given the inherent imbalance of power between employers and workers. The neoliberal policies that prevailed mainly in the last 20th century and at the beginning of the 21st century on the basis of the association of forces, social and political policies that have emerged, have attempted and attempted to annul the collective dimension of Labour Law by dismantling the trade union movement, the deterioration of collective labour agreements, in short with complete dismantling, the deregulation of collective labour law. The individual contract of employment thus returns as a dominant factor in the form of and regulates the terms of work and hence the inequality of the two parties in the employment relationship. This is also noted in the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. In this respect, i.e. the incorporation of individual contracts of employment into a dominant shaper of the work relationship, the current bill is also under way. This is a fundamental element of the New Democracy policy. It moves backwards and not towards progress, which, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you constantly call on, since regression is not necessarily linked to the time of introduction, to the time for the adoption of protective labour regulations. This is in your view that, due to the fact that labour rights have been introduced over the years, they must be adapted to the current 'working jungle', i.e. abolished. That's what you're saying. And let us not forget that the Prime Minister himself has described the eight-hour anachronism and ideological obsession, while, Minister and fellow Members, progress is being made with the employers' arbitrage and the "working jungle" you are establishing. Moreover, this is your argument, namely that since there is a 'working jungle' on the market, as realists you institutionalize and therefore legalize it. So the work reality ceases to be illegal, and it becomes legal, with the bogeyman and your bill. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, that's your policy. And even by strengthening the memorandum policies, whose labour law and the position of the world of work have been their main victim, and indeed the provisional Memorandum measures have become permanent, i.e. the crime committed is not instant but lasting, and this is after the country's exit from the memoranda - to remember this, in August 2018 - that is, without any commitments. In addition, after taking over the country's governance, the New Democracy has promoted arrangements that have overturned those established under SYRIZA's rule after the exit of the country from the memoranda: the non-promotion of further increase in lower wages, the abolition of the justified nature of redundancies and co-responsibility, a set of exceptions to the scope of collective labour agreements, the mutilation of the right to unilateral recourse to arbitration, the failure to subject PPC's new entrants and ELTA to the arrangements of business collective labour agreements and labour regulations etc. Thus the Government of New Democracy, with extreme neoliberal perceptions, restores the negotiation of working conditions at individual level by strengthening this transfer and by institutional cancellation - undermining collective autonomy, trade union action and the right to strike. And this despite the pandemic that has even led to liberal and conservative governments revise in part some of their extreme neoliberal views and bring back to sensitive areas such as work and health, state and collective intervention, so that at least in these fields it is not all left to market arbitrary. Ladies and gentlemen, the current bill is a false document, because another is its aim - I have developed it before - and another is its title. Signed 'to protect the work'. Of course you are canceling the protection of the weak side of the contract of employment. But you are also doing one - I would say - political dishonesty. Incorporate into the bill the ratification of two international conventions and the incorporation of a European directive. In this way you are attempting to cover up the anti-social, anti-democratic and authoritarian character of the bill that will result in the institutional enforcement of the "working jungle".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u407	Good. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u408	I shall conclude, Mr President. The bill affects all society, public and private workers, the unemployed as it prevents new recruitment and new entrants in the labour market and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who will be the beneficiaries of limiting the purchasing power of the workers. Ultimately, it condemns the new generation in a future of cheap, flexible work and job precariousness, without rights, leading them to a search for work abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u409	Thank you very much. Mr. Papaliou, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u410	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u411	Yeah, but that's how it's at the expense of your colleagues. We've got to figure it out ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u412	You are destroying the democratic and social acquis of post-population. The necessary incorporation of these international conventions and European directives cannot cover the antisocial nature of the bill, which I repeat institutionalises the enforcement of the labour jungle and restores the regulation of labour relations for many years back. Minister, I am addressing you personally, you said that there can be no businessless workers and that there can be no business with the workers on the tiles. You obviously mean with the workers who have rights, protest, trade, mobilise and strike, in other words exercise their rights. This is unfortunately your perception. You see the rights as far as - very necessary - and their abuse of illegal acts. That's why you're abolishing rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u413	The Parliamentary Representative of the Movement of Change, Mr Kegeroglu, has the floor. Immediately afterwards, Mr Stefanos Gikas will speak from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u414	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole society is talking about labour. People of work, small and micro-enterprises, professionals, everyone understands the government's target to downgrade the worker's position and undermine its ability to negotiate decently. The managers and administrations of large and very large enterprises are aware of this much more, and are waiting for how and how to start its implementation. The bill beyond the positive provisions - which it is unfair to the way in which they came along with the modulation of working time arrangements and other issues - is really about an anachronism that it introduces. It's antisocial and counterproductive. And Greece, in the light of the need for the post-COVID era to exploit the Recovery Fund, the ESRB, all the rich production sources and could have a great advantage with work as a competitive advantage, will be in a more disadvantaged position. Only decent wages and working conditions well under the rules of the social dividend of growth with collective representation as a guarantee, within the framework of a social contract, can give the confidence to move forward on the next day. The Change Movement today sets the need for the green social contract as a priority and considers that we can and should open a serious social dialogue on the crucial issues raised by the fourth industrial revolution that is already running. To make use of the results of scientific research on its impact. Of course, the production of the new wealth is one of the positive results of the fourth industrial revolution, but at the same time it is accompanied by a reduction in employment and new questions are raised. With what policies and what institutions will this extra new wealth be exploited for social benefit? We must consider not the increase but the reduction in working hours and the creation of new jobs not only to cover losses, but to open up paths for the new generation from the social dividend of the new wealth produced by the fourth industrial revolution. This is the debate, and any intentions will not divert it. And I say this because the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group chose Friday, as it had the right, to table a proposal for a law on the financing of parties, the resolution or I do not know how else it is entitled to do so. That was her political right. But he didn't stay there. The positions of many officials today referred to the issue and, of course, the position of the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi. That's called an effort to change the agenda. And while financial centers are justified and the government to change the agenda, I don't know what SYRIZA's purpose is for this effort. But if there are no misinterpretations at all, we will not have the challenge unanswered and, as I have said, the President of this House will not be able to answer them. So let me tell you that the Change Movement does not only dismiss the obligations arising from the outstanding PASOK loans but has taken over them. That is why in the context of the political regime that we have come to the last PASOK elections - a change movement and which, on this basis, we also have the funding from the state, the total amount of State aid directed at PASOK goes towards our debts. This shows and demonstrates our political will in relation to the problem that has been created in the past. SYRIZA's proposal for a law speaks not only of the party's obligation but also of the duty of parliamentarians. We in the Change Movement should tell you that in any case we are participating in the economics of the movement in return for state funding that goes towards loans. But most Members today of the Change Movement have nothing to do with the period when the loans were received.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u415	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u416	Mr President, I need a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u417	You have a remnant, but we'll remove it from your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u418	Did I seriously see the proposal for a law signed by Mrs Xenogiannakopoulos and Mr Raguss? The two secretaries of the PASOK overcompensation period? [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] And says Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou "for my own mistakes of my time and Mr Ragosi will pay Mulkiotis, Panas, Pulas, Frangidis, all those who have nothing to do with that period." Really? Where's your morale, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, personally? Seriously, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u419	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u420	Of course, everyone who got a name with PASOK and then sold it right and left. Everybody.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u421	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u422	Apart from Mr Ragosi and Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, Mr. Kourublis, Mr. Morais, Mr. Jack, Mr. Spirtzis, but also the one who came down from the Stepma, Mr. Papaliou, got a name as Secretary-General to the PASOK government. Really? Would you sign such a proposal? And you're gonna take the floor now, and you're gonna tell us the reason why Poulas will pay and not you? Really, ma'am? Simos Kedicoglou, whom you have recently embraced, gentlemen of SYRIZA, is also accompanied by the debit card. He's escorting the debt that's due to him. Of course, we also have the opposing parties from New Democracy, so that we do not forget ourselves. Chrysochoid and others. But the Economous who left PASOK because he didn't want to vote for memos. And since then, he has voted four to five. He's taken the time and voted four to five. The list is long and I've made it public. Ladies and gentlemen, what citizens expect is a better day. And she cannot come unless we stop retreating politics to the great economic interests and to the purposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u423	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u424	The Change Movement, therefore, will give the struggle for the country, society and the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u425	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u426	Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u427	What's the matter with Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou? After Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u428	Mr. Brutsi, for God's sake. Please respect the Rules of Procedure. I understand Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou. It's personal, and I'll give her the floor. Why are you interfering? I don't understand why you're interfering. He didn't say anything about you personally, Mr. Brutsi. For God's sake. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor for her personal point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u429	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to make two points. Mr. Kegeroglu is used to speaking in a certain way. I will not speak in this way and have never spoken, neither for colleagues nor for former partners. But I want to say two things to restore the truth. The PASOK secretaries, all the PASOK secretaries, including me, have never been responsible for the finances and Mr Kegeroglu knows it. It just creates impressions. He knows that very well. I have nothing to add to that. And I don't even get used to talking negatively about a party that, after all, I served from seventeen years of age. Secondly, I was deleted and left PASOK in 2012. It is particularly timely that we are talking about the labour bill today. I resigned from the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs on European matters because I disagreed with the second memorandum. So I cannot tolerate anyone criticising my political course. I was deleted, I left politics six years ago, I am not a comedian and I went to the government of SYRIZA in 2018 and I was ensnared precisely because I believe that together with SYRIZA and the Progressive Alliance at the moment a hope is being created for the country. I return everything else to Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u430	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u431	Wait a minute. He made a personal placement and gave the necessary clarifications, as he thought. He didn't say anything to affect you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u432	Mr President, I will do a much smaller one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u433	Wait a minute. Everyone won't talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u434	Mr President, I too have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u435	Mr President, thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u436	Wait a minute. Mr. Kegeroglu, he gave an explanation because it was personal. Just tell us what your staff is, and then you will take the floor, as the Rules say, if it is personal. Tell us what it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u437	I will tell you the floor, what I think is good for you to give me the floor. Although I won't need it, Mr. President. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou mentioned that she's returning me. He can't return anything to me, because he doesn't touch me on what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u438	That's not insulting. It pays you back what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u439	Listen, I'll finish. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has consumed all her position on the political side. And he did well. I talked about the moral part. The manager and the secretaries of the period have no moral right - regardless of whether they have responsibility for management, they have in politics - to tell Poula, Mulkiot, Biagi, Frangidis and all others who have nothing to do with this period to pay for their mistakes. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u440	You said it, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u441	Don't raise your finger when you talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u442	Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u443	Please, my colleague. Please! She explained the explanations to Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u444	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u445	Please! Please! Wait a minute, Mr. Brutsi. They are the political positions of each Member. Don't go to another issue. I do not know whether or not there should be a law on these issues for political parties in the country. This is an issue that will concern the next review. Mr. Brutsi, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u446	Mr President, I had taken the floor a moment ago, and I said that I did not like it or want it, nor is it in my political formation to make recommendations to the Chair. I now have to make a recommendation to the Chair. You have done so well and you have given the floor to Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, and I am not saying anything about it, as is Mr Kegeroglu. The Chair, however, must finally be aligned and coordinated. No two yards and two weights. Mr. Bogdanos just two hours ago for a number of corresponding reasons wanted to take the floor, and the Chair didn't give it to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u447	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u448	Please! Please! I do not raise a point to Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u449	Why are you interrupting now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u450	I'm right he gave her the floor! And Mr. Kegeroglu!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u451	Do you have the impression that anyone who yells impresses? It's the arguments it's the one that impresses.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u452	Mr. President! So I make this recommendation to you and through us in the whole Bureau. You need to find a way to coordinate and implement the work of the seat. No two yards and two weights. That is what I wanted to say in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u453	I explained to you, beforehand, that this was a matter that I was not president. It was solved with a presiding colleague. Therefore, what is being solved cannot be repeated. It cannot be rejected, let us say a request, that another President returns and is brought back. That is what I said in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u454	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u455	Mr. Skourletis, a little later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u456	Mr President, two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u457	Immediately after Mr. Gika, so that the situation can be dismantled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u458	Mr President, Mr Gikas is better off talking about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u459	Wait a minute, here you go. In general, I say this for everyone, the argument is not impressive with tension, but with its content.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u460	I am obviously not speaking on any personal matters. I take the floor as a parliamentary representative because I am impressed by the way Mr Kegeroglu approached the proposal for a law tabled by SYRIZA on the issue of the overcompensation of the New Democracy Party. The parties of 2% of "SIEMENS" cannot thus speak in front of the Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u461	What Mr Kegeroglu said was on a personal subject of specific colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u462	It's a heavy responsibility to the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u463	It wasn't about...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u464	Please, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u465	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u466	Please, Mr President, do not do this again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u467	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u468	I want the floor for my second speech as a parliamentary representative now! Can I have him?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u469	Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u470	But you can't do that. Please! Mr. Tasoulas did it against Mr. Tsipras! Do not repeat this choking practice!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u471	Listen! Here we give the floor to everyone to speak and contradict the arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u472	There is no 'everyone'. There is a regulation, there are parliamentary representatives. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u473	If you want the floor for two-minute intervention as a parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u474	I have asked for the floor for two minutes, as I am entitled to be a parliamentary representative. You make the choice, while I speak and develop my positions, to intervene by violating your ethics and role as President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u475	Listen, let me answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u476	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u477	If we apply the Rules of Procedure here literally, I tell you that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u478	Oh, really?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u479	Here's the thing. I don't exclude anyone. There is tolerance for the issues of the Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u480	I'm not asking for any tolerance. I exercise my rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u481	In bills, except when the parliamentary representative is entitled to speak in the intervening period, he shall also be entitled under the Rules of Procedure. He's picking up what the MPs say and speaking. But in practice we have left it. There's tolerance. So on personal grounds, if you do not have the floor, I do not give you the floor. I give you the floor as a parliamentary representative for two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u482	I'd be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u483	You don't have any staff. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou had a personal one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u484	So why intervention? Obviously you didn't like the content of what I was saying. There has been a major political issue for years with regard to the immunity that both parties, PASOK and the New Democracy have had in the context of the bi-partyism of interlocutory, which has bankrupt us as a country. And it is indicative that both parties are overdebted. It's not personal, it's deeply political. Therefore, there should be even after so many years, a little shame and a distance from these practices. When Mr Tsukatos spoke of 2% of SIEMENS, you both had the same practice. You billed a country. So you cannot go beyond SYRIZA's proposal today because it is a spitting attitude to the Greek people. The concept of participation and, at the moment, the obligations of these parties vis-à-vis the banks are the least that Members of Parliament can do on the basis of this political identity. Get out and get out. Do your self-criticism. What to do! As long as you speak in the name of those days you have obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u485	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u486	He doesn't have any staff here. He made a political position. It therefore responded to the criticism you made in the proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u487	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u488	No, Mr. Kegeroglu. It's not personal. You spoke eight minutes instead of three you were entitled. I'll give Mr. Gika the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u489	Mr President, what I said from the Step of the House has been distorted. I want the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u490	So you can say what? Only if you want to clarify if he's falsified something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u491	I said that SYRIZA had the right to table a proposal for a law even though we would expect it to be done five years that he was ruling and not now that he table the proposal for a law. I said he has an absolute right. Others I said: Is it morally right that the party's secretary, in particular, Mr Ragus and Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, should charge those who had no connection? That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u492	Yes, sir. The explanations have been given. Mr. Gika, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u493	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot go into the temptation because we are not yesterday. I entered politics in 2007, and I remember the geography of people in the 2009 elections very well. After a few years, I remember SYRIZA's conferences and conferences. One was the voice: "PASOK is here united, strong." I'm sorry, but that's the truth. I now enter this very serious bill, which I consider to be an incision to our country's labour data. It is a pity that the opposition, whether gainful or not, did not take this opportunity productively to contribute to a debate in order to improve the law's provisions and provide citizens with positive services. Unfortunately, it was followed by an extreme opposition tactic, I would say, in a micro-political sense, a "no" in everything, describing the bill as supposedly anti-government and calling with incredible names this law, "excitement, roller, retractor" and much more. But what is the truth? Reading the more than a hundred twenty articles of this law, we see that it is primarily a charitable law. It does protect work, it actually ratifys serious conventions by the International Labour Organisation and of course incorporates into the existing European directive on the balance between work and family life. This directive allows for the right to vote for benefits which have so far not existed, which helps the motherhood, fatherhood and strengthens the family. This is very important because nowadays, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the major problem facing the country is demographic. Therefore, when there are such laws that help the family, only positive can they be. There is one argument from the Opposition that these positive provisions are a contour, and that means are anti-corruption provisions and extremities against the workers of provision. But that's not the way it is. I think it's clear. You are shouting from the opposition that it is lifting the eighth hour. But how is the eighth to be abolished, since Article 55 precisely guarantees the eighth? You're shouting about the increase in overtime. But why are you shouting at the increase in overtime when the hundred and fifty hours provided for in the law adopt exactly the European average and even an increased fee? There is a lot of talk of adjusting working hours. But the government of Mitsotakis does not find the wheel. The working time arrangement has been in place for thirty years. It is a European tactic that has been under way for many years now. But this law also puts a brake - to allow me to speak - on trade union immunity. Many things all these years had taken a bad path. I will say a few words about this: the possibility of financing trade unions and operators by businesses, parties and by ECHO is being abolished. This ensures their independence. Finally, it is very important, and this is very important, to protect the social fabric from the consequences of the strikes, since it is envisaged to ensure that the minimum guaranteed service is provided for the common interest defined in 1/3 and that is very essential. At the same time, it puts an end to the phenomenon of the circumvention of judgments in which strikes judged illegal are re-proclaimed the next day. However, the 'weapon' offered by this law to workers for their protection is also very important. What's that? It is the digital card of the worker who is now electronically talking about everything we have said before - that is, overtime, work arrangement, eight hours or if you want to work enhanced - it seems that the worker is being protected, because there cannot be immunity from employers. This, together with the introduction for the first time of teleworking, creates a new landscape that actually serves the worker and sets a framework within which the employer must move. This law is therefore a law that modernises our labour legislation which has remained about the same forty years, helps motherhood, helps fatherhood, helps new families, has too many provisions that restrict bad past phenomena. For all these reasons, it is a reform law that we should all support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u494	Thank you, too. Mrs. Panayiou Poulo from SYRIZA has the floor now and immediately thereafter Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Palioura from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u495	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position on the bill, I would like to condemn the unprecedented attempt to frustrate the Chief of Staff Response last Friday in this Chamber. In order to cover the fusion of Mr Mitsotakis, the Bureau of Parliament refused to give the floor to the President of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance on the issue of the enormous debts of the New Democracy and closed the sitting without delay. However, the truth is one and it cannot be melted. While hundreds of thousands of businesses are suffocating, excluded from banking, the New Democracy has no problem raising its debts over the past five years from 220 million to 343 million euros. In other words, within the Presidency of Mr Mitsotakis, the debt was ejected by 120 million euros. But whatever kind of method you can try to hide the truth. The New Democracy is another bankrupt party, a strategic bad-payer who borrows against the Greek taxpayer. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we have been discussing since yesterday in plenary, the Mitsotakis Government shows its most severe class person. And where does he do that? Of course in the field of work. Just where the regulation of unequal relations is absolutely essential, the government overthrows workers' conquests and abolishes their necessary protection. He thus confirms that he is legislating against the weak, for the large at the expense of the small, for the few at the expense of the many. Because it's not the government of all Greeks, it's the government of oligarchy. It is not a government that creates, which adds to the country's assets, but a government that destroys, which removes resources, property and rights. Services for the future interests hide behind all the legislation on the economy, housing, health, education and labour. With the new bankruptcy code and the auctions it gives the houses of small and medium-sized enterprises to banks and cords. The law on admission to higher education excludes twenty-five thousand students and students from universities and private colleges rub their hands, of course. And now with Mr. Hatzidakis' bill abortion, he creates working jungle conditions and BSE applauds enthusiastically. Just listing the main provisions of the bill is gloomy, Minister. He's out of the Chamber. He'll definitely find out. Remove eight hours and impose 10 hours of work without additional pay, but with payment on the day off. You double the cheap overtime, catalyse the collective agreements and lead to uncontrolled redundancies. It does not seem to you that the sharp slap that you received from the Scientific Service of the Parliament on the individual contracts that it tells you is self-evident that there are no genuine individual agreements between workers and employers, since the former always depends on the latter. After all, you do not even care to keep the reservations, so you do not even provide for the timely registration of individual agreements in the 'ERGANI' so that they are known to the audit authorities and that they are respected. But what control authorities are we talking about, since you promote their complete dissolution and close the eye to the employer that any infringement of the rules will now be tolerated? Of course you are attacking trade union freedoms without precedent and you are effectively abolishing the right to strike. In order to intimidate workers who claim their rights, you facilitate the dismissal of trade unionists and you introduce wicked provisions on civil liability for unions. In fact, trying to gold out the pill for the workers you combine cynicism with hypocrisy. That is why you added to the bill the international conventions of the International Labour Organisation on Health and Safety, on violence and abuse at work and on the European Union Directive on parental leave. The only positive provisions of the bill are not yours, but they are imposed on you by International Union law. If it were up to you, of course, they would never join. After all, you have delayed them too much to be the fantastic wrapping-up of the framework for total deregulation that you are currently legislating on. Obviously, Ministers, you believe that the complete deregulation of the working landscape, the absolute optimisation of work, will improve the competitiveness of the economy, although there are individual voices in your party that question this. You live your dream. You are finally giving you the opportunity to feel a little "Chicago Boys" and to try out in Greece the outdated neoliberal recipes of the past decades, those implemented by the oligarchal elites throughout Eastern Europe and South America and turned their economies and societies into ruins, while you know that competitiveness can only be improved by investing in knowledge, human capital, with the support of workers and small and medium-sized enterprises. Do you remember the grand promises you made in the middle class about many good jobs? What they've seen for two years now is just a few mispaid jobs. That is why the Brain Drain has already returned and the situation will become even worse with your bill. But don't worry about it now by legislating against workers, but be sure that in the next polls the people will reward you with the day off. Your bill, Minister, will remain inapplicable. Where workers are already organized in strong unions and where they do not yet exist, workers will be assembled to defend their rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the exit from the pandemic tunnel will bring our society face to face with unprecedented challenges. Their management requires the state to return to its regulatory, protective and redistributive role. In other words, it requires a new truly progressive governance for the country that will overthrow the policies of the New Democracy, protect society from poverty and authoritarianism and implement a new effective productive model with respect for the environment and the rights of workers. This governance, ladies and gentlemen, will come through the cooperation of all the progressive forces. We can no longer leave society free in the destructive policies of the right. Soon the damage will be irreversible. That's why no one's left over. We need to build a strong progressive majority to get the country out of the staircase as soon as possible. In conclusion, I, too, wish good strength and success to the students and students who are tested in the pan-Hellenic exams and to remind them that there are no dead ends in life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u496	Thank you, too. Mrs Catherine Papakosta - Papura has the floor. And then Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou prepares for SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u497	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely respectable and fair in a Parliamentary Republic that the opposition and its parties seek by means of the opposition and the fertile controversy to gain an essential place on the political front and to become. The opposition is, however, used to be associated with strong arguments and structured speech and no neutronist rhetoric, with false and unfounded and unfounded paraphilia. The truth is that, while we have waited for once again, naïvely, proposals and productive dialogue, you fellow Members of the counter-population are doing nothing more at all during this period of public and parliamentary dialogue than just indulging and going into irreversible cries of levelling and disinforming everything, in lame arguments, into extreme characterisations. You did not hesitate to call it an abortion bill, a retreat, a shrine, a medieval, punishing, backward, anti-democratic, anti-democratic, reactionary, anti-constitutional. I think that whatever word was in the Greek vocabulary in "anti" you have recruited. And of course, in order not to blame you, we've seen this project before, we've had it before. Basically, it's like you've drawn up an informal norm where no matter what bill New Democracy brings you to repeat with the same standard wood without any arguments, which makes you so expected, not to say unbearablely boring. Take, for example, your psychological argument why we should bring this bill now. And, of course, our answer is one and only. Why not now? You mean when? After forty years, what has passed to finally find a government that is deafening again to reform self-evident? And you want to bring the title of the progressive forces of this country, when you are so stubbornly insisting on remaining struggling with the social and labour reality of four decades back? Do you know what this argument reminds me of? It reminds me of this inconsistent theory that the Left is always doing, and in the narrow and broad sense, which likes or is likely to make it easier to view all the bad texts as a result of neoliberalism and the capitalist state. It is a theory that goes beyond its principles and its verbal wording, which takes 10 years of analysis and another ten years in order to establish any agreement or opinion, but 10 more for any verifications, even a few ten years to say, so that we can finally conclude that the very social reality has been overtaken. He left us - although macabre what I'm about to say - like the apologies, time lazy. You also said, ladies and gentlemen, that in the 21st century it is impossible for our country to return to dark times, where the workers were working sunlight without rights, without being rewarded for their hard work and hard work. How deeply false, but also hypocritical at the same time is that? And since really all these days you're doing nothing but swinging our fingers off, it's going to be interesting at some point to see what real working conditions actually prevail in the very few remaining communist countries of the world. You are allegedly being cut in the interests of the worker, but in his need you would not give him your fever! You have also proved this when, in the midst of a pandemic, we have not accepted to give half of your two-parliamentary wages for the benefit of the brutal health system invoking cheap rhetoric. It has also proved to us in the past, and when Mrs Papayannakis said it was reasonable, then, once the Communist parties were involved in business within the capitalist system, they must behave as any businessman conducts. When they go, they say, well, jobs are being invested with the integration of party businesses into development laws. However, when jobs do not go well, there are delays in the payment of employees, see "AGEI" and the radio station "In Red" or even locking up, as in the "Supplementary". We said, you're left, not fools! So, in order to put things in place, both the Orthodox communists and the SYRIZA leadership are fighting to defend the rights of all workers, but those employed in the businesses that belong to their parties. It is of interest to them again what Mrs Papagas said in July 2010 on the wages of workers and businessmen. In a relevant reporter's question why part of their wages employees in the JRC's business are forced to return to the party and present it as a wage cut, he replied: "The "RIZOPASTI" and "902" are not a business. They are mechanisms, instruments - say as you like - the party's propaganda. They are recruited in these areas because they are partisan work and offering." We, when giving increases to the members of the party, never gave up more than normal workers, because there was an incentive at once. So we didn't give what we claimed when we said 1,400 euros, say. He also said that the worker has too many forms of pay, and he meant wages. It's got forms of red bodies. Let's say, financial expeditions for the party's building have been given red cuts, that is, the workers did not get their cuts. So what we have to conclude is that the communist society, as the Left deals with it, and to which we would necessarily all be party members, half our cuts, reds, would be unpaid, low wages and we could certainly say nothing. Nightmare! These are you, ladies and gentlemen, of the Anti-Population and, above all, of the Left, broader and not, incredibly out-of-date, unbelievably false and hypocritical. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. You are disturbed today when it has been institutionalised for years and when it has been signed for SYRIZA days by Directive 1158/19 and applied to many companies. You are disturbed by the digital card, deep down, while it is a time-consuming request from the GFCM. It disturbs you that the APRC is actually upgraded to an independent authority. Why is that? Does it bother you that there is no governmental and political control anymore? Is fairness bothering you and you want the trade unions to be on strikes above justice? Well, for parental leave a fish. You're making them a garrison, commonly. You are also disturbed by the consolidation of trade unions and the position of principles of transparency. In fact, you do not want the electronic registration of trade unions and employers' associations. Why is that? Why do you like it and it suits you to fish in bluish waters? It is true that when water is blurred, many things do not seem, while when it is clear, everything is visible. It is of course annoying because at last the trade unionists and especially the chief trade unionists will not be unavoidable. For people to understand, do you want them protected, with protection beyond this single pregnant woman? Why is that? Why is it that some of them are your persuasive organs in creating and challenging situations?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u498	Hang up, please. You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u499	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think that's the answer. In addition, Mrs Ahtsoglou, former SYRIZA Minister for Labour, admitted it indirectly at an online party event a few months ago. "Reality has never been a chance for the Left".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u500	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u501	Of course, in order not to blame the former Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, he has in the past said a greater truth, that in the second time, the aim will be to control all the joints of power. So it's clear why so much mud in this bill. Workers, such as society itself, have at last rejected populism, ideality and political vulgarity, a vulgarity that is not limited to extreme characterisations, but also the false paternalist attitude of the workers' parties that treat citizens as suckers, obviously because they judge differentists themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u502	Thank you, too. Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou from SYRIZA has the floor and immediately thereafter Mrs Brysidou from New Democracy. Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u503	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I will make a reference to the forty dismissals who have set up scenes outside the Ministry of Labour today, and if they haven't started, they're preparing for a hunger strike, because after seven years of continuous work, you've thrown them on the road. Mr Hatzidakis is not here to hear what we are saying today in such an important debate. That's what he's worth in his bill. I fear that these images, sleeping out of the Ministry and reaching the last solution of desperation, risking their physical integrity to save their dignity, will become the normality in your days, ladies and gentlemen, and this is a shame on a democratic state. As far as the bill is concerned today, no matter what you read from the scourge you have given you - that others understand it not - as much as you slander the trade unionists, even your trade unionists, as much as you blame the opposition, you remain on the side of the employers and you are here to do their dirty work. You make sure there is no rule and no control on the labour market and your arguments are from jokes to laughter. We heard the Minister all these days saying that the workers will be able to collect olives. We heard Mr. Cyranakis say that the sick will work more so that they can go to the doctor later. We have heard Mr Voloudakis today say that travel costs will be the benefit of workers if they work longer for fewer days. We even heard Mr. Economou tell us the tragic thing, that you do not react differently, and you do not say different things, because last week's strike didn't have much people, and if there were a lot of people, then your attitude would be different. Listen up! You're ashamed to say that you're abolishing the eighth. You're removing it. When you say in Article 55(2) that fulltime is now included in four-day work, you are no longer entitled to eight hours. You're doing it in ten hours. Four days, ten hours. So you're dropping the eight. What don't you understand? What do your MPs say? Four days, ten hours!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u504	Four, not five.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u505	Another forty hours a week, which you abolish, and then I'll say it another eight hours. Eight hours are the hours someone works every day. You're removing it eight hours. You're just talking about forty hours a week and getting confused. You are therefore abrogating forty hours a week with the work arrangement. Maybe someone's been working for over 40 hours and not being paid for and paid for by the day off. And while GSEE and the supreme body, the international labour organisation has repeatedly told us all of us even to see the institution of the association of persons because even the association of persons is not possible to make forced agreements for everyone, we do not only listen to them, but we are now giving them the 'capacity' to the simple worker - unfortunately we are giving the opportunity - to go to the ordinary worker alone and to conclude an agreement with the employer, unless you want to tell us here that the employer and the worker have equal negotiating power, that they are equal, that they have the same power, the same negotiating capacity and will have the same consequences, if they cannot agree. 99.9% of enterprises in Greece are small and medium-sized, where there are no unions. And you come and tell us that 'only if there is no union, he will go to work alone'. What do you think? So far the work arrangement has been submitted to the APRC, it was an agreement between the union and the employer and it is submitted to the APRC. Now how do you keep? Are they going to take the extra hours they're going to take them off? When does the employer want? How's it gonna be? Today I've worked one, write it down to my book. Do you owe it to me? What are you doing for the overtime? You are increasing overtime in legal times, i.e. you are actually legitimate not only in the tenth hour, but also in the 12-hour period. What do you think? Eight hours legal work plus one overworking, plus three legal overtime, twelve hours. And you're saying that from there on, it'll have a 120% increase in the illegal. But it also has the right for the Secretary-General of the Ministry to do illegal and the extra one of fifty. In other words, one will never get a 120% increase, because the Secretary-General, Mr. Tsrainakis, will come and say that "I legalize more than a hundred hours" and you will see it. Well, to provide additional work by part-time workers and the possibility that an employer is given to tell the part-time worker "you will work two hours in the morning and two hours in the afternoon" and it will not be possible for a person to find another job to complete his income, you understand and I do not need to tell you that it is unreasonable. For the protection of redundancies, I would like to ask the Minister or Mr Tsakloglu. Mr Tsakloglu, some restrictive cases are mentioned where the dismissal is invalid. I wish I had the time to explain why you are exacerbating the position of pregnant women and everyone else, because now their dismissal is completely invalid, not invalid. So an employer wants to fire all the workers at his factory, his business. So he's suing them for a pretext that they've done a damage and fired a hundred people. And they go and they're acquitted of criminal law, and they're punished in court. You know they can't go back to work? They can't go back to work while they were fired by false and pretextal lawsuit. What happens in this case? Why don't you anticipate this case in your bill? Mr. Laurentiadis has done so. He has fired one hundred and eighty persons with false and pretextal lawsuits that they burned the mountain and were justified and returned to work and were irrevocably acquitted to the criminal courts. From the vote of your bill, each employer will be able to file a false complaint because they stole his pen or glass the water and only by submitting the denial will be fired without compensation for dismissal and will not be able to return to work. Change it even now! Please add to the cases of void dismissal and the possibilities to return to work when they are acquitted after the suspension.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u506	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u507	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm not talking about the strike. There is no chance of any strike being made. What do you mean if he comes third and commits psychological violence to those who do not strike, workers will have civil responsibility and the strike will be declared illegal? Can we know who gets into the strikers? And what's he gonna say? So if the striker goes and tells his colleague "you're not ashamed, you're swindled, I'm hungry, and my family is hungry, and you're getting into work and you're a striker" doesn't have the right? This is psychological violence and will the strike be declared illegal? There is no way that the strike will not be declared illegal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u508	Please complete. You've been to nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u509	And I'm finishing up. Unfortunately, I had too much to say. Eventually, neither you nor Mr Mitsotakis have yet convinced that there are people who are dependent on their wages or even worse, you have inspired it and dishonestly ignore it. But society will not ignore for much longer your purposes and the interests that you serve as many Pecha lists and create to fade up the information and brainwash the citizens. The incomprehensibles that you are voting on today and within the pandemic have no social consensus at all, and so they will be revoked by society itself in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u510	Thank you, too. Mrs. Brysidou Friday has the floor, and immediately afterwards Mrs. Merope Jufi from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u511	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the ten-year economic crisis and the malfunctioning of the pandemic have created new data and many problems, which the government and all of us must explore and provide solutions, to have proposals for all of this and to make it easier for the Greek citizen. And what are the problems that we should not be ignoring today? It is that all we have been through created difficulties in finding jobs. Unemployment is constantly threatening to increase. We therefore need to take measures to keep jobs, to enable workers to be insured, to be able to find jobs, to be able to work, to the elderly, who are not retired and to find a job, to have a provision until they are retired, as is the case with people with disabilities. All these issues have been dealt with and there is concern. In the past and even before the pandemic, fines were paid to employers who did not secure workers. The OAED has 70% and 90% funding and grant programmes for people who are fifty-five or sixty-five years old or have a disability respectively. Also, during the pandemic period, there was particular care for workers who, by the suspension of work, all retained their jobs and had an income. These behaviours show logic, show attitudes and demonstrate that the government as its first concern really has the support of the worker, because it is not simple or we can be sure that something similar would be done by other governments. And today this government, which has shown that it cares for the worker and cares for him with all the measures he has taken so far, wants to take further steps, must do so because there are other needs and must protect the worker in other areas, such as overtime and the time that he is not registered. In this way, the job card is introduced. In this way, every worker will have the full number of hours worked and will be able to claim his overtime and he is, of course, obliged to give them to him by the employer. At the same time, we are looking after special licences. There are various charges. I would, however, like to stand on this father's license, with which it takes fourteen days after the child's birth. And here's a message of equality, recognition of the right and the father to devote time to his newborn child. At the same time, there is a four-month parental leave to both parents, where the two months are subsidised by the OAED and for six months and the father cannot be fired from his job because he has acquired a child. This provision also helps women whom employers viewed with suspicion and fear of giving birth to a child and who are forced to pay without being present. Now there is no such separation and we think that women will be better and easier to consolidate in the workplace. There is also provision for violence and sexual harassment in the workplace. It's a piece that tortured women. Those who have dealt with and investigated these issues know that it was particularly painful, that some workers, particularly women, have led them to unemployment as they have had to leave or have to go through very difficult procedures. It is a very good prediction which we must also highlight and vote on as a whole. The next thing I'd like to report is teleworking. Although there was no infrastructure from previous years and from the previous government, the gap was quickly covered and the government managed to use this parameter which was very useful for our day-to-day operation, even for education. Here I would like to refer to the eighth question which has been discussed a great deal. The New Democracy Government and all of us care about the worker. We have proved this with all that has been passed so far and with the new bill, but we too, from our path, from the efforts and the work that we have done next to the worker. However, I am amazed at the agony and tensions complaining of opposition MPs, particularly SYRIZA, because they are being abolished in eight hours and will not take over the overtime that will be nine and ten hours in money and will take them off. And I wonder, don't they know to date that it was working without the overtime being paid and without taking the day off? What is a thousand times worse has been dealt with by the SYRIZA government in previous years? What measure, what law protected the worker from this situation? Today comes the day off, which is useful, and some workers need it. It's not negative. It has been proven by the market, by young scientists, by people who did not find work in their family next door, but in another city and want to work longer some days and some other days to return home and see their children. There are also categories of people who are facilitated by this process. I really do not understand how we defend the interests of workers when we do not defend the work itself. The New Democracy is on the right basis. He proved it so far. She is interested in the upward trend in growth and the economy. Each sector supports it in such a way that we can make progress, feel secure. Economic security attracts investors and growth and the strong economy is the one that will create jobs and which will really support the worker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u512	Thank you, my colleague. Ms. Meropi Jufi from SYRIZA has the floor and Mrs. Constantina Adamou will then be prepared by Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u513	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to top the parliamentary procedure for the Hatzidakis-Mitsotakis bill, all of which is all ready, and all of which is unloaded and make-up, a favourite piece of legislation of the few and the strong ones, which will soon be discussed with society and the Greek people. Despite all the efforts of the government to hide its anti-government intentions and authoritarianism, unfortunately using as a result the European treaties and declarations which could, as we have suggested, be brought down and voted on separately by all of us, the bill has been revealed. It is an amalgamation of authoritarianism and neoliberalism that combines the iron fist with the velvety glove, state repression with the famous economic flexibility and necessary by altering all concepts by using neo-language or "new speak" v Orwell. In fact, speaking today, the Minister has lost his temper and realised that he has rallyed to society, your favourite polls show a rejection of the law at more than 60%, all the parliamentary parties, the trade unions, their legal scientists, as well as some Members of Parliament and trade unionists of your party. Mr President-in-Office, it is clear that despite false words, it is a bill that affects people of work, since with individual contracts you are squeezing the rights of workers and giving them to employers. Disincentive the Labour Inspectorate and the worker protection mechanism is transformed into an independent arbitration authority with reduced responsibilities. And to do all this you do not hesitate to punish any reaction and trade union action. Your party's announcement today is indicative. You are talking about "bazaars" in which the millions of people of Athens will again be subjected to to work tomorrow on a strike day, while you falsely said that participation in the pan-Hellenic exams is being jeopardised. In fact, you had the Minister of Education move legally against ADEDY, and you already knew that OLEME had requested an exception from the mobilisation. So only communication, fear and cynicism, ladies and gentlemen of the government. That's how you've been ruling the country for two years. Your bill is critically affecting the most vulnerable, the unemployed, and even when the number of non-active citizens has increased by a hundred and sixty thousand compared to the previous year. And of course, it also hurts the small and medium-sized ones despite your inexpensive election and post-election statements. The provisions favour the great interests, i.e. the submissions of your legislation, Mr Ministers. A characteristic example is the expansion of work on Sunday, which increases unfair competition between small and large enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, the report by INE/GSY must give us some thought, since in a thorough way it demonstrates the balmification of wages and the dramatic weakening of the purchasing power of workers especially now with the pandemic. Greece has the worst service in terms of the quality of employment in the European Union and the highest rate of job degradation compared to 2010. The Quality Index of Employment of the Confederation of the European Trade Unions in 2019 presents Greece in the last place in the Member States of the European Union. For all this, what does the government say and what does it propose? At a time when the European countries are trying to heal the pandemic wounds with the support of wage earners and employment strengthening, you have found the opportunity to go ahead with the demolition of the social state and the deregulation of labour relations. For example, I mention some other European countries, with a different political orientation, which went through memoranda, such as Spain and Portugal, where collective labour agreements are protected and accounts for 60% - 70% of all contracts, and the relevant legislative initiative on the introduction of the labour card is, correctly speaking, the responsibility of the joint trade unions and the labour inspection which you here, on the substance, have, after consciously degraded, been abolished. You're angry, of course, because we don't recognize your social face. Obviously, you were expecting us to tell you a good night's payout, about the wasted hours, about the supposedly positive arrangements, about the working students, when Mrs. Keramos writes them off from the universities because they weren't done on time. Are you expecting the credits for Sunday work in private schools? But you'll be given by the schoolmasters who finance you. They have declared it here at a sitting of the House. Minister, on the occasion of the Yannina disgrace conference on fertility, which was canceled in barley and in which so many members and members of your government would participate, what do you say? Do you think that women need propaganda and admonition for their late decision to have a child? Do you and your MPs believe that your anti-corruption bill will facilitate new couples and favour their living conditions for the creation of the family? Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, most of you are far away from the harsh reality of workers, families, simple people and much more - unfortunately - from the life of the unemployed young people, who have been tortured for years with the dilemma whether or not they will have a child, because they are in conditions of material destabilisation and precariousness. So the world of work and the world of unemployment tells you a bronze 'no'. Even if this monstrous bill is passed by the isolated government majority, sooner or later it will be the tombstone of the New Democracy government policy and will become the fuse that will trigger future, political and social developments. SYRIZA today is committed to all the tones that the "Hatzidakis" bill will be the first to abolish and this will not be the basis of a narrow-minded party debate, but on the basis of our logic that labour is the key component of fair and sustainable development. Upgrading the quality of employment, increasing the minimum wage, restoring the good reason for redundancies, reducing the working week, and increasing the role of job inspection are some of the main issues of our political programme. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It is our duty, all of our progressive citizens, to overthrow the "blue" anti-gaining bill of shame and regression into policies of the 1980s, the "Theacher and Reagan", which creates even greater discrimination and inequality, while modern technology increases productivity and provides an opportunity for people to work less, without reducing their wages and living well and working all. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, the law will prevail. It will be scanned by the unity and determination of the world of work and effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u514	Thank you, too. Ms Constantina Adamou has the floor since Mera25, and then the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Vesyropoulos, will speak to develop the amendment with number 931/11-6-2021 on the subject of'ships for Forum and other urgent cases'. And this cycle will close before we enter the tenth with a speech by Mr Ioannis Callianos. Here, Mrs. Adamou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u515	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say a great deal of success to our students and students who are giving a full-fledged examination, which started yesterday, but I would like to express already my warmest congratulations to all these children, regardless of the outcome, as the struggle and effort they have done all this time is very bad in such difficult circumstances. And as if not all of this were enough with the pandemic and its mismanagement by the Minister of Education, on the day of the full-hearted examinations, there was also the beginning of the discussion of the disastrous and anti-corruption bill by the Ministry of Labour. It is just like the government tells our young people and young people that even if you do, children, in the pan-Hellenic exams, you should have your gaze in other countries, abroad, as in Greece the already hostile or non-existent, often, working environment becomes even more hostile and relentless. So, Minister, do not talk about Brain - Drain, returning our young people, but be honest and talk about continuing Brain - Drain, as it is your choice to prosecute our young people. And the reference to family planning is far beyond misleading, as this bill does not have any personal time at all. Those who are not already parents will reduce the hours spent in their children even further, and there will be no compensation for this, because you are now too flexible to work hours according to the needs of the employer, without, of course, having to pay overtime. As a compensation, the worker will now be entitled to reduced working hours or off-takes, which will obviously take not whenever he wishes to do so, but in a time which is convenient for the employer, when the requirements are few, since the employer and the employee do not have the same sort of dictatorial power, which is exactly what the report of the House's Scientific Service says. All this will be signed in an individual contract. So we're talking about abolishing collective agreements. Let us not forget, however, that collective agreements are the power of the workers, and you are taking this power away from them to strengthen even a few big-time workers, because small and medium-sized enterprises are not at all favoured by these provisions. In another article in the bill we see that the annual overtime rises with a low 40% increase in fifty hours a year. Furthermore, the one and only holidays of the week, Sunday holidays for many additional branches, apart from focusing and retailing, such as supermarkets, courier companies, logistics companies etc. Thus, we are talking for more hours and days of work and less gains. Your bill has nothing to do with the four-day work in Spain's standards, that is, at thirty-two hours of work per week without a reduction in wages, which now finds ground around the world and is a progressive division in labour, since it is certain that it will increase the productivity of employees, improving their mental health. But you, Minister, who are not here at the moment, on what four-day work are you talking about, when with this bill you condone forty hours of work every week in a diner without being considered overtime when you keep the six-day weekly work and when you expand the branches for which Sunday work is allowed? You also talk misleadingly about extending the list of cases of nullity or abusive dismissal when the same bill abolishes the obligation to re-entry workers from the employer even when the worker is justified by judicial decisions. So you are consciously driving a lot more people into unemployment. But that is obviously not your concern, Mr Hatzidakis, as our relationship with the work itself has always been purely platonic. In addition, it is necessary to register the trade unions’ files in an electronic register, which will include key elements such as statutes, seat, number of members and addresses. In fact, registration will be a prerequisite for any collective mobilisation, such as the declaration of strike. This is how you want to strike and later abolish the collective and democratic processes and labour assemblies at a time when both the European Union and America, in the wake of the pandemic crisis, discover the benefits of the social state and support the world of work in a variety of ways as a basic lever for growth, of course. Your Government, however, chooses the institutional regression to the standards of the Thatcher model by abolishing all forms of collective and worker protection. Even in the leading power of capitalist Europe, Germany, over six million workers are organized in trade unions, enjoying trade union freedoms fully recognised and included in the German Constitution. So, by blocking trade union freedom and collective bargaining at the workplace, a dystopic working environment is being created and you are isolating the worker at an unequal negotiating juncture with employers. In addition, you are degrading the Labour Inspectorate to an independent authority and it is certain that employers' abuses will increase against workers, because you yourself will choose the majority of the members of the Inspection Body and have already shown your intentions, since high-value fines will be imposed on businesses involving infringements of labour law. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is incompatible with our Labour Law and obviously their title is misleading. As it is misleading to incorporate into your multi-brand plan and ratify the 190 Convention of the International Labour Organisation to eliminate violence and harassment in the world of work. It goes without saying that we will be voting in favour of this International Convention, as it is the first international convention that explicitly recognises the right to work without violence and harassment and also because it recognises sexual harassment and gender harassment at work as forms of racial violence which disproportionately affect women. It covers violence and harassment, not only in the workplace, but also in every area or situation relating to work. In this sense, therefore, it represents progress in relation to the relevant Union acquis. However, the ratification of this convention did not bring it as an independent draft law, as you had to, since the Member States of the European Union had to deposit the contract to be voted on by the end of last year. But you are now bringing her along with the bill, obviously, to disorientate the debate. As you went to disorientate the Court's debate on the ingenuity that would take place, which has fortunately been deferred after reactions. In this respect, I have this point, ladies and gentlemen of the government: it is not the lack of knowledge of women about fertility in Greece, but the lack of adequate social policy and support for young parents. The regulations promoted by the Government are a direct attack on the world of work and are aimed solely at elasticising working hours, legitimising the unpaid overtime of employment, reducing trade union freedoms and abolishing the control of employers' arbitrage. Your bill, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is attempting to turn the country's workforce into a debt colony of the European Union, by suggesting the circles of parasitic oligarchy. Be sure that your bill will in practice be abolished by the world of work and this direct attack on the workers will not be easily forgotten by the social majority, no matter how you try to hide or look at its consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u516	Thank you, too. Mr Besyropoulos has the floor to develop the amendment I have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u517	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall take the floor to refer to the content of the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This bill comes to address and regulate major issues at work by introducing an innovative institutional framework when the current institutional framework has remained unchanged since 1982. This new institutional framework aims to strengthen social cohesion and strengthen productivity by attracting investment. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning of my speech, I have taken the floor to refer to Amendment No 931 and to specific number 64 tabled by the Ministry of Finance and deals with issues relating to tax policy. These are regulations aimed at supporting those affected by the pandemic, and also to modernise and simplify the current regulatory framework. Article 1 updates the first category of vessel tax and levy rates of Law 27/1975 and the first category of contribution of Law 29/1975. In particular, the total tonnage and age amounts of the ship are increased for the years 2021 to 2025 by 4% annually, and the same applies to the amounts of the contribution. The aim is to increase the revenue from the adjustment of the tax rates and the first-class ship contribution under Law 27/1975, as well as the rates of contribution under Law 29/1975 for the five-year period 2021-2025, while suspending the increase especially for 2021 due to the apparent and visible consequences of the pandemic. Article 2 updates and rationalises the rates of taxation for small private pleasure boats. To date, private pleasure boats, regardless of size, had an increase rate of 5 on the calculated tax per vessel. By means of the arrangements to be voted on, vessels up to seven metres long will have an increase rate of 0,5 and vessels from seven to twelve metres will have a coefficient of 1. Article 3 clarifies the terms, conditions and procedure for the payment of the proposed grant for the transport costs of publishing undertakings. It is clear that this grant is inappropriate, with the exception of debts to tax administration and non-regulated insurance funds. With a view to streamlining procedures and facilitating taxpayers’ proceedings, the next article shall be regulated by which the obligation to produce evidence of tax information on behalf of the person who is to seize in the event of a payment of a payment order by the State, when such payment is made in a final judicial decision, is abolished. Article 5 seeks to strengthen the liquidity of undertakings active in the oil market, but without at the same time cause for delay for annual public revenue. The facility provided is a small credit up to five days for the period up to 20 December each year to the oil companies for payment to customs of charges for liquid fuels and liquefied gas leaving tax warehouses. I note that the credit is granted under guarantee, thereby ensuring 100% of the amount corresponding to taxes. As I have said many times in my position in Parliament, the government will constantly update or renew support measures for businesses, workers and social groups affected by the negative effects of the pandemic. This is the direction in which Article 6 of the amendment is extended and for June, which provides for a full exemption from the obligation to pay a rent for enterprises active in the tourism, culture, sport, transport and catering sectors, where restrictive measures are imposed. At the same time, it should be stressed that the payment of a reduced rental of 40% is in force in June for the retail trade, for the main residence of workers who are suspended in June and for the student residence of these dependent members. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm gonna need two more minutes, Mr. President. The aim of the Government at all times is to proceed to institutional interventions on the basis of rational criteria, which facilitate citizens. A certain difficulty has been recorded in registering property in the real estate register, due to the fact that there is a large number of irrevocable pre-agreements due to the incompatibility of the seller of his heirs. The regulation to be voted on allows definitive contracts to be drawn up in a pre-convention with the right to self-convention and without requiring the presentation of evidence of information, certificate of inheritance tax, donation and parental benefit. Under Article 8, the Government extends, for 2021, the exemption of the agricultural parcels of natural persons from the supplementary ENPI, while maintaining for 2021 the interim reduction of 22% of HPAI for natural persons, a reduction made by the New Democracy Government for the first time with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis for the first time and resulting in the issue of liquidating HPAI for the first time a reduced tax. An act of rationalisation and social justice is Article 9 which exempts HNPH from the property in specific settlements of the districts of Florina, Kozani and Grevena from the Region of Western Macedonia. These areas were either declared forced expropriation status, or considered geologically dangerous and insecure after landslides in June 2017 at the Amyntian mine of the West Macedonia lignite centre of PPC. Finally, the last article of the amendment extends the entry into force of taxation per gaming card on 12 July, an extension which is deemed necessary to avoid malfunctions in the information systems and to allow the necessary time to adapt them. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has taken a clean and strong mandate to make changes and reforms, to shape the conditions for dynamic and sustainable development. That mandate shall be implemented. The democratic legitimacy of the government is not called into question. On the contrary, it is confirmed and supported by a large majority of citizens supporting Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis two years after the election victory of the New Democracy. What everyone needs to realise, and especially the Civic Opposition, is that the country is not coming back. On the contrary, he looks forward to stability, security and determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u518	Does the parliamentary representatives want to clarify the amendment before I give the floor to the next speaker?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u519	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u520	Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u521	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, you have presented us with an amendment which has too many articles. Isn't that right? That's right, that's right. Late. At 3 p.m. today he had a Committee on Economic Affairs and started a process of drafting a bill by the Ministry of Finance. What is the reason why you are bringing it here late in a heavy bill, when you have all the opportunity for the committee responsible to discuss and consult? What's that? Omission? Bad legacy? So I would ask you to withdraw it. We've said enough here. There's no reason. To be deposited as provided for in the rules of good law in the committee responsible. Otherwise questions are being raised that have to do with other kinds of purposes. You want to surprise us? Do you want us not to know, not to know? You came to us on 22.10, while you are two hours here, to present us with an amendment which we do not know exactly what it is about. I would ask you, therefore, to withdraw it and give an answer to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u522	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u523	Mr President, I am very sorry, but this amendment has been tabled since Friday. I am very sorry that you say, as a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, that you do not know how many articles it has and what it is about. You would see that it relates to dates for deadlines which expire this month.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u524	Why didn't you put it in the relevant Commission?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u525	When the amendment was tabled, it was tabled because deadlines expire in that month. The extension of the period for 12 July shall expire on 30 June. The fact that the ship-supply tax had expired on 28 February and that extensions were given three times. It shall expire on 30 June. We had to legislate immediately. Please take a look at the articles. On Friday he was filed. Tomorrow's vote. It's a stay today. I sat here patiently. The President gave me the time and I supported the amendment. Please very much, if you saw the articles, you would understand that these articles had to be filed now and be the law of the state before 30 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u526	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u527	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u528	Wait a minute, please. You are not a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u529	A clarification of the amendment I would like to see.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u530	I understand that. You have the floor, but to clarify the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u531	Of course, Mr President, the amendment. This amendment deals with urgent matters. I would like, Minister, after the detailed presentation of only a few clarifications of Article 2 of the amendment. If I understood correctly, you are now saying that for private pleasure boats, a subject that employs hundreds of thousands of Greeks, as we know that more than four hundred thousand Greeks have such ships, many are still on hold, etc. - there is a tax on vessels up to seven metres at a rate of 0,5 % on the provisions of the '75 Act' and on vessels up to 12 metres of rate 1 on the provisions of the same law. I understand, in other words, that the tax on vessels up to seven metres will be set at around EUR 100 and for vessels up to EUR 12 metres per year. Because - if you wish - a large EUR 1000 tax had arisen from previous regulations and you understand the reasonable request of all these Greeks. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] The third thing I would like to ask you, apart from the tax on exactly how it is shaped, because from previous regulations the EUR 1000 tax was paid by some fellow citizens, will it be offset by other obligations? These three are the questions, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u532	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u533	Thank you, Mr President, for stressing how long the amendment had to be tabled. It is a timely amendment. He was tabled on Friday and must be voted on tomorrow. For Article 2 on the tax on private pleasure boats, the person you said in February 2021, Mr Skourletis, comes in this article and streamlines this tax certificate, which, regardless of measures by private pleasure boats, was charged 1000 euros. He's coming and what's he saying now? That for ships from zero to seven metres it will be calculated at a rate of 0,5 at a rate of two hundred that is the basis of the tax, so you very well understood that it is EUR 100 for vessels from zero to seven metres. For vessels from seven to twelve metres at a rate of EUR 1 to 200, it is EUR 200 and more than EUR 1000. This comes and rationalises one of those provisions which had to be tabled and voted on immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u534	Will those who paid?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u535	Of course, whoever paid until the law was passed, this tax will be offset or returned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u536	Thank you, Minister. We're continuing the process. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u537	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you continue to repeat once and for all that the government allegedly abolishes the eighth hour, and it is quite clear that this is not the case. You can explain to us where you saw this coming from and we could see it. But you also insist on it two things may mean. It can't mean anything else. A reasonable man, considering it, can't mean anything else. Either you haven't even read the bill, or you believe that in this way, with this propaganda and constantly repeating the same lie, something will succeed. I can't have another explanation. Isolated in your ideological bubble, you do not see the real challenges that today's worker faces and comes to respond to this bill, such as establishing the digital working card, which aims at real time controlling each employee's working hours. This is very important, very fair to people who work in the private sector at the moment, which you have not done. In fact, it is the guarantee of strict compliance with the timetable which you say we are going to abolish. In no case does that happen. It will make a significant contribution to avoiding unfair competition by companies that respect legislation from those applying black-working practices, which unfortunately exist and, in other words, lack resources from insurance and budget. The digital card is the key to the right of disconnection in teleworking, to set working time, to equate overtime to industry and services. Is this all backwards, as you say? Is paternity leave back for fourteen days? Is the regulation on teleworking with Greece to become the third country, after France and Spain, which regulates the right to disconnect workers? Is it a step backward, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to strengthen the institutional framework for violence and harassment at work? For which I am passing away, you as government have done absolutely nothing. Is it medium-term, as colleagues of the Communist Party of Greece say, which is currently not here, the introduction of the electronic vote? They say that the possibility of a remote electronic vote is undermining the procedures. What you say and what they say is the definition of technology. You have to understand that. And you're talking about middle ages. Seriously, can you talk about middle ages? On the left you are now advocating the most conservative, the most technophobic and reactionary. And you still think you're representing progress? At some point we need to understand what it means to be progressive, what it means to be conservative and put things back in order because I think you're not well aware. In essence, however, your practice reminds you of the Ludites of the 19th century, if you remember well, who were rebelling against the technological achievements at the time, and who turned against the estimating of craft production. You may not destroy machines at the moment, as the Louises did at that time, but in every way you are trying to keep society and the country stagnant, trying to channel to this dreadfulness of your modern developments and challenges tomorrow. But the reality will pass you over and it will make you understand that once again your practices, your messages, your political positions are out of place and time. I am finishing very quickly, ladies and gentlemen. SYRIZA has been in the bars all over the past few weeks compared to this bill. I, in fact, have worked and continue to work in the private sector for too many years, I think it is a bill that strengthens workers, protects workers, embraces workers, bends over workers' problems. I don't see why you're supposed to be the bars. I do not see why there should be roads in the center of Athens with red flags. I really cannot understand why all of us want to harmonize ourselves with Western culture with the new technologies, with the new era that opens up before us, I cannot understand why you are in the bars all this time. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you are being held strong in ideas of the '80s by ignoring the modern international reality and the parameters it has. I have spoken to you, for example, about the extension of teleworking. It's a new reality. It was the coroner who gave us the opportunity to develop teleworking. But we did. It's a new reality and you need to be in line with this new reality and don't back off. The smell of naphthalene should not follow you until the end of your political life. For God's sake. You should be in line with the new logic. We have new children who need to live a better future. A new reality is taking place before them. Let's help them. To help the workers. We don't want the bad of the workers. I shall conclude, Mr President. So knowing that what you're saying really has a Naphthalene smell you choose to sprinkle your deep conservative speech eventually with a make news that has become your second nature. I would remind you that in SYRIZA you were electorally saying "do not vote for Kyriakos Mitsotakis, do not vote for the New Democracy because when the New Democracy comes, it will fire the public". That's what you said all the time and you were trying to terrorize public sector employees. But for your bad luck, not only did we not fire the public, but instead we strengthened the public where it was required. It's really sad and also terribly revealing because you can now wear the cloak of the progressive and revolutionary but in fact you are deeply reactionary to any change. That's what I had to tell you. You really give the opportunity to people who work in the private sector, to your voters, to the people who believe you, at least to recognise the reality and not to confuse them with things that do not concern this bill. Be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u538	Thank you very much for the time. Mrs Dionysia Agrinopoulou has the floor now from New Democracy. I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are still thirty-seven colleagues to speak. You can understand that once the last speakers have complied with the time they will speak around 2: 30-3: 00 in the morning. That is why I ask you to be consistent in time. You're welcome, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u539	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are discussing today gives the worker the freedom to establish with his employer his time and working conditions. It strengthens the supervisory bodies of employers themselves and upgrades the Labour Inspectorate as an independent administrative authority. It ratifys two very important contracts of work, Convention 187 of the International Labour Organisation to promote safety and health at work and Convention 190 to eliminate violence and harassment in the world of work. It further harmonizes Greek Labour Law with European Union rules. This introduces a broad and substantial ban on misuse of power as all forms of violence and harassment manifested during work are banned, whether linked to it or resulting from it, including violence and sexual harassment due to sex and sexual harassment. New procedures shall be introduced according to the size of the undertaking to examine these complaints in such a way as to ensure the protection of the victim and respect for human dignity. It is also recommended in the Labour Inspectorate that a separate section be set up to monitor the effects of violence and harassment at work and to keep an employer register against which an administrative penalty has been imposed for violating the ban on violence and harassment at work. The equality bill it introduces for enterprises takes a step further by contributing to the elimination of discrimination on grounds of sex and by strengthening employers' behaviour which respects the equality of workers. It creates an even stronger foundation, a healthy and fair environment for women who, even today, have not been able to enjoy equal conditions on the labour market, despite the fact that we are not only as capable but also sometimes having a higher level of education and qualifications. Nevertheless, we still enjoy wages below our qualifications and less opportunities to develop in our careers. The wager of women's balanced participation in management positions in particular in enterprises is not only a woman's own bet but a social and economic bet. In a financial performance study carried out in enterprises from all over the Greek economy for 2019, women in management positions exceed 10 key financial indicators: in indicators of profitability, efficiency indicators and capital structure indicators. It is therefore a bet that we need to win both for ourselves and for our businesses and our national economy in particular. And this bill helps us to that end. Furthermore, the draft law provides for the proper application of the health and safety measures of workers and strengthens the institution of the occupational physician. The doctrine which the Government of New Democracy has demonstrated and which, in practice, serves faithfully above all health, now also applies in the workplace. Very important is the incorporation of the European Union Directive 2019/1158 on the balance between professional and private life for parents and caregivers. The bill lays down minimum requirements to achieve the predicted equality between men and women in terms of opportunities in the labour market and in the workplace, even by facilitating the combination of working and family life for parents. The right to paternity leave of fourteen days shall be regulated, which shall be obtained at the birth of the child. The legislator takes into account the needs of the modern father to be also close to his children and to enjoy paternity, especially in the precious days along with his newborn baby or new child in the family, in the case of having a child with adoption. It is introduced for both parents a four-month parental leave to be taken until the child closes his eight years and additional child-care leave is also entitled, as well as reduced working hours for the parents of young children, as well as for children with disabilities and other family-related leave. So both parents will be able to contribute substantially to raising their children and respond both to their children’s practices and mental needs. There is provision for single parent families as well. Very important is the article regulating flexible working conditions. According to this, every child worker aged up to 12 years or caregiver is entitled to request flexible work arrangements for care purposes, such as teleworking, flexible working hours or part-time. The employer must expressly justify the rejection of the request or any deferral of flexible working arrangements to the parents and caregivers. There are no more friendly arrangements than these. Finally, forty hours a week are even more guaranteed by the digital working card. The choice of a free day facilitates the professional and family life of workers and is fully compatible with the provisions in force, collective agreements and arbitration decisions. And teleworking has now been seen in practice how useful it can be either pandemic or hopefully in normal conditions, and it has indeed been time to institutionalise. This is a bill that meets the current needs of the workers and shields their rights, improves their working conditions and quality of life and deserves to be voted in favour of and adopted in the interests of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u540	Thank you for the time too. We continue with Mrs. Anagnastopoulou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u541	Thank you, Mr President. After forensics, we learned another word, technophobia. All we have not yet learned is what this government promised, the security of citizens, to feel safe. And in the workplace we see it's in the same direction as everything else. Full insecurity. We have heard these two days and we hear that we have a progressive, reformative bill, section etc. One question: why is the opposition abundant, why is the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, why is the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, why is the National Authority for Human Rights, why all the trade unions, why is the whole of the people against this bill? Why all these committees, why all the trade unions, are we all shouting that the core of labour law is being abolished? And who's that? It's the eighth hour that he could enlist the eighth hour. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy you say - you have probably given yourself a ready-made paper, I cannot understand - how modern you are and how retrograde we are. You haven't read right. You do not know the history of this country, of the labour movement, of our society or of European societies. I'm reading something to keep it in mind, because this battle is not today. It's been too many decades. Do you know what the President of the relevant BSE in 1922 said when the country had to implement the eighth hour? It took many decades until it was implemented. He said, therefore, that the competitiveness of enterprises will be affected and that it will be recovered, that growth will be reduced by 20%. That is why it must not be done, that the eighth should be implemented. What was the power given to workers under Labour Law? Because you don't know them right, you haven't read anything, you haven't. What all mankind knows - and the greatest Thucydides has said for many years - is that there is no fair between possible and impossible. So societies have taken care, with infinite struggles, to strengthen the law of the impossible. And how did they do that? Collective conventions, strikes, unionism. These were so that they could make sure that they were right. What's Mr. Hatzidakis doing here? Not only an abortion is this bill, but it must be ashamed that it will leave its signature under it in history. What's he doing? And it does not stop the eight hours, but removes all the weapons which have poured the only one: the time does not have him monopolistic in his hands, but the workers can also have time. And how would we have that? What were the locks? The collective agreements. This is where we hear infinitely crazy. The other will go to the employer and tell him "I'll work two hours longer and give me the day off sometime when I go to pick up my olives." Are we kidding? Are you making fun of Greek society? You take the thread from a past - which is, of course, far behind in 1982, this man, the President of the '22s' BSE group, to organize the future of the new generation. So we take the thread from elsewhere to organize the future of the new generation otherwise. Because that's where the whole fight is going. We're afraid, Mr. Callian told us about the technology. As the eighth hour began, there was a need after two world wars, after infinite labour claims. And always the war. You say '82 is rusty', 'the law of '82'. You forget that from '82 until today the battle was lasting and continuous. He didn't stop by '82 with the law. The law barely gave weapons, but the employer never stopped wanting to undermine the law itself and remove weapons. Hence strikes. That's a huge thing. It is undemocratic what you are doing with the union and with the strikes. The conciliation of institutions with the road is the epic of democracy. Societies have that power. You're going to remove it now, pulling things out. So you say we're afraid of technology. We barely want technology in favour of workers. Do you know what technology means? The Fourth Industrial Revolution is that the value, the goodwill of the worker's work is increasing very much. It is therefore necessary and necessary that we as the Left should ask for it and claim it. A reduction in working hours with the same wages, of course. This means that this overworking, goodwill should not only go to the employer. That means a fourth industrial revolution that you say we do not know. We know much better than you do. You're even abolishing Sunday's holiday. I'm laughing for a reason. The NewTurks in the Ottoman Empire were pressed by the Christian communities to establish the Sunday holiday when it was established throughout Europe. Yes, don't do that, Mr. Marcopoulou, read a book, it'll do you good. So you said about the digital card, paternity leave, father's assurance for six months from the child's birth, etc. But then, does father stop being a father? I have this question, since you're undermining the eighth, and redundancies are making it easy. Does he stop being a father? I would refer you all to the conclusion of the parliamentary intergroup on demographics, which you signed, what scientists from Sweden have said - because you are Europeans too - and from France: labour stability, increased wages, public structures. That's the key.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u542	Mrs. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u543	I'll be right over. The first public redundancies were made for political persecution by the Ministry of Culture. And even by abolishing a provision that the New Democracy had passed. And I'm hanging up with one thing. Yes, with red flags we will be on the strike tomorrow because this bill will not be implemented in practice because such bills cannot be implemented. Thank you very much and I apologise, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u544	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have told you that as long as everyone gets there by 4.00 a.m. at dawn. Please be in time. Mr Mouzalas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u545	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will come out of this and use my gynecologist status. I would like to talk to you about the vulnerability of the conference on Fertility, my ears, this incredible irritability in medicine science, which was not done in the end because of social reactions. The fact that it has not taken place shows that our society is vigilant in safeguarding its rights. But the fact that he tried to do it and that he had this undivided coverage of the government, including the Presidency of the Republic and the Church, shows that the Greek society is in danger. It wasn't a scientific conference. A merchandise went to stand. A conference on medicine was set up, a conference on the manipulation of consciences, the institutionalisation of stereotypes of the last century, the marketing of science. This conference is the neoliberal view of medicine. There are two medical, ladies and gentlemen, medicine that examines the kidney as a research subject, examines the kidney patient as a research subject and examines healthy as a research subject. And there's medicine where the kidney looks as a research subject, but the kidney patient and the healthy one are subject and involved in the study. These two meds have been in a struggle with each other for too many years now. The medicine where the patient is not subject to investigation, but is subject and involved, was first taught by Asclepius and Hippocrates. It has lost ground between the two wars, regaining ground in recent years, although the trade in health has been trying, and where there are neoliberal regimes such as the one built in our country, to promote and alter it. So the medicine we impart is healing or comforting. There's no other reason. It's a holistic medicine that heals, and when he can't heal, he comforts. The medicine of neoliberalism is a good medicine that also cures, not comforts, but punishes. And I would like to remind you that 15 years ago a very big debate had begun from this medicine of neoliberalism, inhuman medicine, as to whether cardiopaths or heartworm smokers should be subjected to public care, or whether they should be banned from the public. That's what happened at this conference. It's not only the spot, I imagine most people saw it, the spot is the tip of the iceberg, but it's the participants. The participants point to two things. There was an exaggerated presence of the church at the highest level. It was an opportunity, through this neoliberal view, in addition to health trade, health punishment, stereotypes from the last century as today's truths and to remove rights in principle from women. What else was the presence of all these priests? And I am not personally referring to what can be represented by each of them. It was a commercial trick, because those who organized the conference participated to an extent, I mean financially, with a story called medical tourism and through this conference tried to attract customers from our Orthodox neighbouring countries and from Russia, given - and I will refer to it by end - that Greece has a scientifically high level of medicine in artificial fertilisation and wanted to make use of the church to attract customers. The fact that the church fell into it or tried to take advantage of it to show its own models is something that the church should solve. The Minister of Tourism of Romania and the Commander of Mount Athos for Fertility participated. Watch out, they talked about the subterranean woman. My fellow gynecologists in our majority never refer to the infertile woman or the infertile man. Our science refers to the infertile couple. The same scientists who organised this conference - which is not too many, if you see in it the doctors are few - have done artificial fertilization in homogeneous couples, have done artificial fertilisation with foreign sperm, have done artificial fertilization in adjacent uterus, have done artificial fertilisation with foreign ova, and have done well, but they have done, but they have done the model of the nuclear family - at the same time as they have helped homogeneous couples, single-parent families in choice - as the absolute truth to which we must submit. In order for the neoliberal view of medicine to work on fertility, the woman must be hit. So the woman becomes a target, but it is the means to strike the freedoms, to hit the medicine that comforts and heals. The emancipation of women, economic and sexual, has caused huge overthrows in society and we are still at the beginning of this emancipation. We therefore have a medicine that trades itself instead of seeing how it can help in these changes that have taken place in society, trying to punish itself to insult and swear. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The last objective - and I shall end, Mr President, in a second - which we shall soon meet before him is abortion and abortion. Whatever it is about harming the possibility of a woman in self-determination, it is a neoliberal option that this government supports her either through her Vice-President leading the unborn child's club or through such meetings.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u546	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u547	I'm done, Mr. President. I would like to end the women who are listening to us. There was this incident that was too bad. However, this incident should not tarnish the science of artificial fertilization within them. It is at very high levels in Greece. The legislation that governs it even though New Democracy has tried to make its rubbish - you remember those who were MPs here - is one of the most progressive in Europe, to continue to trust science. Let them choose the scientists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u548	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Kamine from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u549	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating overturns a number of traditional labour law protection regulations in order - as the government says - to adapt legislation to modern reality. The real scope of this adjustment will be assessed over time. But from the point of view of workers' rights, we can already say that the bill undermines the two traditional pillars of protection. One is state-owned, the job inspection. The other pillar is social, the trade unions of workers. With regard to the conversion of work into an independent body of the Ministry of Labour, we can say that the fact that a public service is baptised independently does not necessarily mean that it is translated into an authority that does not obey the orders or inducements of the government. Here, as in most independent authorities not included among the five constitutionally guaranteed members, the appointment of its members depends directly or indirectly on the government. That doesn't surprise anyone anymore. Why? Because you of the government majority with the latest Constitutional Review have even achieved the five constitutionally guaranteed independent authorities to weaken them, since you have reduced the majority required by the Constitution to show their members. That is why we voted against this change in Article 101a of the Constitution. By converting the Labour Inspectorate into an independent authority what you are aiming at is, in fact, to dismiss your responsibility, since we all know that parliamentary control over the independent authorities is weak to nonexistent. In short, in order to monitor the implementation of labour legislation by the state, you wash your hands by charging responsibility to an authority which will neither be effective. Because the problem of the Labour Inspectorate, which will inherit it and the independent authority provided for in the bill, is the lack of resources, materials and especially human resources. In other words, if the same policy of subscribing the Labour Inspectorate continues, it will be counterbalanced by a priori, any unreadable advantage of converting it into an independent authority. Mr Hatzidakis' arguments in this Chamber would be unbelievable to me at least if he made a clear and unequivocal commitment here to the fact that he would proceed to a brave staffing of the independent authority. I never heard of that. So what we will reasonably expect, what we can expect is that we will have one of the same, a Labour Inspectorate in fact weakened. Here is one of the keys to the bill, because it abolishes a number of other protective provisions on the grounds that they contravene modern requirements for more flexible labour relations. Even if this is true, the legislator is obliged to take the flexibility it introduces to compensate for it with strong and effective control mechanisms. Abuses and abuses in the field of Labour Law in general are often obsolete. Because the relationship between a worker and an employer is inherently unequal. Inequality sometimes covered by an independent service contract, but it actually hides a contract of employment. For example, it tells us indirectly but very clearly in its very careful way the Scientific Agency report on the contractual relations between digital platforms and service providers. There it is pointed out that the standard contract terms for the provision of independent services are often misleading, because they in practice cover up work-related relationships. In the face of these businesses, many of which are powerful, need a strong and effective Labour Inspectorate. But we are not in a suspicious way dealing only with the masking of the Labour Inspectorate to an independent authority. We are equally concerned by those provisions which undermine labour solidarity by depriving the worker of the organized collective solidarity of his colleagues. See, for example, the provision of Article 59 that regulates the famous work arrangement and is indicative in two respects. First of all, because it circumvents the institution of the collective agreement and allows the settlement system to be applied after a written individual agreement. Secondly, because, for some unexplained reason, this agreement is not provided for in the ERGAN system to be known to the audit authorities. It is worth admiring that, within a single regulation and with such a simple wording, the government manages, at the same time, to weaken both the protection of the State towards the worker and the collective autonomy of its colleagues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end here, Mr President, because in any case time is not enough. But you will allow me this final comment because I believe that right there - as I said - is the key to this bill. He's got a lot of positive arrangements. In many respects, too, flexibility in work is desirable. It is also desirable to modernise the economy and because many workers want it too. However, in order to enable this flexibility to function in practice without disrupting working relationships and protecting the weakest part, which are workers, we need strong control institutions and protection of the collective autonomy of workers. And this, in this bill, we don't see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u550	Thank you for the time too. We are now continuing with Mr Bartzokas from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u551	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, moving towards the end of the debate on the new employment bill and the number of provisions in detail can no longer be seen and commented on the trend, particularly of the Officerial Response, to the dispersion of false news. You insist on the word "fake news", a term that was officially introduced in the Collins Dictionary in 2016 to make it timely in our country. You have brought him to your flag and let me say that you tend to identify him with your worthy horizon. You're systematically dispersing lies. And I could focus on an endless brand de fer, presenting every lie, every distortion of reality, in which you have suffered all this time to encroach on the bill, the "mother of your battles". I would, however, prefer not to spend any use on this pointless burden of power, but rather to address every employee who is watching us by telling him that the labour bill not only does not weaken his position and his rights, but does exactly the opposite. It strengthens work, strengthens his rights, reconciles work with family. So I first come to the settlement, the institution that has been in force under the collective agreements for thirty years and provides for the agreement between the employer and the worker to redistribute working time. They've heard a million lies about the settlement. But the truth is only one. The only thing that changes this bill is the extension of this possibility to individual contracts. From now on, a worker who is bound by an individual contract of employment may agree with his employer that within a period of one year and for a period of six months - take note of this, once only in advance - to work more than forty hours a week by taking this surplus on extra leave. Well, let's get this straight. This is not an arrangement when the employer comes to the worker asking him to remain in his work at any time, invoking exceptional circumstances. This is overtime and will be paid as overtime with the legal increase. And to be quite clear, because it is normal in the context of any reform, that the worker, the citizen, should experience anxiety and concern about the removal of his rights. The bill is clear. In the event of an unlawful settlement or of unpaid overtime, the claim of which leads to an abusive dismissal, on the grounds of the employer's usual vengeance, has now been reinforced by law. It is now explicitly and clearly predicted that if a worker is made redundant for claiming his rights, the dismissal will be invalid. To understand the importance of Article 66, the great importance for the protection of workers must be focused on express provision for so-called reversal of the burden of proof. If, therefore, the worker bases on the facts on which the abusive dismissal may take place, the burden is now on the employer to prove that the dismissal was not made for the contested reason. And many people know that the vast majority of redundancies are unfortunately due to vengeance. So we all realize that the safeguarding of the bill really protects the worker. I am now going to the other great weapon of protecting work, which is first set up by Article 74, the digital working card. Each undertaking is henceforth obliged to operate an electronic system, which will record the actual working time and which will function directly with the Ministry of Labour's information system. What does this practically mean to the worker and how does this relate to his support? It means that every hour of work is declared and real-timed in the Ministry of Labour's system and can be cross-checked by the Labour Inspectorate, the now upgraded House, as it becomes an independent authority. Any infringement of undeclared work carries a very high fine. Therefore, no more pretexts and excuses of the employer, no more and the scourge of unpaid overtime, clean and clean. Here too, I should like to make a point about the criticisms we accept in relation to the conversion of the Labour Inspectorate into an independent authority. It sounds a lot, but the truth is only one. The establishment of the Labour Inspectorate as an independent body, with personal and operational independence of its staff and all the guarantees of an independent authority means only one thing, that no one here or now can raise the phone to intervene in a breach for the benefit of the company and against the worker. It's over and over! I want to close up talking about people working as a delibery. I don't need to talk about offering all these people all this time of pandemic. Invisible workers have often acquired a perceptible position, and we have unfortunately not done what is needed to thank them. But this bill for the first time sees them. For the first time, we are making a clear distinction, based on the criteria of the Court of Justice of the European Union as to when their contract of employment is a contract of employment or an independent service. We recognise the self-employed respective trade union rights, unions, strikes, collective agreements and provide for increased safety and hygiene rules for these workers. Ladies and gentlemen, we are looking into the future of work and looking into it in the eyes. We can't watch tomorrow with yesterday's glance, with yesterday's tools. We have to adjust them, because otherwise we will be stuck in the past when our world runs ahead. We must then adapt institutionally, and this bill takes the big step, making the institutional adjustment required in the workplace. So let us give up our party defiances and vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u552	Thank you very much for the time and I hope that we will all continue this way. Mr. Xanthos has the floor from SYRIZA. I would ask you, Mr President, to be in time too so that we can proceed with the procedure. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u553	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been following the debate for hours now. I'm really impressed by your enterprising rhetoric. So much to talk about the rights and needs of the working world, the dignity of workers, how much you will protect them with this bill, I really have been impressed. And on the left, saying that we are conservative, anachronists, we defend the old, while you bring progress, modernisation and prosperity. Soon you will tell us that you are legislating to abolish the exploitation of human beings! That's what you're going to tell us. But the question, ladies and gentlemen, is this. Why doesn't anyone believe you? Why doesn't anyone believe you? Why are you so tragicly isolated, socially and politically in this bill? That is the crucial question and of course the answer is very simple. Because people know who you really are, they know very well that in this eternal conflict over time in society between capital and work they know who you are. In the big classes, he knows who you are. He knows that you are not with the weak, but with the business elites, with the powerful and all these interests you are rushing to legislate and adopt, people from the Association of Greek Industrialists, his executives you have taken and put in your Government and have top roles right now. So what does the world not understand? And what credibility do all that you've been telling us for so many days? So I think that's the essence of the matter. Ideologically, you are in inequality. The Prime Minister directly said: "Inequality promotes the movement of history, bring progress, it is the natural order of things. It's a law of modern life. It is contrary to human nature.’ That's what Mr. Mitsotakis said. So who will believe that you are legislating to reduce inequalities and establish equality and social justice? And this is, of course, the real dividing line between progressive and conservative political plans, programmes, parties, forces, etc. At a time when society's health insecurity is generally insecure, first of all, for work, for income, for survival, you bring in legislation that causes insecurity, precariousness, uncertainty and the lifting of guarantees. This timely demand for the employer to reduce the negotiating power of the world of work is now being legislated. So you are firing into the crisis the health, economic and social that we live most insecurity in the world. And now, do you really think the relationship and cooperation between the employer and the worker can be equal, that the negotiation and adjustment of working time can be carried out on an individual basis? Do you not understand that in this social relationship the weak link, the structurally weak link is the worker? Do you really think that this story of the evolution of the APRC into an independent authority strengthens the control mechanisms of the country? What does an independent authority mean? It means depopulation. It is not the responsibility of the state, state, ministries and supervised bodies to monitor compliance with labour law. You legislate and put this in an independent authority, which has a state autonomy, by the social partners. Can I tell you what happened when the JHA, the Health Inspectors' Corps, lost its autonomous status and joined the independent national transparency authority? He stopped doing checks on health services and the public and private sectors in particular. She stopped having findings. He stopped making convoys. His real role has been mutated. And it is now currently dealing with monitoring the application of the anti-smoking law and whether the distances to the tables are maintained. That's what she does. Today the JHA has lost its know-how because it does not have the political will to intervene and control a field that we know there are illegal behaviours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u554	Controls keep doing it all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u555	Yeah. So all this leads to the strengthening of a framework of arbitrariness and immunity in the workplace. We will also have an increase in working time and overtime in many unpaid and redundancies facilitated and all that has been explained. And over-working, the increase in working time - Mr Pafilis also mentioned it - has now been proven and the World Health Organisation says that on a weekly basis it is a global public health problem, causing serious side effects of psychosomatics on humans. So if you really want to improve productivity, because it is what you are cutting, you need to upgrade occupational medicine, the mechanisms for controlling the health and safety of work at the workplace - these are the great lessons of the pandemic - environmental health and mental health of workers. These are the critical conditions: the conditions, the working environment and, of course, the remuneration. In other words, invest in human capital rather than do the favors of capital. And I'm hanging up with the last one. So you're laughed at if you think that, because there's a difficult pandemic treaty and because you have all this communication superiority, support from the media, etc., all these structural anti-social interventions will go through without opening a nose. I think you've got a deep laugh. And can I tell you something? We really will not allow - but not just us, I believe the whole society - to turn a public health crisis into a crisis of rights, social cohesion and democracy. I think that the project of the new era is less work, work for all, work with quality, with dignity, with respect for rights. This is the nuclear element of a new social contract that can serve it by progressive governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u556	Thank you. Please, too much for time. Mr Markopoulos has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u557	I heard Mr Blonde, ladies and gentlemen, a moment ago and I remembered what Melina Mercouri said in 1989 - I always use the pluralist, but the phrase was in the native - 'Andreas, we don't like it, take the ham'. And you don't like it, do you know why, Mr. Xanthi? You don't like it because you're not convinced, because you're working a little bit too much as a tweaker of the union movement. Athens - I remember the old Savvopoulou song "the square was filled with the meaning of something from the fires" - you know why it was filled with the previous days of mobilization? It was full of the world's cars that went to work. And that's because they know exactly what your role is. You're trying to evolve into the trade union movement cocktails. You think your country is your trade union, estate and dowry. So we will tell you that there is no such thing. I hear you say 'The bill will fall on the streets'. We have voted on all of this, and we have a large majority. Don't forget that. I remember a very nice movie, because I like European cinema, "Work class goes to heaven". It was an excellent film with Gian Maria Volodeer, who essentially criticised at a left-wing look at all that you on the streets, the controversial trade unionists, criticism of the controversial communist left, criticism of the way some people saw and had viewpoints about things. For that very reason, the working class is coming to speak of this bill. And explain. Employers' equation with employees. Since 1974 a request. You didn't. We're doing it. Increase overtime for workers from ninety - six hours for both employees from an hundred and twenty hours to fifty. You probably wouldn't have made it. You were going to do it. Four and a half years was hard. You can't make it. We can do it. Digital card for the worker, the worker at the shipyard and industry, so that we can control, no lost overtime, black work. I guess you didn't make it there. It's okay, we'll make it. So people know you. Political mediators don't need to. Let me tell you something else. What was the face of your proposal? Mr. Tsiprassalamakitchet was with Mr. Nikos Fotopoulou. You're older than the old one. You live in the Paleolithic era. And because you're so much tired - SYRIZA is the working party - to ask you something. At PITSOS, when its three hundred employees in the Renaissance region sent two letters to the Prime Minister then Alexis Tsipras in 2016, they say so, I do not say it - and they did not receive a reply to the fate of their factory, what was it? What did you do? Who saved these jobs? The government of Mitsotakis saved them with coordinated actions. So you live in the Paleolithic era. As the young people say, 'be elsewhere'. You talk like we're in 1930. Do you know what you want? You don't want a hard worker. You want privileged trade unions, trade unions that dismiss the average citizen, the average worker. And I do not deceive the trade union movement as a whole of being clean in it. To say this also with the communist clay, it is 'needed', we need it. However, it is sadistic what is often done by organised minorities. You failed the strike, and that's what it looked like. Even the children and parents who are anxious tomorrow about the exams toward them you put them. Fake news everywhere. BSE says - it's behind this bill. What BSE? BSE made comments and criticisms about this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u558	Scorch.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u559	Scorch? May I remind you of the photos of Alexis Tsiprassette with all the presidents of BSE?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u560	I'll remind you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u561	Then Mr. Tsipras was on the streets for the struggles. The BSE suits were good at the time. It's a reality that's rooting for you. I heard before Mrs Anagnostopoulou about the market on Sunday. I'm sorry, didn't the market work on SYRIZA on Sunday? Are you going to drive us crazy? "How much you want to drive us crazy," the youth also says. So since you were so charitable, I cannot understand why, for four and a half years, you 'employers' have not regulated overtime with a bill. Since you wanted to save the working class, why do you continue to separate a worker with the worker? You leftists, why didn't you make the digital card after you're cut and you're so fighters? For parental leave, why didn't you intervene? So you can answer us why you refuse to intervene against sexual harassment at the workplace? Why, obviously, did you remember what had happened, the cover-up of the case with the Venezuelan ambassador? Do you have these recently? The trade union movement, therefore, will either be massive and unbundled or will be devalued. What do you want, financed by other sources, so actually riding around? You want privileged workers. We want privileged workers and trade unions serving them, not trade unions privileged and workers serving trade unions. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing down, I have to say that the project time has come rather than the reasons. The Left, stuck in the past, cannot talk - that is clear - with the 21st digital century. The Middle Ages, then, denounced by the Opposition, is not the current bill. The middle age is what you are serving. The middle ages lie in your mind, in your ideology, in your ideology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u562	We're continuing with Mrs. SYRIZA. Please, my colleague, be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u563	Mr Marcopoulou, if the future that you are planning and which you are bringing, in particular in this bill, is the future of endless forces of unemployed people operating as reserves and new precariatte with the three and sixty, thank you very much, not only us MPs and MPs of the SYRIZA, but not all this world that just protested in the streets. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are debating today, of course, and which does not come from heaven, does not come from beyond. It is based on specific principles and neoliberal values. Let me remind you of some. The current Prime Minister, when in charge of the opposition officer, met with Kos businessmen. When an entrepreneur and an employer told him that "it is enough with this six-day job to go to our seven-day work tomorrow, to flexible work, no longer with this suffering of the checks that the SYRIZA government has condemned us", then the Chief of the opposition officer Mitsotakis found nothing more than to say that "The New Democracy will sweep every obstacle that prevents entrepreneurship". The second very interesting element that Mr Mitsotakis has already promised to the employers of Kos, and not only is that according to the philosophy of the New Democracy, in the relationship between an employer and a worker, the State should not interfere with its regulatory authorities and with the audit bodies. That's why he said in 2017 at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, again for word, that he “does not have delusionality about a society without inequality. This, society without inequality, is contrary to human nature." Therefore, for Mr Mitsotakis and his Government, any attempt to alleviate social and class inequalities, the closure of the social shear, is nothing natural, it is not something that a democratic governance of the place must seek. Some parts of the bill. I would like, clearly, to thank the Minister of Labour or rather the Minister of Overworking, exhaustive work, the removal of eight hours, but also of whatever working hours, the Minister for the Elimination of collective agreements, because it introduces with this draft law, apart from the rest, the waste hour to the semi-employed worker. Let's take the case of a worker in a warehouse or a supermarket worker. They've been hired for four hours. This is shown on their contract of employment. These workers will be working four hours, there will be three hours of break, and after three hours they will return to work for another four hours of work. If these workers are now working in the center of Athens and their residence is in Peristeri, what to do, these are happening in life, they will eat, they will lie down and sleep in the house in the workplace itself. Is this the case, ladies and gentlemen, already today? That's more likely after the bill was passed. Minister, I don't know if you've read the project "Barba Thomas' cabin". If you've read it, you probably haven't learned enough. The workers, too, want to thank you and the fact that you are increasing the overtime limit, many of whom will be unpaid or rather paid off on the basis of a free agreement, an individual employee's agreement with the employer, and so at the same time you are reducing his compensation for the benefit of a worker and doubling the number of legal overtime at 50. For this regulation you are most grateful and twenty to forty thousand unemployed who will never be hired under the specific provision of the bill. Thanks also to the fact that Article 58(6) provides for overtime and over a hundred and fifty hours in direct consultation, of course, with whom else? The employer with the Ministry. The worker, of course, does not exist anywhere again. The workers and workers, however, thank you very much for the individual contracts of employment. As workers and workers, we must also be extremely pleased and pleased that this bill force us to work for twelve hours, eight hours so far plus overtime plus three hours, Article 58, which, on the basis of what you say to us, will be received and worked by the worker if he wants to do so. If he doesn't want to, the employer will hit him friendlyly on his back and he will say to him: "Yes, my child, yes, brother, whenever you want to work, whenever you want to come to work and for all the other good heart we have, whatever you want from there and from there, let the old bell go." You are also right to abolish the worker's right to re-entry in the event of void dismissal, you are right to predict that the unjustly dismissal will no longer take the pay for late payment, as you have been right for many months, not you, your predecessor, Mr Brutsis, the legitimate reason for dismissal. Because how else would the redundancies be released? I fully agree with you that the employer should have the absolute right to recruit those who want, with whatever wage he wants, to dismiss them whenever he wants and to dismiss them whenever he wants and even impose them on them unpaid leave for a whole year, as is rightly stated in your bill. The workers and the workers and, of course, the small and medium-sized enterprises thank you very much, because in Article 63 you are so widening the list of enterprises where Sunday holidays will not apply, that we can hardly imagine a couple of activities that will not be open on Sunday. Finally, Minister, I would like to express my complete admiration for the fact that in this draft law you are limiting so much all trade liberties and the right to strike so that your strong desire to eliminate them is absolutely visible. I propose to a next bill not only that you impose the civil responsibility of the trade unionists, but that we recommend that the undersubstantiated trade unionists should probably be closed in prison as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u564	Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u565	In short, Minister, this draft law is deeply authoritarian, anti-social, so that no correction can be made at all. Just as you tabled it, you should withdraw it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u566	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr. Kontogeorgios. If I understand correctly, there's been a change and it's in Mr. Bukkoru's place. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u567	He'll be right back. He won't lose his turn. He's out there somewhere and he's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u568	No way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u569	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, while following all these days in both the Standing Committee on Social Affairs and in plenary the debate on the draft law on the protection of work, I do not hide from you that I am once again fully disappointed by the behaviour and positions of counter-population. It demonstrates its attitude and actions that it does not understand the extent of its responsibility towards society and the country, in a country that in the past decade has passed the Symposia of Memorandums, but also for the foolish experimentation of left magicians, in a country where its citizens' incomes have been brought to bear by the tax-fixing policies of the Government "First-left" and their sprayed associates, in a country that is still at the beginning of the end of the response of the CIVID 19 murder pandemic. One would expect at least more serious and responsible behaviour from the Vice-Presidents and, in particular, the Officerial Representation in the parliamentary process of voting on the institutional arrangements necessary for the modernisation and progress of the country and its citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we have been debating these days is a necessary instrument for modernising and updating labour legislation, which has been in place since the 1980s and some of its chapters since the 1960s and 1920s. It aims, on the one hand, at Greece's production and prosperity, which is attractive to new investment in reducing unemployment by the necessary regulations in labour law, taking into account modern economic and technological developments and, on the other, on strengthening social cohesion by protecting labour, restoring injustices and dealing with problems of today's social reality. It integrates the Convention 187 of the International Labour Organisation for Health and Safety at Work and the good practices of developed countries of the European Union. It establishes the digital working card to combat undeclared overtime work and tax evasion. It upgrades the Labour Inspectorate to an independent authority, excluding possible political interventions in labour market control. It introduces a series of new permits which contribute to equal treatment for men and women. It introduces anti-violence and harassment measures at work with the incorporation of the Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation. It introduces a framework for the protection of trade union rights for workers on digital platforms, which acquire rights comparable to workers under a contract of conditional employment. It equates the remuneration of workers to those of employees due to dismissal. It regulates teleworking following an agreement between employers and employees. It increases the threshold for permitted overtime on the European average. It introduces flexible working hours. It introduces as an alternative and the adjustment of working time, an institution that has been in place throughout Europe for thirty years. It shall fully reserve the eighth hour of work, in accordance with Article 55. It expands the list of cases of invalid dismissal. It opens up the labour market on Sundays at an additional 75% fee in logistics, data center, nursing material and pharmaceutical industries. It provides for the digital transformation of the labour market monitoring system ‘ERGAN II’ or ECA of Labour Inspectorate, OAED for the necessary cross-checks. It modernises the framework for the functioning of trade unions and trade unions. It equates trade union protection to that of pregnant women. It establishes civil liability for the trade unions who practice violence and act illegally during the strikes. It prohibits the reopening of a strike judged illegal by the judiciary by the secondary and tertiary trade union organisation and which suppresses the place. It protects the community as a whole from strike mobilisations in common advantage through the obligation to provide a guaranteed service to one third of the usual. It introduces a series of measures on transparency into trade unionism. It establishes a ban on the financial support of trade unions by employers and parties, ensuring transparency in their operation. Ladies and gentlemen, these arrangements which, in our view, equate our country with the most developed countries in Europe and the world, are rampant, especially the Civilian Opposition. This is a counter-population below the circumstances, which cries out as a crowd of fields and deplores the government that it abolishes eight hours in a country of the core of the European Union that is in force. With false dilemmas, after she has not been exploited by the victims of the COVID -19 pandemic, she is trying to create a turmoil, protecting extreme minorities who keep the country captive in regression and underdevelopment. The worst thing, however, is that it systematically underestimates the intelligence of the Greek citizens, who have already overrun it and gradually put it where it deserves it, in the calamity of the unusable. Ladies and gentlemen, we New Democracy Members, loyal to our commitments and to our programme adopted by the citizens by a overwhelming majority on 7 July 2019, support the government and the Prime Minister of the country Kyriakos Mitsotakis. We are moving forward with determination and realism in the necessary institutional modernisation of the country that ensures growth and prosperity for all citizens. Society and the majority of citizens are with us and expect us to have faster and measurable results. Finally, I declare that I am voting for the bill under discussion. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u570	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the time. Mr. Marios Katsis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u571	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of Mr Mitsotakis, in the midst of a pandemic and in the midst of a pan-Hellenic examination, comes and suggests a bill that blows up working conditions for each and every one working in the country. It is a political anti-Scientific, anti-constitutional, class hatred against many, and - I would say - darkening, because it is turning us back many years. Let me also borrow an expression of the pop culture of our time that the Government of New Democracy is completely isolated from the Objection 'forward'. That's the doctrine you're following. And I say completely isolated, and politically and socially, because almost all of us are against the bill. All parties, workers' associations, associations of small and medium-sized employers, GSEWEU, the Athens Bar Association, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, the Scientific Service of the Parliament. You are only in favour of New Democracy and BSE, who along with his former Director-General, Mr Scorcho, who gave you the top minister, gave you this dangerous bill here. I'll prove it. Let's remember what Mr. Mitsotakis said. He stated at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition in September 2019, he had just become Prime Minister that the labour market in Greece is over-regulated. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Let's see and welcome the Informatics Association in 2018 what it said. He said the eighth hour is over and at election meetings with tourist entrepreneurs who asked him for seven days of work, he smiled in condescendingly. Well, then, you said it was make news of these. Now, you come and you legislate everything. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Katsis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's see what you're dictating from euphemisms and the raw lies of Mr. Hatzidakis, who goes out on his own in panels and with rhetorical life coach afflicts the citizens brutally. You are effectively abolishing the eighth hour by introducing the individual contract and by means of the individual contract the ten-hour work with two hours unpaid work. And as the Minister himself confessed, they'll be paid for them sometime off. You tell us that there were businesses that did this, such as "PASTRATO" or other businesses in tourism. You're talking about half the truths, that is, big lies. Because that's where the collective agreement is, not individual. Here, you have the employer and the employee negotiating as if they were equal, violating the basic principle of the science of labour law, which says the relationship is heterogeneous because of dependence. It's like you're changing the position of Euclidial geometry, that two points go through just one straight. That's why I described this bill as absolutely unscientific. Really, in contracts signed by seasonals in tourism under six months, when will these people take their days off unpaid overtime after you give them six months to get them? Never, obviously. Not only that, but he'll be able to fire them before the end of the semester and before they take the day off and replace them with others. In labour-intensive companies, such as companies with telephone service centres, this will already be done and done. You are double the cheap overtime and, indeed, jeopardising the health and safety of the workers who are tired and tired will be with the increase in working hours. You are extending the possibility of redundancies. Today, if there is an illegal dismissal and the employee is justified in court, he is entitled to re-entry and oversee all the wages he has lost. You abolish re-entry in practice and say that you will receive a remuneration, and since the employers can do so because of the financial possibilities, we will see whether you will also get it. You give the employer time to pay the compensation, like if anyone needs that money, it's not the one who just got fired, but he's the one who fired him. You have the courage to speak in the title for protecting work, while it is the protection of Employees. In the distortion you really don't get. You're first. Even in the part-time work of the EUR 400 involving women and young people you come and impose the waste hours, i.e. two hours in the morning and bring them back to work in the evening. Instead of confronting the demographic problem and the ingenuity with economic privileges offered to both parents by other European countries to new couples, to have a child, you are making darkening subnatal conferences that you are running to withdraw your participation when you are caught with the sprout on your back. You take the responsibility of the birth rate for women and the new generation, which you have set with EUR 534 a month, with the eight hours being spent and overtime paid off. There, of course, is the question of unionism, the strike and the collective rights of workers. You say that you are modernising trade union law, while in reality you are abolishing flagship No 1264/1982. Make the strike almost impossible, make the unions fully employers by electronic voting and the administration intervenes unconstitutionally in the autonomy of the clubs. Play with the digital working card for the APRC that you make it an independent authority. But, really, what can the digital working card protect when you have done all the employer's arbitrariness? It's a shirt empty. And for the APRD, what independence do you call, when three of the five members of the board of directors will be some of the government? Your purpose is to drugize the next government, and the possibility of overthrowing that reality during the Vorides doctrine. This is what you are voting for on your own, in a country like Greece with the highest unemployment, most of the working hours between the countries of the European Union. You also do not say that, throughout Europe, industrial relations are defined by collective agreements of over 80%, and here you prefer individual ones and you represent pro-Europeans. That's the irony. Ladies and gentlemen, the majority policies are failed, because we saw them implemented in 2012-2015. Your arguments are the same as you were saying when you lowered the basic salary, when you brought the racist subjugation under the age of twenty-five, when you introduced the business contracts against collectives. What were you talking about? You said that competitiveness would increase, reduce unemployment in young people, invest. What happened? We had 28% unemployment, 60% young people and a recession and you launched the Brain Drain. It's exactly the backwards, because these are the organic lies of the liberal utopia. President Biden said that, that's never worked. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. People are changing and you are unrepentantly backwards. We raised the minimum wage, abolished the subordinate, declared the overtime at "ERGANI" with sms for the first time and told us that the workers were kicking them out of business as soon as they were regularly commenting, we restored the sectoral contracts that led to better wages. And what happened? Unemployment has decreased 10 units, the economy has had thirteen consecutive quarters of growth. This bill is the vehicle of an extreme policy to turn Greece into a special economic zone within the European Union with cheap elastic work, where a handful of elite will be fruited with the Recovery Fund and the majority of the world will be in impoverishment. We are voting against this bill. We ask that you withdraw it even now. First of all, however, this bill is against it - and I want you to understand it - the Greek people. It is a bill that will in practice be cancelled by the labour movement. It is a bill that when we have the mandate of the Greek people and we will soon be officially abolishing it in the House to bring the country back to the right side, to the right side of progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u572	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We are now continuing with Mr Christos Boukoro, then Mrs Kafantaris, Mr Lionides and Mr Pappas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u573	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Indeed, the bill is important and I cannot blame the Members of the whole Left who have taken the issue patriotically. They have been nurtured with the idea of proletariat, which should be guided by a spirit and a party of Intelligence in a spirit of guidance and paternalism, but here too is our fundamental difference, ladies and gentlemen. We believe that, in free societies, free people are neither ridiculed nor guided, nor others are better aware of their interest than they are. We have lived in the past few days a huge frustration, confusing and confusing operation by the anti-population forces, an attempt to distort the content of the bill, hoping to gain political gains in a time of political poverty for those who do not get anything out of them. They thought that they were able to address the working class by ignoring that the time has changed, that the conditions have changed, that we are in the face of the fourth industrial revolution, that teleworking, human life needs are constantly changing, daily and that we are invited to stick to provisions and regulations that have gone beyond time. If that's not the epitome of conservatism, then I wonder what it is. So they think they are their privileged field. They do not realize that workers are not listening to them, and that is what is seen in the trade union elections, it appears in all elections, it is seen in public measurements and it is not taken into consideration. I'm sorry, they're staying there. They do not count, they do not weigh the forces of counterpopulation today how much work conditions have changed and how much the needs of modern man have changed. Do you no longer see that with the social networks every human being, every citizen is trying to represent his or her desires and beliefs on his or her own? Can't you see how low the credibility of the trade unions has fallen, what percentages of Greek workers are traded? Do you even ignore the reality that 82% of workers in this country are not organized in unions? Is it the structure of the business or is it the credibility of the trade union movement? It could be both and more together. I am concerned, however, that you are not at all concerned and want to be persuasive. When does the worker get to a workplace today at a factory in Aspropyrgos or in the industrial area of Volos, ladies and gentlemen, what control mechanism can testify to it better than applying the digital card that is the top of the bill? Are you against this? In the encouragement of the employer,'stay a little longer, drown, have orders', can the employee of the Labour Inspectorate be there? Isn't the digital working card more efficient? Is the introduction of permits for young parents, for the new father of 14 days, negative? I didn't hear a good talk. We are talking about equality, about needs, about demographics, about two days' leave. And go to the top issue. The distortion operation had a central axis that said "you give overtime and you will be paid with a day off", while the bill separates them completely. You give more time if you choose and take time. When you work overtime, you get money and you can get more money. I also heard the new argument: “Why is the industrial worker being given the opportunity to work for a hundred sixty hours overtime? Did you not know that this increase from ninety hours to fifty will deprive someone who is unemployed? On the one hand, it is in favour of workers and on the other hand, that they should not be given the opportunity to increase their income. That is, so conflicting arguments and then the Left wonders - perhaps if he wonders, because I don't know if he's worried about it - why he doesn't sound in the private sector workers' class. Let's go to the strikes. Can society as a whole be constantly afflicted by organised minorities? Who's afraid of the majority in the trade union movement? Who is afraid of mass participation by the vote remotely of all workers? Who wants to be the father of the labour movement, with the five, the ten that controls and exercises violence? Did we forget what happened at the last GSC conference? So these phenomena do not want society and it is not that Mitsotakis and the government do not want them. The vast majority of society does not want it, so it has made you a minority. Ladies and gentlemen, those who have worked hard in their lives can understand that no law can protect them completely from the arbitraryness of the employer who is given and recorded historically. It cannot protect them from unemployment, it cannot protect them from low wages. Only the growth and increase in the demand for new jobs can really protect the worker from all these phenomena. But not to hear from left-wing MPs, not a single word about the provisions of the bill on violence and harassment, that really goes beyond me. It's getting over me! Not a single speaker! We, therefore, and with this bill, believe that in the real free society, the worker must have the right to choose. And the burden of proof of anything against the worker, of bringing it before the supervisory authorities and justice - where necessary - the employer. And this is an important intersection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u574	We're continuing with Mrs. Kaftaris. Then there's Mr. Lionides and Mr. Pappas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u575	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the competent Minister who introduced this bill into Parliament, Mr Hatzidakis, is not present. However, I cannot comment on the morning position he made, which was characterized by great tension and anxiety. He said, 'I am proud of the works that I have done'. It specifically referred to PPC and referred to the increase in its stock exchange value, etc. But I'm going to ask him some questions and he won't be here. Is it proud of the increases in electricity prices of 15% -20% since September 2019 just took over by New Democracy? Is it proud of energy poverty that still exists and strengthens? Is he proud of what happened today, ladies and gentlemen? I was in Agia Varvara, in the Municipality of Western Athens, where two OPECE, Police and DEDDIE cut out our fellow citizens' electricity. Is this all proud? And this is not only the municipality in question. It's a fact. It is a reality that has been happening over the last few years. But I'd say something else. All the workers, the citizens of this country, independently of their position, when they heard that Mr Hatzidakis is coming to the Ministry of Labour, have felt a fear that I believe has been confirmed. They felt a fear because the works and days of Mr. Hatzidakis, the current Minister of Labour, are: the sale of Olympics. We must not forget that. It's what he did to PPC, all that I said. Of course, we must not say about the increases in the wages of the few and the fine Golden Boys. But this bill, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour we are discussing now, which will be signed, I think, will be a very grey point. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the bill you entered, this bill, is a monument of political fraud. It's a monument of poor legacy. Where do I support what I'm saying? The fine wrapping which the representatives of the New Democracy are talking about in public terms, and everywhere, in other words, the incorporation of international conventions, the ILO's 190 questions of health and safety, ratification of the directive on parental leave, etc., is of course positive, but they go to hide the core of this draft law. The deep reactionary core that essentially expresses the backward logic, conservativeism and ideas of Mr Mitsotakis' party. What you have not implemented, ladies and gentlemen, in the second memorandum, is now coming and you are implementing it with the draft law which we are discussing at the request of the BSE agency, not all of the business world. Because there are chambers, there are business representatives, traders, who are against. You are completely isolated from society, from the parties, but mostly from scientific bodies, legal associations, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, and even the Scientific Committee of the Parliament with specific objections. Two days now we are hearing from the New Democracy colleagues in their majority - I will not say for everyone - talk about SYRIZA. Even her rapporteur on the first day, from nineteen and a half minutes only talked about the bill. Attacking SYRIZA. We heard that before. Everything about the poor SYRIZA who, after the memorials, restored collective agreements, arranged protection for contract workers, brought the justified dismissal. On the other hand, the Labour Inspectors' College did not strengthen the APRC. Here I will say a number: 6 million hours overtime have been paid under SYRIZA's rule. The employer was obliged to declare overtime overtime through the "ERGAN" system rather than retrospectively, as you are promoting in this draft law, which we can say is also some corrections. You are now talking about independent authorities and that the LFS will become an independent authority. You have even accused us of preferring the Minister and we do not want an independent authority. It's a tactic you're following, if you like, so that the responsibility for respecting labour law arises. Worker and boss are the same. They are, in fact, equal in the negotiation. Those who listen to us understand that this is not the case. Family life. Part-time part-time work, which is largely employable in women, can be done with a waste of time, understand how helpful it is for family life. The relevant Minister of the Family who was here this afternoon did not give us any convincing answers. It's hitting the trade union movement. You said, gentlemen of the government - Mr Hatzidakis said so too - that you are the party of the workers. My colleague, before me, referred to the trade unionists. I come here to say: first convince your trade unionists who are also on the streets and leave the Left, leave SYRIZA alone, leave the democratic space. You're completely isolated. You are effectively abolishing the right to unemployment by this electronic vote. Those who have worked - because I am not sure that the authors of the bill have worked, let me do this - know that this electronic vote can be done by the head of the office, can be done by the staff management of a large company. So you understand how representative of the wishes of the workers can be. You are talking about Europe in your communication. You say that, anyway, these are European data, when there is a great debate in Europe, and in some countries the working hours are reduced, rather than increasing, as is the case with the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u576	You're welcome, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u577	I'm done. In your communication you are trying to create confusion by talking about the right to work and the right to unemployment. You are falsifying the logic of the constitution in order to be able to mislead the world. Not to talk about Sunday work in many areas. You're dealing with deliver workers on the platforms as businessmen. For your work accident, there is no such bill. This is the regularity of the democracy and government of Mr Mitsotakis. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u578	Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We continue with Mr. Leonardis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u579	Ladies and gentlemen, the constant practice of Officerial Response, revealed to us over the years that have passed us and ruled, is the enormous distance between words and works, the impressive propaganda with misleading slogans instead of thorough and thorough criticism and the impoverishment of arguments with a sterile opposition speech. It is a good question if you believe in what you say or try to lure people who do not read bills, inventing disadvantages where they do not exist, falsifying the truth, having as a driver in your course that "say something will remain". But you didn't realize that you're being taken by the world. This is no longer the case in society. What can we do? You should have ruled to reveal yourself. Even by harming all those who have believed you and the rest of the others that have tolerated you. But that style ended, it went bankrupt. Do not repeat this in the draft legislation on the protection of work. For the New Democracy, decent, complete and productive work for all is: first, constitutional right, basic and inalienable. Secondly, a condition for individual and collective advancement. Thirdly, a tool for the development and transformation of the Greek economy. Fourthly, responding to people's needs. And fifthly, guaranteeing equality of opportunity. However, what are the benefits of the workers' draft legislation, which is a great intervention, which modernises labour legislation, which has largely not changed since 1982, when the Internet was not there, the teleworking and the structure of the Greek society and the economy were very different. We import the digital working card, which will make a decisive contribution to controlling and combating black work and tax evasion. It is a constant demand for workers and trade unions that the government makes a reality. It will be used by the worker when they enter and leave the establishment in order to record the working time, overtime and overtime. It will be a powerful means of protecting workers from the exploitation of employers, but also for honest employers who face unfair competition from those who are abused. If you don't think it's right, don't vote. The Labour Inspectorate is upgraded to an independent authority in such a way that labour market controls are not influenced by the government's will. We are also introducing measures against violence and harassment at the workplace. In particular, the scope of banned behaviour and protected persons is widened, the obligations of employers, including through the obligation to develop policies on violence and sexual harassment and initiatives to raise public awareness. Existing health and safety measures at the workplace shall be strengthened. The right to disconnect to telework is guaranteed and the cost of equipment, maintenance, etc. is borne by the employer. There is a consistent request from the trade unions to equate workers' allowances to that of employees. With regard to the issues of family and working life reconciliation, a maternity leave of fourteen days shall be introduced with remuneration. A four-month parental leave is provided for each parent, with an OAED grant for the two months. Nine weeks after birth and in the case of the adoption of children. A special leave is granted for the protection of the maternity of six months with a grant by the OAED and for the adoption of children. Reduced working hours, childcare leave, and the mother who acquired a child under the parental maternity procedure are provided. A privately assisted breeding licence shall be granted. A five-day caregiver license is introduced for relatives with care. Flexible working arrangements for parents of children up to 12 years old shall be extended. Isn't that all you like? We establish minimum guaranteed service during strikes in utilities, in principle at 33%. So it will not be possible for a strike to leave the country without power, transportation, collection of waste that poses a natural and danger to public health. However, since there was a lot of talk of the abolition not of the eighth hour, the government included a provision stating that the eight-hour day, weekend and five-day work were not affected. In fact, the bill gives an additional opportunity to implement a four-day weekly employment. The number of hours allowed, overtime, is increased to 50 hours per annum for all enterprises. We are widening the list of cases of invalid dismissal: firstly, redundancies in cases of violence and harassment are invalid. Secondly, the dismissal of the father of a newborn child up to six months old. Thirdly, workers who have received or requested any leave. Fourthly, workers who refused to agree on a set of working hours. Five, teleworkers who exercised the right to disconnect. Finally, we reverse the burden of proof in the dismissal of a worker. It is considered that, in principle, the worker is right and is the employer who must prove otherwise. But there is also the question of financial compensation, instead of re-entry. Ladies and gentlemen, we are before the gates of a huge opportunity, unique for Greece, for the Recovery Fund. It is an opportunity of historical dimensions that is rarely offered in the history of small states and can open new horizons for the Greek economy. Our aim is, on the one hand, to create more and better jobs and, on the other, to support the recovery and competitiveness of the Greek economy. The policies that we are promoting in the field of labour are complementarity, efficiency, strengthening new employment sectors, targeted actions, upgrading the workforce, creating a safety net for all. We're planning an investment cosmopolitan with the aim of covering the investment gap of the last decade. Instead, dear friends of counter-population to meddling and looking for problems where they do not exist, go over and support institutional arrangements, mutually benefit both workers and employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u580	So do we. We're continuing with Mr. Pappa. Immediately after Mr. Haritsis, Mr. Ypsilantis, Mr. Francis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u581	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the government ends eight hours and abolishes the collective bargaining. Things are very simple. I think that any wrapping and trying to put these days in Ethiopia and on televisions - which for the first time, I do not know if you have noticed that too, you have very serious difficulties in taking seriously the arguments you are talking about in the dialogue - will not succeed. And I'll say it very popular, because I see that from this Step there are rampant attacks exclusively on SYRIZA. You've got everyone in front of you. And if you think that the world that did not retire and went to work is in favour of the abolition of the eighth hour, of unpaid overtime, to gather its olives or I don't know what else, make a mistake of erection or according to the commonly called "swinging swings". This isn't about it. The world has understood what you are doing and you will see that the political price you will pay will be too, too heavy. From this, of course, Step forward, we hear extremes about how charitable the bill is. If we believe you, we must be afraid that your true self will be thrown out of nowhere and denounce your liar for Soviet-type arrangements. That's the kind of philosophical you've got here. It's really shocking how you're trying to present this bill. You are talking about the expectation of increasing employment and reducing unemployment through this type of regulation. Didn't you do anything like that in 2012? Professor, Mr. Chacloglu, excuse me. In 2012, there was the well-known cabinet act that abolished the collective bargaining and humiliated the minimum wage. What was the argument then? That competitiveness will increase and jobs will be increased. What was the result? It was 27% unemployment. And let me address you a little more personally because you're a teacher. Here there are some data very recently that cannot be ignored in policy planning, and the data are that with policy 2010-2014 a million jobs have been lost, with policy 2015-2019 four hundred and fifty thousand jobs won. Is this taken into account? Have you come to any conclusions? And because in the Pissaridis report you have also signed, let me say that we are rather breaking open doors here. You say quite clearly in this report, which is the core of economic policy you want to exercise, that the number of overtime should be managed and that we should make it easier for businesses to change the number of workers. In fact, let's make it easier for them. When the economy is compressed and we make it easier for businesses to change the number of workers, what will business do? Dismissals. It is the definition of pre-cyclical policy, the definition of what I think is called trickle - down economics, what it has denounced - and we have surprisedly heard it - with great emphasis the newly elected President of the United States, Joe Byden, even saying that these policies have never worked. Can you imagine the Chief of the New Democracy going up to this step and saying that these policies have never worked and that this country has built it with the middle-class unions? Can you imagine that? Can you imagine Mitsotakis going up to this Step and saying something similar to what Biden said? You cannot obviously bet on Greece because it is precisely in an environment where there is scope for expansive progressive policy and policy that prioritises social protection, we have a reactionary government, a government that has not drawn any conclusions from the recent past and is ready to repeat the mistakes of the past. Lots and lots of good-paid jobs. Biff. ELSTAT's data were also reviewed. We had a recession before the coronary, and I would like to ask the Members of the New Democracy to stop saying that the coronary brought the recession. ELSTAT's data has been reviewed and this story ends. There is also a very clear, and I shall be brief, ideological objective from the introduction of this draft law to be voted on. It is the break of consciousness of common interest built between employees and small and medium-sized enterprises in the course of pandemic and crisis. This is an even more critical objective for your Government in relation to the vote within Parliament. This image scares you. You are frightened by the image of a entrepreneurship which realizes that its salvation is not in the compelling of labour costs for 10% -15%, Minister. There is a huge part of entrepreneurship that understands that the big problem is that it goes and opens its shop and does 15 and 20 euros a day. And salvation is not to reduce the wages of one, two or three people who employ 10% or 15% in an indirect or direct way. You, of course, - and you and those who sign the Pissaridis report - identify these businesses as the fundamental problem of the Greek economy, do not mind if they are closed down. Consider that if they close they may reopen as they closed or open others in place. But that's not the way the real economy is, and that's a lesson that I'm afraid you should have taken. We even heard about family support and that mother would like to go see her child and have the opportunity to sit with him for three days. Aren't we a little embarrassed? Where did you go on the line to show up, and I don't know what in this congress he tried to trade and the choice for childbirth? Insulting to women, and of course with a great sponsorship of the bank, which would also give the loan to make the in vitro fertilisation. I shall end with this, Mr President, and I will not abuse your kindness. I visited the earthquake areas a few days ago with the Larisa MPs. It is out of the question, but it would be inappropriate for me not to mention it from the Step of Parliament. The earthquake stones of 3 March are in exactly the same position and they are shameful. Be careful, the responsibility of the members of the Government under the Constitution, Mr Tsakloglu, is collective. You may not have jurisdiction, but if a man strikes you? I'm telling you, it's the stones in the same spot. It's the ruins ready to collapse and it hasn't happened...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u582	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u583	That's where we'd be with you. There hasn't been an assignment to a contractor to go and collect the stones and the ruins. That's not even what you've done. And he knew the Ministry of Infrastructure to order gloves for the Athens Transport Agency with 250,000 from a float in Serres, but the ruins where the earthquakes are plundered are exactly the same place. I testify to the Minutes and the relevant photographs. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned photos which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u584	Thank you. We're continuing with Mr. Haritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u585	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed discussing one of the most critical bills in recent years and indeed at a very critical time, as we all hope that we are heading towards the end of the pandemic, if things develop smoothly internationally, and societies around the world are looking for their pace for the next day. This is a next day that bears the burden of successive crises, of the climate crisis, of the health crisis, of the recent unprecedented treaty of the freezing of the economy. Of course, this next day is still in international shape. But it already seems to be one of its main features, the search for a new social contract that combats inequalities, supports the social state as a factor of cohesion and creates the conditions for fair growth. It is characteristic, and you know that symbolisms have their value, that even the communiqué a few days ago G7, which is not as if they were extremist, the "Cornwail Consensus", so, as it was called, starts with a reference to the need for more solidarity and closes as a key goal for inclusive growth, while even in our country we see that in recent times there are voices that show that perceptions change and priorities change. For example, I read last week with interest a study by the Think Tank of the 'DIANOSIS' - which I do not think can be accused of being a SYRIZA - which speaks of the social state as an accelerator of sustainable development. These considerations, these objectives should also define political controversy, but unfortunately we do not see that happening. On the contrary, we are moving in the completely different direction. At a time when the whole planet is looking for a progressive response to the social issue of our time, we unfortunately have a government binding on the most archaic neoliberal ideas. What is the answer to Mr Mitsotakis' government? No adjustment, but dissolution. No rules, but immunity. No rights, but coercion. The bill that New Democracy brought is out of date and destructive in its contents. I cannot of course deny that you are consistent. You had said that in the run-up to the election. You have made it quite clear, Mr Minister, that you have also been aware of the Pissaridis report. You included it in your proposal for the Recovery Fund. What's that? That your plan is an even more advanced version, I would say, a more destructive version of what you implemented a decade ago with the well-known extremely painful results for society: Internal devaluation through the dissolution of labour. After all, you have already done so since August 2019, only one month after you took over governance by limiting collective agreements, with the deterioration of the EDP, with the increase in legal overtime by 60%, with the abolition of provision for the goodwill due to redundancies. And now, of course, with this bill, we have the climax of the drama, because you show in practice what Greece you want, which you are planning for the coming years. A country without confidence that will fight for the gold medal in the race to the bottom, because that is where our country will be led with compressed wages, with broken hours without rules, without control, without protection mechanisms. A country where its future in international division - which is currently redeployed globally - will be one of the special economic zone, with no employment rights, no environmental protection, no skills development for our people, without the development of know-how for Greek businesses. It's a clearly unfair choice. And not only that is a disastrous choice. After all, we know this from our recent history, from the darkest days of the recession, when the Memorandum promises imposed austerity policies, but the infamous development was not coming. The demand for growth does not come from the dismantling of the regulations in the economy, but from their strengthening. The adversarial, of course, - we have heard him here these days too - is well known, that the conditions have changed. But that's exactly the point. Now that the conditions have really changed, what answers do we give them new conditions? What are the priorities we set ourselves? You say lower wages, shorter hours, zero rights. We say work at the core of the new development effort, the lever of growth by reducing working time and increasing the minimum wage. A great deal has been said about this bill. I will not analyse them any further. Our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative, and all colleagues before me, have done so with great adequacy. I would like to point out that there has been a huge communication effort in the recent Organic type, I would say, in order to reverse reality, to present the black of the bill as white. I will only point out two central interventions which, in my opinion, are the most critical and most charged - if you like - ideologically. It is the dismantling of the control mechanisms by transforming the EIA into an independent authority - because this is what we are talking about - and the personalization of the employee relationship - an employer. So, as much as things have changed - which have actually changed - in the labour market in recent years, it is something that has remained unchanged in time. And everyone who's worked in their lives knows that. And what's that? It is that in real life the relationship between employer and worker is always asymmetric. That is why the capital-work relationship must have rules and be regulated. So whoever lives in the real world knows what this bill you're bringing, the dissolution of the daily lives of thousands of people, unbearable pressures and blackmails, young people with broken lives who will make a three-hour in the morning and a three-hour in the evening. As for what we have heard from a number of Members of the House of Commons, they are really out of any sense of logic. We heard that Mother's gonna sit at home on Fridays looking out for the kids like this is a sitting room. We have heard that the worker will be able to go to the doctor, as if there is already no entitlement to sick leave. We have heard that the worker and the employer are not friends anymore. Even if the tenth hour is to reduce travel costs we have heard from a Member of the New Democracy. All this would be funny and embarrassing, but it is extremely dangerous, unfortunately, and they are disorientated by the substantial debate that we should have had on the arrangements that we should have had in teleworking, in contracting, for workers on technological platforms, in this complex, complex environment, especially for young people and young people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Because you know Brain Drain over the past few decades when within a five-year 2010-2014 we lost about five hundred thousands of young people with degrees and qualifications who left the country, it was not a natural phenomenon. It was the result of specific political choices, which are now further than the current government. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have much time to say. I'll close with you. If something is confirmed, I believe that the latest international developments from health management and the financial management of the pandemic are the return of politics. Politics is not far away. Political decisions have a decisive influence on the lives of the people of the social majority for the better or worse. And what the Parliamentary majority decides today will make the lives of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens much more difficult tomorrow. It says so very well - you will allow me to close with this - a young man born in 1992 who has escaped poverty and is now well known. He writes this new terrible child of French radical intellectuals, Edward Louis: "For the sovereigns politics is usually a matter of aesthetics. One way to think of themselves, one way to see the world, to form his face. For us, and here Lui talks about his family coming from the working class, "political was a matter of life and death. We cannot allow social injustice to become a new normality. There is a possibility for a policy that ensures workers' dignity, development by rules, the pursuit of a solidarity society, and for this policy we will fight." Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u586	We are now continuing with Mr. Ypsilanti.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u587	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is natural that the pathogens, the historical complexes and the bitter truth of the opposition parties emerge on the occasion of the debate on labour law. This does not surprise us of the extreme left-wing and right-wing parties today expressed in the national Parliament. But we see SYRIZA re-introducing his philosophical shirt that had been denied while it was a government to serve in the well-known revolutionary gymnastics. A practice that is outdated and conservative for a modern European democracy and also deeply damaging to the real interests of society and citizens. They forgot the negotiation and the measures with the multi-project SYRIZA for the third evaluation. You forgot that Mr Tsipras had come to say that it would be an exaggeration to ask the PDP to understand the framework of the negotiation or the JRC to understand what it means to stay in Europe. Have you forgotten the arrangements for the quorum in the primary trade unions? Have you forgotten about the insurance law Katrugalo 4387/2016 and the measures against workers, but also the recent vote against you by reducing insurance contributions that meant increasing the net earnings of workers? In the Dodecanese, we say that they are 'bailed'. That's what you're doing, gentlemen of SYRIZA. That's exactly what you're doing. Ladies and gentlemen, you are identified with the backwardness and misguided union that so much suffering has brought to our place, but also to workers with left-hand obsessions and ideals, and not with the modernistic and absolutely necessary socially sensitive modern world. The Government introduces the new labour legislation with the aim of two main parameters: to strengthen social cohesion with measures to protect workers, measures to address their current real problems, particularly women and young people, and measures to restore injustices and to attract productive Greece. Mr. Haritsis, you have stayed at that time when your people condemned you. It will attract such investments with arrangements to adapt labour legislation to social, economic and technological developments of the time, by abolishing anachronistic provisions and adapting the framework of labour law to best European practices. It is a bill that, with excess populism and irresponsibility, the Opposition seeks by distorting the truth to work and prosecute it in an allegedly anti-grassed, anti-grass project. First untrue is that he's supposedly dropping the eighth. This is not only the case, but rather it is shielded and brought into order under the arbitrary conditions that are observed in the workplace, for those who have, of course, worked and know exactly what is happening. If the worker himself wants to do so - and only if the worker so wishes - he will adjust working hours at his request on the basis of his needs. There will therefore be the possibility, not the obligation of the worker, or if this is agreed by his association, to work for up to two hours above, with a corresponding reduction in working hours in other days or similar days, so that in six months' time the average work is five days per week and eight hours per day. The digital working card, through which the APRC, as an independent authority, is now to be monitored in real time the time and time. Greece is innovating as it will become one of the first advanced countries to implement this measure. The right of disconnection which protects workers and the new conditions of teleworking brought about by the pandemic. In this way, emphasis is placed on the balance of personal and professional life. The unacceptable scheme that the workers' compensation would have wanted to be much lower than the remuneration of employees is an end. In the interests of transparency, consolidation of the trade union movement and strengthening its representativeness, there is an facilitated participation of workers in meetings and votes. The purpose of the provision is not to challenge compliance with the law on any trade union action. Let's remember the beatings at GSEE conferences. The arrangements we introduce serve the credibility of the trade union movement itself. With regard to the right to strike it was and obviously remains respected. The provision we introduce for staff ensuring minimum guaranteed operation protects the rights of citizens in terms of providing a minimum of 33% level of service in critical sectors in the course of strikes. We note that such arrangements exist - for the Greek people to be informed - both in France and Belgium and in Canada and in Australia and in other countries. It is clarified that this does not change the status of security staff and does not refer to the number of workers required to provide their services, but to the level of services provided. Finally, with the bill we ratify the relevant Convention of the International Labour Organisation on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment at Work. Ladies and gentlemen, with pandemic, humanity has been faced with great challenges and Greece has the happy occasion of having a government that responds in time, targeted, effectively, to the major issues raised by society. For the sensitive workplace, in addition to the employment support measures, the protection of this and of the workers is best supported by the legislation that we are voting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u588	Thank you for the time, Mr. Highlands. We are now continuing with Mr. Francis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u589	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union's policy over the last few decades on labour law aimed at three things, high employment and strong social protection, improving living and working conditions, protecting social cohesion, calling for the legislation in question. The Government of New Democracy writes its own version of Labour Law, which is revealing its intrinsic and intrinsic characteristics, i.e. intrinsic neoliberalism, coexistence with the labour elite and individual qualification vis-à-vis the collective. "Blue clothed sheep" is the characterisation that suits glove in the bill. The Government is using innocence clothing which provides provisions for compliance with European data, such as the harmonisation of professional and private life and the elimination of violence and harassment at the workplace, attempts to cover the wolves hidden below, namely the abolition of eight hours' work, the increase in overtime leading to the reduction of income, the release of redundancies, the dismantling of collective agreements and the right to strike. The aim is to serve the strengths of the labour market and weaken trade unionism. We do not say 'law is the right of the worker'. But we believe in a fair representation of workers and in ensuring the protection of workers' acquired rights. Yes, trade union legislation needed modernisation, but not that kind of thing. We don't say no to flexible work. In addition, PASOK provided for this by Law No.3846 of 2010, but in Article 7, with one notice, that the settlement of working time was necessary through collective agreements, through the participation and assent of the trade unions. Inadmissible and the conversion of the AAR to a so-called independent authority. It gives a scandalous opportunity to a "Ponto Pilate Government" to remove all responsibility for labour marketed, favouring the development of working jungle conditions, let me say, where the most prestigious law is that of the mighty. The government, addressing a large number of anti-corruption provisions in a labour market fully dismantled, continues its systematic attack on decent work, working with the particular juncture of pandemic and job precariousness. It does not modernise as a debtor of PASOK’s highly successful and progressive PASOK Law 1264 of 1982. It abolishes him to give his place in a counter-reformation, an anachronistic construction that returns us to eras of labour disorganization and anachronism, when employers' arbitrage, labour devastatement and low wages were considered a precondition for economic growth. Your work bill, Minister, ignores the rapid developments in society and the economy, the changes that technology and the fourth industrial revolution bring to production, work and everyday life. Artificial intelligence and intelligent machines reduce the working time required and show the way to new jobs. We should now discuss the reduction of working time, the retraining of workers and the creation of full-time quality jobs. Instead, we are discussing the lengthening of working hours and the increase in overtime. The Government even pretends that the labour market is an angelically framed one, that an unpowered worker, with unemployment threatening him as a tombbreaker, is an equal interlocutor of an ever-powered employer. It is trying to convince us that the harmonisation of family and working life can be achieved through work extinction, low wages, Sunday work, break-off hours in part-time work. As for your digital working card as an innovative institutional development, we recall that it has been voted already in 2011 by the PASOK Government. It was Law 3996/2011 and Article 26. And, unfortunately, its implementation will in principle be pilot. Mostly, however, the bill fails to address the challenge of the demographic problem directly linked to labour policy. It does not favour the creation of new jobs, it does not create the conditions for the achievement of Brain regain. On the other hand, by forming working conditions of uncontrolled old times, the Government becomes the moral automobile of a new Brain Drain. Modern production model requires innovation and specialisation. But what new high qualifications will remain to work and create a family in Greece under these working conditions? Demographic-working today needs a new proposal that is friendly to young people and families, which will create favourable conditions for family planning, which will provide young people with work rather than work, and will make them feel safe and not slavery to employers' arbitrariness and exploitation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis - Hatzidakis bill is doomed to fail because, firstly, it does not take into account man and the right to decent work, secondly, it is anachronistic, it does not go hand in hand with developments and modern socio-economic conditions, thirdly, it attempts to adopt fragmentary practices from other European countries by overlooking their diversity in social structure and productive model fourthly, it does not result from extensive dialogue and consensus with civil society, social, scientific and political bodies and, above all, because, fifthly, it does not provide and does not guarantee a good future for the new generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u590	Thank you to Mr Frangidis for his time and continue with Mr. Gikalaya from New Democracy. Come on, Mr Colleague, be within the timeframe too, to proceed with the process. We still have too many colleagues, at least 20.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u591	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was concerned about how I would share my time with him if I would follow him on board, namely listing the too many reforms that bring this important bill, or answering what is heard all these days by colleagues from the left-wing parties, and especially by the Violation, characterised by these positions from hypocrisy, lies, obsessions, huggings and ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, you are always talking about the workers and you are acting like their exclusive protectors. We really want workers to have as many rights and better wages as possible. In order to do this, however, there must also be work to ensure that there are jobs, there must be employers. We want harmony in relations between workers and employers. Our conviction from our liberal ideology is, of course, the equal pay for equal work. We want and look forward to raising the pie and creating those conditions that each worker claims to be greater than the pie. But you, with your obsessed with your struggle for supposed equality, equation, do this by leveling everything down and so in the end, there is no pie or very small pie. This bill is a great modernisation of labour law, it brings regulations that are consistent with modern developments in economic, social, technological and redressing injustices of many decades. It is a law that comes after many years, because Labour law is governed by articles of 1982. It is demonstrated by this law once again that the New Democracy is the most progressive part of our country, but I will list even quickly and briefly the important innovations brought by the bill and perhaps some of you have considered and consider how it is possible to disagree with so many things modern and necessary that come: the digital card, the introduction of new parent and carer licences, the Labour Inspectorate that makes it an independent authority. The independent authority is again a state, dear statesmen of counterpopulation. And what questiones the independent way the ADP operates? Is it not a state of ADP? We are taking measures on health and safety at work, on trade union rights, on digital platforms, which are like contracts on dependent labour. First time after years, we take care of all these children, the children of the people, who are the workers of the delivers and couriers. We're increasing the severance compensation. We welcome, if you like, a consistent demand from the Left and in particular the JRC: the compensation of the workers is the same as the compensation of the employees. We are establishing the institutional framework for teleworking and the right of disconnection. We see to it that working time is adjusted at the employee's request. We are widening protection against void redundancies. We upgrade the "ERGANI" to reduce the burden on businesses. We want trade union protection, but of course we are putting an end to the immunity of many trade unions who used violence or committed illegal acts. It is forbidden to reopen a strike which has been characterised as illegal and abusive, precisely because we respect the institution of justice. There must be one third of workers in some important public life actions, such as transport, health and so on. Measures on transparency in trade unionism with the register which we are providing for and a ban on the strengthening of trade unions by employers and parties. Of course the large part of this bill is the digital card, because it is an important blow to undeclared, unpaid work. We will not get tired of talking about permits, because they bring about a balance in each citizen's personal, family and working life, with parental leave, with fourteen days of paternity leave, with flexible arrangements for children up to twelve years old, for parents and caregivers, with the adoption of a maternity leave for six months, and with parental leave facilities, with seven days' pay leave - that is what you so much talk about, and you are going on, there is no time to say about it, I could say a lot - five days' leave for relative or short-term health care - and that is still important - four days' child-care leave for child-care with disabilities, particularly for parental leave for children with disabilities. We have said about measures to combat violence and harassment in the workplace, the right to leave workers if the employer does not take the measures he has to take and creates a risk environment. It shall be prohibited to dismiss the complainant. Isn't that the most enterprising measure? One important thing: the decoupling of telephone and electronics for off-hour work and when the worker is on leave. Overtime is on the European Union's average, about fifty. As far as working time is concerned, I would like to make a little reference, Mr President. Wasn't that on OTE, Alpha Bank, "PASTRATO", "HH"? Your request, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, was it not for hotel officials and we satisfied it? Has SYRIZA not brought the European Directive 1158 in 2019? We take care of the interoperability between "ERGANI", e-EPCA, in the Labour Inspectorate. Dismissal of a trade unionist can be carried out with protection, as is the case with pregnant women. Who can dispute that there is no protection of the dismissal of a pregnant woman? And I will end by saying that, of course, we believe that the electronic register of unions, the 'no' to clubs - seals is a great intersection. We believe both in the right to strike and in the right to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u592	Thank you very much for the time. We will now continue with Mr. Avramakis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u593	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the written samples of the New Democracy Government concerning the dismantling of labour rights and any protective provision for workers have been given since the first time in its administration. The New Democracy, which had promised more jobs and better wages for all, started the attack on the world of work by first liberating redundancies by abolishing the effective dismissal, lifting the protection of contract workers, abolishing the obligation to declare overtime at the time of the operation, the complete inactivity of the EMS and the systematic decommissioning of collective labour contracts. Subsequently, under the pretext of the pandemic, it frozen the minimum wage increase twice and reduced the wages at the same time, reduced the purchasing power of the workers, transformed conditions of full employment insecurity, did not effectively support the free traders, so that many businesses were at risk with a padlock. It has allowed the violent redistribution of market shares in favour of the few and strong in every economic sector and now comes to complete its destructive work with this bill. Society, the world of work, the small and medium-sized professionals, the scientific bodies, the judges, the Scientific Service of the Parliament, a series of institutional social and economic bodies which cannot be considered and characterised as opposition, have taken a stand against the legislative excretion calling for the immediate withdrawal of the solvents for the society it contains. The unprofessional, but a professional of politics and a child of the party tube Minister of Labour, Mr. Hatzidakis, claims without any shame that this bill is charitable and gives the workers power. In fact as another Olli Rehn with the "Greek garrison", he wishes with this bill "good power and good courage" to employees both private and public sectors, and at the same time, he wishes a good journey to young people who are disappointed by the working middle ages established will probably seek their luck abroad. At a time when all the analyses agree that there is a rapid rise in unemployment, the government brings a bill of intensification of labour and job reduction, which is now considered necessary for the operation of enterprises in the country. It introduces 10 hours' work without any additional pay for overtime. It multiplies the legal overtime limit and compensates for the loss of wages by taking the day off at times when the company has reduced staff needs. The Government gives the undertaking the absolute right to oblige the worker to work 10 hours without additional fees, but with the promise of a reduced working hours or more days of leave during periods which the company will not have increased needs. How many jobs are lost only by this arrangement? But that is not enough for the interests of the government and Mr Hatzidakis personally. By optimising even part-time work, the company will be able to apply even a waste hour to part-time workers, who will be able to make use of them throughout the day in line with the increased needs of the company. A series of workers who do two part-time jobs to enable them to survive will be forced to leave the second. Are these the new jobs that you promised, part-time working with flexible and smaller wages? As for the argument that this whole arrangement will only be made at the request of the worker and according to their own needs is one of the greatest communications lies ever heard. In practice, the abolition of collective agreements makes the employer completely dominant and the reorganization of working time. It is the employer who will say 'these are the needs of the firm or you are adapting or leaving' to the worker. This is the reality of the working jungle that the New Democracy Government brings with the bill. In order to make it even more clear that the worker will have no right, that the last means of protecting the worker is abolished, that of recourse to justice, against an illegal abusive dismissal. You are abolishing overdueness and compulsory reintegration by giving the illegally dismissal a small additional compensation which may be lower than the legal costs of recourse to justice. You claim that any problems of non-compliance with labour law will be resolved by the digital working card. In fact, the digital working card is introduced after you have, however, previously relieved employers of the cost of the breach having abolished working hours and overtime. To be sure, however, the possibility of retrospective correction of the data submitted to the ERGAN is introduced. The new AAR, the independent authority you are evangelizing, which you are supposed to create to solve problems, will have as its principal competence to impose on employers who are not able to retrospectively correct their declarations to avoid the fines they may be imposed. In a bill introducing provisions to eliminate violence in the workplace, the Government institutionalises new forms of labour force by imposing individual contracts, making collective bargaining and claiming and trade union representation void. Without any consciousness of reality, you are putting in place persecutions and threats to the dismissal of trade unionists. You introduce a provision that is exterminated, intimidating and dissuasive for workers not to trade, with the famous civil responsibility for compensation for employers. You are establishing a preventive ban on the right to strike, providing that secondary or tertiary unions cannot strike for the same reason that the strike of a primary union was deemed illegal, while 90% you know that these are considered illegal. You are suspending the strike when there is a public dialogue. You are suspending the strike as a lever to secure workers' rights. [[At this point the end of the speaker's speaking time is ringing.]] This bill is a monument to the most extreme and antisocial neoliberalism. It is clearly undevelopmental, since it reduces the earnings of workers, their purchasing power, consumption and will also reduce the turnover of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. It multiplies the financial problems of the insurance system, since the reduction of jobs and wages automatically reduces the contributions of workers and employers to the insurance system. Together with the government's announcements, we are guided with mathematical accuracy in yet another bankruptcy of the social security system, in a self-esteeming prophecy of neoliberalism which, after creating the conditions of bankruptcy in the social state, then comes to claim that the social state is responsible for bankruptcy and society will only be saved by individuals. The bill further exacerbates the major problem of the country which is unemployment, part-time work and the absence of professional opportunities for young, women and long-term unemployed. In view of the fact that the New Democracy, instead of reducing unemployment, stipulates for all companies in the country that fewer jobs can be maintained than those who have been in use for more time, with less staff. In conclusion, this bill is so anti-Scientific that it has even forced a number of officials, former MPs and ministers of the New Democracy, IAEA trade unionists, scientific and social bodies, to publicly separate their position and to express their opposition to what the Government is clearly trying to establish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u594	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u595	We call on the Government, even at this very moment, to withdraw all the anti-government regulations contained in this bill, to recognise that it has made a mistake and not to continue to invest in a small portion of its policies, at risk of social cohesion and of working peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u596	We continue with Mr. Paulakis from SYRIZA, and then he is Mr. Bluchos, Mr. Athanasios, Mrs. Notopoulou and Mr. Karagunis to close the fourth circle of speakers and go to the fifteenth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u597	Thank you, Mr President. I will start my speech from a subject that was created the other day. Mr. Dendias protested in the Republic of Northern Macedonia and rightly did not comply with the Prespecies Agreement, because her athletes wore in their jersey "Macedonia" badge and not "North Macedonia". I should therefore like to inform Mr Teddy that he is going to float and fight the archaeological salizopher of Vouchala and the others, Mr Adoni Georgiadis, because when we ask that the Prespecies Agreement be applied, which is now a success and is not a betrayal, we must apply it ourselves. I have three papers here that are on the same subject. One has a date of 21-6-2019 SYRIZA government and the other two 18-11-2019 New Democracy Government and 14-6-2021 New Democracy Government. It concerns our participation in the INTERREG cross-border cooperation programme. It is the mandate of the Ministry of Economy and Development, Mr. Georgiadis. The same political leader signs to fund the programme our own contribution. There, therefore, it refers to the paper published on SYRIZA as "North Macedonia", "North Macedonia", while the two papers that came out on your day, you of the Macedonians, are referred to as "Macedonia" as well. I'm filing it here. [[At this point the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Because, in order to inform Mr Mitsotakis, it is not visible through the naked eye, because they are in length, they are 0.025 millimetres of the millionaire measure up to 0,25. So it's not visible. Let us say some truths, which are visible through the naked eye. Not even old-fashioned eyes, you don't see things like that. Well, let's just say some truths about the bill, Mr. Chacloglou, which Mr. Hatzidakis let you eat wood, and he went to sleep. I wanted to have him here tonight, because I owe him a lot from the far away 1987. Is it true or lies that with this bill you are turning us back to Chicago, unpaid work, eight-hour abolition by abolishing every worker's reaction, releasing redundancies? Is it true or lies - and now let the royal perimeters - with what you do with the eight-hour and ten-hours of every worker loses 150 euros a month? That's it. Secondly, is it true or lies that at the same time as Biden in the metropolitan city of capitalism, because he understands that there is a limit to depreciation of labour and wages, why is it triggering the spiral of crisis and unemployment through reducing demand, going on to double the hourly wage from $7 to $15? You come here, Mr. Tsakloglou and Mr. Hadjidakis and Mr. Mitsotakis, who are not here, like the renowned students of Friedman's Cannibal School in Chicago, of late sixty years, to legislate the return to the regression that sprinkled social catastrophe and social looting through the IMF's programmes on half the world. Didn't you get your lesson yet? Biden took it. Lead the Greek society not to the social contract of the previous period of capitalism of the two-thirds society, i.e. a third in hunger and two-thirds to groom it until they gossip, but you lead it to the society of eight or nine-tenths, which will be in hunger and one tenth will live well or very well. You are so blind, so stubborn, so ideological, so deaf that you do not understand that by eliminating a society, you lead to a complete disorganization of social life through wage devaluation and you make a redistribution to an upper 5%, which we see and your vision is for 80% of society an unreliable life? Is this the new social contract with most of the well paid jobs you've been proclaiming to bring? Serve and implement contracts of interaction that brought you to the government with the help of the media, driving the people out of a good crisis with all the undermining you have made and at the moment you are completing an attack, new devaluation of the labour force in the country, and at the same time redistribution and destruction of the small and medium-sized enterprises through a series of bills and the workout of the pandemic you have done. You are the FADs of 1980, who are taking - locusts and yapids we were talking about at the time - your vengeance towards society that during the 1970s and 1980s through struggles, governments, legislation and by means of a process he extracted a piece of goodwill that she produced for a better life. And who does this, why is this where you're going crazy? Hatzidakis, the political leader, does it, a man who has never worked in his life. With us at the C.E.A. with 87, 88. In 1988 he received a degree, left for a postgraduate degree, became a partner of your European Parliamentary Group, was appointed a Member since 1994, as soon as he returned after he was trained President of EMU and President of the IGC, the IGC and EMU. He was a 15-year-old MEP appointed and since 2007 a elected MEP. So this man, with Prime Minister Mitsotakis, who was the only job he did when he returned from his studies at Harvard, because he did not give here all the way to work at the National Bank through Karaja and the button his father did with Simitis, because this job he did. These people, then, who in this way found work and the other one never worked, legislates the abolition and dismantling of working time, unpaid work, unpaid overtime, destabilizing the social life of all workers. It won't pass you and it won't apply. I will finish my speech and I want a minute of your tolerance. At 11:00 this evening, your party made a announcement about me. It is not the first time - it has done so before - and it says: 'New Democracy, Paulakis questions vaccines. Let Tsipras take place." So here's what we're going to do, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. First of all, my science doesn't haggle with anyone. Secondly, in October and November last year I also did anti-corruption and anti-pulmonary, Pneumovir, what is for the first time in my life, because last year I had done a long and difficult treatment of bronchitis as a smoker. I've done all the vaccines. My girls had the vaccines. But I did the tested vaccines. And now to say a few truths again, because here we will not forget the medicine we know, because you have supported the entire story of dealing with pandemic in vaccines, and we have been calling you about some things since last year, and because your assigned political committee keeps a light on you, because we are acquainted with all my fellow Members, whom the questions I address to them as well. And I ask medically and to be answered medically and scientificly before he condemns me, as New Democracy says in its communication, Mr Tsipras and my party. Is it, then, true or lying that it is the first vaccine in the history of medicine, which is given massively to the population, any of these vaccines, from 'Sputnik' to 'PFHIZER', eight - nine months after the problem appeared? When was the next one given? Can you answer me? You're a doctor. It's three and a half years or five the next one given. Why did that happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u598	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u599	Because then it ends - not answer me specifically.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u600	The anti-grain.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u601	There's nothing you're talking about. You're lying. So, was there ever in the history of the medical vaccine, which you should do and don't know how long the immunity lasts? The anti-Greek we know is for a year. The antipulmonary I've done is for life.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u602	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u603	I shall conclude, Mr President. Another one I'm going to do next year is for five years. The coroner for how long is he? Answer me. It is true or lies that the initial phase 3 study of the ‘Pfhizer’, the known vaccine, in the existing publications and which can be found on the network in October, said Phase 3 in Genarris, after entering so many thousands that the study will have a statistically significant effect on this initial study.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u604	Mr. Comrade, you've taken an extra two and a half minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u605	I'm done. Is it true or lies that this study stopped 13 and said that we 'finished everything well', November 13th, three days after FBA obtained emergency approval?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u606	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u607	Is it true or lies that you're trying to cover the destructive management of the pandemic, when twelve and a half thousand dead, the eight and a half thousand of them are out of my mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u608	Mr. Comrade, you've reached ten minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u609	One final question: Is it true or lies that on the basis of Phase 3 studies of the three monoclonal antibodies that I was calling on you in November to bring you down from 70% to 90% the severe illness in vulnerable groups, namely, those who were finally dying and would we have escaped from 12 and a half thousand? That's what New Democracy should answer. That is what the Committee on Literary Affairs will answer. And we won't forget the medicine we know, because some people have supported their account in the mortar of some companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u610	Thank you. Mr Blucho has the floor from New Democracy. It is still to be spoken by many colleagues. When we're not within time frames...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u611	Mr. President, may I answer Mr. Polakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u612	Medically untie them elsewhere. When you have the floor, you will speak. Now, Mr. Blucho will be speaking. He's also Mr. Blue doctor, and he can solve the matter. But it's not a medical matter here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u613	You should have told the last guy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u614	Please. I can't tell the speaker what he'll say. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u615	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the luck of speaking after Mr Polakis, the former Minister. In any case, I do not know whether we have ever questioned his science. Its ethical approach, in particular, we are questioning the false dilemmas it poses. And I wonder why he's questioning our own science. But, here, it is Parliament and it is not a scientific conference to confront views. I also kept that the complexity, as Mr Paulakis said, has brought us to the government and not rather the tragicity of your days. It is impressive to monitor one’s monolithic thinking. I would also like to make a reference because they have spoken again with two excellent colleagues on medical or medical matters. It has been heard here talking about neoliberal punishment, or about a lot of medical medicine, about this neoliberal punishment, and about its commodity view, which the Government of New Democracy promotes or promotes. Ladies and gentlemen, medicine is one. I'm talking as a doctor now. Her cornerstone is respect for the sanctity and self-determination of the face. False dilemmas and enclosures, political canalisations and distortions, diversions and diversions that are technically present in our area, we as health servants must all go beyond them, respecting human dignity in the first place and, secondly, we are striving to salvage our own attitude with greater credibility and respect for this function. In addition, another colleague spoke, once again, about the disparities which have been mentioned at times - it is assumed - the Prime Minister of the country, but also that government. The government respects the right, ladies and gentlemen, to differ, respects discernible, excellence and speaks of differentiation. Homogenisation and levelling is the one that brings deafness and for it you and you are looking for toxicity, which eventually results in toxicity. I would like to make a brief comment on this, Mr President, and I would like to ask for an apologies - for the time being. It is a bill that changes a framework shaped since 1982, at a time with problems and labour data very different from today and at a time when they had in mind two objectives, on the one hand, state control by ignoring the international, European conditions that wanted to play a more active part in business and, on the other, in strengthening the power of the left-wing trade unions. The poorly understood trade union and the left have remained at the same and incomprehensible level since then, sedated in their sarcophagus, where it is slowly and firmly decomposed. After our ten-year crisis, and through the treatment of pandemic, we were violently introduced into unpapered fields, dominated in the form of a new working environment, but also in the search for a more efficient productive model. The regulation of workers' rights in these new forms is out of established trade union perceptions and therefore also reactions. The emergence of new and progressive policies by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis marks new trends and data that seem to be confusing to the so far known as progressive. And it is this government that is taking a step forward in supporting healthy, social and productive forces of work and workers. The timing of adjustment and perception will give the mark of our real recovery. At the opposite, of course, there is a risk of the trap of inertia, causing irreparable damage and historical regression. In this inertia, you have self-determination, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, mainly because of your reduced reflexive adaptation and the minimal production of essential policy and especially the perception of new political developments. Our Left, below modern requirements, fails to contribute fertilely and constructively to the newly formed context of the historical context, to combine a healthy model of development in a rapidly changing world. And yes, it would be a good surprise if your addiction did not consecrate you in your historical and sterile slogans, to help, even with different approaches, in shaping the framework of this new model. The consequence of this barren reaction is now to lose all right to your progressive identity. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, the real progressive political speech is not reflected in the beliefs of the past. What is needed and this government ensures is an agreement, a contract, a map of sincerity, but also a sound adaptation to the rapidly evolving socio-economic reality and international developments. History clearly shows you to perish permanently in the deformation of reality and in the creation of myths. This would make sense to you if you did not underestimate the Greek people so much, considering him, even part of it, as a legendary, and if there were no government for this credible leadership. And of course, it takes braveness to accept your ideological collapse, and since it's not there, you're propaganda or at least you're trying. And even though it is painful at the time of adaptation to produce essential policy, it is damaging and dangerous for the place to produce permanently offspring. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the worker is always the weakest place. However, you are also familiar with the fact that a worker in the real private sector is not represented by trade unions. There is also a trade union sub-representation. The private trade unions actually express only workers in private law or almost public... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need your tolerance, Mr. President. ...that is to say, the big businesses, which have used to be ubiquitous businesses. The bill is rational. It is clear, however, that we must define what is rational. Electronic working card, flexibilities in the working hours, Labour inspectorate as an independent authority and hence the fact that the over-most of the businesses include between one and five workers who do not differ from their employer, workers who live the anxiety of their employer to survive as well. Here are some factors that, with your cries and your triumphs of racing mobilizations, or the caramels about neoliberalism and willotsism, the opposition would like to be ignored. However, the conditions for the termination of the contract have become tougher with the bill. Flexibility in working time - I am sure, some will disagree - may have many beneficial effects. We need an institutional balance, ladies and gentlemen, to save jobs and entrepreneurship. To conclude, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u616	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u617	Well, you let me comment a little on Mr Polakis and other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u618	I'm not leaving anyone. A year is taking advantage of it, as everyone wants. But please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u619	It's shocking to see some cartoons, which you want to ignore at the last time I've watched laughing for ever and reveal the absolute indulgence of the psalmology in which you're resorting to, drugizing the fighters. Rather those who ignore such cartoons, the more you will wonder about your demographic impotence. The second one says: "The law is reactionary because it brings him right. So, comrade, if we brought it, would it be all right? Yeah. Laws are like jokes. Some people know how to say it and some don't." And the other: "In the end of the day, the majority of the workers learn about the existence of strikes from the suffering they suffer to go to work. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will help to clarify historically the distortionrs from the progressives. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u620	Ladies and gentlemen, I have also told the previous speaker, Mr Polakis, that I would also say to you, Mr Blucho, that the rest of us will hear it. Know that the last speaker will speak half an hour, forty-five minutes, so they will actually go at 3.00 p.m. and. We are now continuing with Mr. Athanasios from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u621	Thank you, Mr President. Whilst the New Democracy colleague who went to Stepma spoke, I was thinking about how much things might change within the same party. I was conceiving, in other words, that people who went through New Democracy as MPs and as ministers today are characterised as traitors. And because he spoke of an ideological collapse of SYRIZA, I will read out a few words from a statement issued today by Mr Savvas Tsitourides, former Minister, Crinio Kanellopoulou, former MP, Christos Zois, former Minister, Mars Spelliotopoulos, former Minister, Nikos Stavroyiannis, former Minister, Evangelos Antonaros, former Minister, who say that under the pretext of improving competitiveness and supporting the employer and medium-sized establishment, New Democracy today brings this bill back to the past. These are traitors for you today. I don't know if New Democracy feels well, Mr. Professor. Mr Tsakloglu, I am glad that you are here today, because I will invoke your qualities, your teachership and your responsibility at the Ministry of Labour. It suits me to what I mean. Because I confess to losing my temper. I generally regard myself as a cool man, but I lose my temper when some present themselves as pioneers, even invoking their studies in brilliant universities, while they are back-guards and the universities they invoke say quite the opposite of what they stand for. Why did you bring this bill? What do you want to achieve? The economic purpose he serves I don't understand. Let's leave the digital card, paternity leave, harassment ban. This is the spoon sweet you buy to find a chance to stab. You say that other countries of the European Union have done the same, not all but many. Oh, no? Why haven't the others done it? Did you look? What's going on here? The Portuguese embassy is on the opposite side of the sidewalk, just a few meters away. Go and bring the corresponding article 66 of your bill, which leads the workers made redundant to the courts. Let's see, is there an article like that? What's the point? Do you want with this bill to fight unemployment? That should be your job, that's why it's called the Ministry of Labour. The studies contradict the view that wage costs and flexibility in the labour market face the problem of competitiveness, Professor. I'm not going to testify to them in the Minutes. We all have to know them. After 2009 competitiveness improved in terms of unit labour costs and deteriorated in terms of prices and even export prices. This shows that the decrease in labour costs was not translated into benefits at export prices in order to be competitive and to gain higher market shares. Wages fell, but product prices did not fall. Who was it? Did the Balkan-type vehibarok businessmen of the shiny Greek kits? Do you want names? I don't mean you personally, but read the cosmic columns. They're your friends. While you appearing pioneers, then, you have no idea what happens elsewhere. Some here represent the super-educated, but they don't follow the economic developments in America, where Trump and Hungary would enchant you where Orban would enchant you. I think you are also insulting neoliberalism, as you express those of the Balkan type of entrepreneurs. Neoliberalism has known for thirty years that it must combat unemployment. They didn't tell you in Columbia? I recall - to exploit your qualities - American Professor Robert Reich, State Secretary for Social Services in Governance Bill Clinton. "What is the greatest deity of neoliberalism," he asked. 'Agriculture' means the production of agricultural products and the processing "Agriculture grows or minimizes the market," he was asking again. 'Smalls'. That's right. A computer can be produced in Malaysia, but they must buy it in New York and the unemployed cannot buy it. As unemployment shortens the market, we must combat it. And they did. What are you doing? You offer cheap overtime to block recruitment. You think they'll congratulate you on the veiling capitalism that you introduce at the time when Biden strengthens liquidity. Wanting and not coming to my mind New Democracy MP Costas Javaras, who said: "Politicians will again become officials of history and cease acting as officials of interest". Who are the employees of the interests? Tell me. Mr. Javarras said something else as important as that. "The worst form of populism can be shown to be reformist populism". So who are the hooligans of reformist populism? So why did you bring this bill and why now? Who pushed you? Some people pushed you. You may have decided on your own, but then you will belong to those unfortunate people who see in their living room, who think they see the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u622	Thank you for the time, Mr Athanasios. We are now continuing with Mrs Notopoulou. Next is Mr. Karagunis, Mr. Tarantilis, Mr. Paschalides, Mr. Spirtzis, Mr. Markou, Mr. Psychogios and OK. Burns.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u623	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the biggest crisis for the place and for the citizens, when insecurity has nurtured in every house, your Government instead of supporting workers, instead of putting a shield of protection, is literally attacking the world of work. With a flagrant anti-democratic, anti-labourist, anti-constitutional, anti-social, reactionary bill, authoritarian and anti-democratic, as only the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis knows, you are attempting to abolish labour rights that were won with struggles a century ago. You are a government which, from the first day on, has been legislating at the order and order of BSE at the expense of the social majority. Legislation for very specific economic interests. And while pandemic and governmental manipulation have brought a huge blow to our country - 12 thousand are human losses so far - you have found another golden opportunity. You have rushed to dismantle and dismantle labour relations. The programmes you brought were programmes that only ensured at the end of the day are unemployment. You have led most workers to work or to be suspended with EUR 534, you have led them to unemployment, you have literally led them to hunger. You lowered the APRD. Unprotected workers. No control at all. Those who entered quarantine were forced to work unpaid overtime while you abolished the right reason for dismissal, unleashed the front and full assault on the collective agreements. You deceived them. So is sectoral. What did you do? Reduction of income, new padlocks, new cycle of growth of unemployment. And of course a new recession. In fact, according to an investigation by UNECE, the level of living and employment of workers is already unreliable. And so you come today in this landscape of absolute uncertainty, destabilization, in this climate of fear, at this stage of extreme poverty of society, faithful to your extreme neoliberal plan to bring the country back to a redeadlock. What can you do? To date, do the incidents of employers' arbitrariness a legalized normality. Deep reactionary are the arrangements you bring. It's at the expense of work. So, let's see what you are without shame and with a lot of challenge you call a charitable bill, what exactly it brings. Remove eight hours and five days of work through individual contracts. You are relying on the claim that relations between workers and employers are a relationship of equality when it comes to an intrinsically unequal relationship, a relationship of absolute dependence. Let us take concrete examples. A two-year past service maid, due to the sectoral contract in force until 2022, is entitled to a gross salary of EUR 1008. If it hadn't been for that industry, it would have been worth EUR 715. You are carrying a ten-hour week, and for the extra hours of work there is no pay but a day off. By the way, will the workers pay their debts to the household, shopping for the children, rent for the employees? You bring more overtime, a hundred and fifty a year, and you reduce overtime pay. You give the employer the opportunity to place the worker on unpaid leave when you don't need him. Release hours, remove Sunday holidays for a number of branches. So, in fact, eight hours can be done up to thirteen hours of work at very low cost. This rupture works as a stimulus for new intakes. It's dissuasively working on new recruitments. Since the employer will be able to meet the needs of his business by extinguishing, increasing the working hours of existing workers, then they will obviously not even hire seasonal workers. The combined negative impact of all the above arrangements on your bill will actually cost at least thirty - eight thousand full-time jobs. In fact, on the basis of what analyses, on the basis of what assessments you are talking about today in the morning about recovery of the economy when you are legislating for unemployment and redundancies, when you consider that you will increase revenues not from an increase in consumption but from decompression of labour and a reduction in pay? Reactively all these developments. You lead to abusive redundancies, uncontrolled redundancies. Alas, if the worker dares to go to the employer and say that he does not agree to work on Sundays or that he cannot adapt to parallel or dangerous health requirements of the employer. Then it's probably the dismissal awaits him. You are once again hitting those who have been stubbornly targeting young people, young people and women who work mainly with part-time work, as you also give them the opportunity to break working hours. You are, of course, abolishing the Labour Inspectorate and dismantling any control mechanism. So, what do you promise with this kind of charity bill of yours? Exhaust hours, overtime unpaid, unemployment, unpaid work, redundancies. You are actually driving the young to another Brain Drain. And I ask you. Is that what the place needs? A working middle age needs the place in the greatest crisis he's experienced? It is not just employment rights, it is democracy itself. Catalyst everything with sacrifices, with struggles, has been and has been guaranteed as components of modern Greek democracy, effectively abolishing the right to strike, protection of trade unions or trade unionism. Ladies and gentlemen, for the whole bill, the positions in committee were catastrophic. The Association of Judges and Prosecutors states that the vote of the bill is an institutional regression while the workers throughout the country were calling you "we want to live with dignity". So it's very reasonable to be afraid. You have lost your credibility and the confidence of the Greek people. It is absolutely expected that an authoritarian government will try to intimidate the Greek people and control the trade union movement. In your plans, however, you have not calculated the need for the Greek people to live with dignity. You have not taken into account the passion of the Greek people to fight for the right. You have not taken into account the faith of our people in young people and young people in the very future. This is because you have been socially isolated. You only hear the well paid out of state media money to smuggle you all day but you did not hear the workers who with mass strikes throughout your country sent you a strong message. It is these workers who are determined and determined to leave this plan on the papers, which will actually cancel this bill an abortion, which will actually cancel your plan to turn us into the middle-age labor. So, for one thing, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you can be sure. That this bill will be abolished by the progressive and democratic forces of the country and you will also get a lasting day.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u624	Thank you very much, Mrs Notopoulou, for the time. We continue with Mr. Karagunis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u625	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, we have heard what Mr Paulakis has actually said about vaccinations earlier. And I heard him earlier specialize in his position, following his post, why should the citizens not be vaccinated today. He has presented scientific knowledge and opinions that obviously prevail over knowledge and the World Health Organisation and our own Committee on Limitology. She questioned her and canceled her. In particular, the scientific knowledge provided by Mr Paulakis prevails over the harsh reality of the twelve thousand dead in our country and millions worldwide. What really matters no more is what Paulis says. It matters what Mr. Tsipras says. And let me say that it matters what you, SYRIZA Members, are saying. I did see you applauding him with too much warmth. I really want to know, ladies and gentlemen, what you think of what Mr Paulakis says. I have not seen, so far, both colleagues who have risen up on your part to take a position. I want you to tell us. Clearly today it was placed against vaccination by indirectly urging the world not to be vaccinated, since he himself also quoted his own medical knowledge that there is no safety in vaccines. The question is clear. First of all, to Mr. Tsipras. It will condemn these statements or embodies them. Are you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, adopting these statements or will you condemn them? I am waiting for Mr Springy to come up and tell us as a former Minister who also has his institutional position, what he thinks of vaccinations. I would very much like you, Mr Spirtzi, to tell us what you think of vaccinations and whether this is a comprehensive SYRIZA view.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u626	Why did you withdraw AstraZeneca?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u627	You come and tell us, Mr. Colleague, I don't know if you're talking later - what you're doing in the end. Whether you believe them or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u628	We're being vaccinated. But why did you withdraw AstraZeneca?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u629	Gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u630	Many people would like to know exactly what you have to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u631	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u632	We'll wait and hear. This debate is very interesting, because it is not about Mr Polakis, but about SYRIZA as a whole. And as long as you do not take a position - because I have listened to colleagues who have not taken a position - I do not know if you are adopting them. You have to tell us. Mr. Colleague, this is not a simple case when we have 12 thousand dead and million dead all over the world. It's not a simple case of him going out and saying what everyone wants and saying his personal point of view. Does that also concern you as a whole as a party and a party? Come and tell us! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to come to the issue of the bill, because it is too late. I think there has been a very substantial and productive debate. The very positive changes brought about by the bill to the workplace, which are taking place in a very critical period of time. Greece is trying to make a total reset in the economy and competitiveness, a re-start that, in recent years, most of Europe's countries have already succeeded. Several Balkan countries have made progress and are even going beyond us. In order to understand the reality a little, I will only mention some examples of Balkan countries. Romania is currently close to EUR 250 billion of GDP. The Czech Republic has a little more than that, and Poland already exceeds 500 billion. Obviously not only am I talking about total GDP, but also about per capita in combination with the purchasing power rate - dear Mr Taradili, which you know very well - which are clearly outweighed by us. Until now these countries have literally seen our backs, and today they are leading, because they have moved on to very brave reforms throughout their entire economy. In particular, because they have made significant changes in the workplace. We are talking about states which were communist, and indeed some of them, such as Poland, were freed from the trade union movements. So look at these countries which industrial relations have prevailed. The truth is that that is where the absolutely flexible and free labour relations have prevailed. What have these countries actually done? They copyed the American and Anglo-Saxon model. And let me remind you of something, and let everyone take their own conclusions. Unemployment in these countries is almost zero. The Czech Republic has 3%, Poland and Romania has 5%, while France has 12%, Spain 15% and Italy over 10%. I say this because these countries unfortunately have our competitors, because we are obviously not alone and should not forget. One could argue that the more the labour market regulates, the more unemployment rises. That's what the numbers show. I, ladies and gentlemen, cannot claim that. Because, with what has unfortunately been the situation pan-Europeanally, the European acquis that our country has faithfully followed is putting a strong veil of protection on the workers. But what I can certainly say is that, as long as supply and demand are not allowed to balance so much, it is not possible to find viable solutions. Let us not forget that developments really tend to get over us and youth, our children know it even better. Does anyone think in this Chamber or the world watching that the fourth industrial revolution is not already here? They think they do not know that the automation of the economy, the new technologies, the robotisation of industry and, in general, the labour market will not bring about a major blow to the decline in the labour market? Instead of the debate taking place in terms of the future and the enormous challenges that we will face, we are still talking about the conditions of the industrial revolution. We are, unfortunately, talking about the terms of the past. Ladies and gentlemen, our aim with these changes, as the Minister told you, is not to put the workers to our attention, as you are desperately trying to claim, but rather to protect them while respecting the European Social Charter and adopting the best practices that will enable us to ensure the major one. And what's that? To reduce unemployment and, above all, to make the job more representative. And I say this in the sense that the distortions in the labour market actually create two categories of workers: the privileged within the system and the non-preferential ones, those who are trying to find jobs and who do not find them, not because they are not qualified or because there are no needs, but because precisely in many, truly uncertainties in labour law, they distort the supply and demand and the mechanism of merit that should be the key to me to balance supply and demand in a truly free economy. So those who invest in so-called protectionism instead of protecting workers create years of unemployment, distort employment relations, promote adequacy and ultimately act as a mechanism for protecting a few privileges. So we're not with the privileged. We're with the underprivileged. We're not with the few. We're with the many. And I think that these innovative changes that we are trying to bring, especially SYRIZA, are unfortunately trying to cancel any attempt with a chip of the past that has nothing to do with today and especially with the needs of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u633	We are now continuing with Mr Taradili from New Democracy. Then there's Mr. Burnus, Mr. Paschalidis, Mr. Spirtzis, Mr. Markou, and we're finishing with Mr. Psychogios.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u634	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has made clear not only in the words but also in the projects that it will strive to create a country that is viable for the coming generations, choosing the path of reforms for a more prosperous tomorrow. The Ministry of Labour has taken into account proposals from scientific and trade union bodies as well as the best European policies, recommends a series of modernisation arrangements. The aim is to support the work, the family and the economy. In order to achieve the objective, the replacement and completion of arrangements reflecting the data before the 1980s and thus do not face the current problems of workers. In particular, a major innovation in the bill is the implementation of the digital working card, which guarantees equality and transparency. It is a new instrument which will enable the undeclared or alleged work to be stopped, which always harms workers and the state. This will also involve the creation of the new Independent Labour Inspectorate according to the standards of the ADI and the National Transparency Authority. The eight-hour, five-day, weekend is confirmed and institutionally protected. The same goes for ensuring overtime. On the other hand, the worker is given the opportunity at his request and without increasing his working hours to be able to adjust time and the working environment on the basis of the proposed arrangements for teleworking. A few days after the adoption of the institutional framework for teleworking in the public sector, the government is proposing arrangements for similar rights in the private sector too. voluntary nature, the same rights and obligations as workers at the premises of the undertaking, the costs of teleworking by the employer and the right to disconnect workers after the time-limit and their permits. Furthermore, the establishment of a framework for protection and trade rights for workers on digital platforms is indeed complementing the legal vacuum that existed. A charitable sign is undeniably the arrangements which satisfy the standard and lawful demand for an equalisation of workers' allowances with those of employees. Also, the extension of cases of invalid dismissal, such as the protection of the father for six months after the birth of each child. Proof of a modern favoured state is the introduction of new permits for parents and informal caregivers and protection against dismissal, thus encouraging the balance of professional and family life by helping to tackle the demographic problem and enhance gender equality, but also by supporting people with chronic diseases and disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is also proposing measures both preventive and repressive to deal with violence and harassment at work. Greece is therefore one of the first countries in the world to ratify the International Labour Organisation Convention 190 by extending the existing protection of all categories of workers and even applicants for employment. Also in the common interest is the ratification of Convention 187 on Safety and Health at Work, since according to the International Labour Organisation figures, more than two million workers' deaths are caused by occupational diseases and accidents. It is therefore very important that the draft law adds an article to the drafting of an annual national programme for health and safety at work with specific principles and specifications. Let me stand by the proposed arrangements for trade unionism. It is a question of respect for workers' trade unions to increase transparency in trade unionism and of providing for measures which, of course, protect the constitutional right to strike, equally protect the social group from bad practices and arbitrary practices that have been arousing us for decades. Ladies and gentlemen, work is one of the most important factors not only in social and economic terms, but also in personal development, an integral component of the development and prosperity of all of us. This draft law proposes solutions to old requests, to time problems, but also to new requests. So let us try to look at the new prospects without blindfolds and use them for a better post-COVID era. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u635	Thank you very much. Mr Burnus has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u636	Thank you, Mr President. I honestly wonder where you are all so enthusiastic about making the most shameful distortion of reality, flying teratology and outrageous lies because it seems to you to be convenient to talk about protecting work in this bill, even about protecting against redundancies in Article 66, which releases them. Everything you do breathes the spirit and practice of the new "true" right. They have the seal of the Fake News, which you have been doing for four years, and the protection that your Chief enjoys from the least-informed, protection that is mutually and appears in this bill. The minister who brought this bill was gloating for weeks on the channels to propaganda it on his own, without a copy, with stationed journalists who acted like posters of Mr Mitsotakis. Where have you seen this before? What democracy have you seen this before? The bill is hostile to society. It hurts both the workers and the unemployed and the economy itself. The bill combines 'old-sea' ideas with despair and contempt for ordinary workers. It is not just a bill for the benefit of the employer. Moreover, the bodies representing small employers condemned it. It is a bill that, like all that comes out of the circles of Mr. Mitsotakis, favours specific parts of the employer and certain portions of Greek entrepreneurship. In fact, it serves those businesses that do not expect to grow from the increase in productivity, from innovation, from investment, from the integration of technology, but from the traditional undoing of workers, the intensity of their exploitation, the legalisation of arbitraryness, the predicament of wages and their time. Moreover, this entrepreneurship, predatorship and parasiticism, is the backbone of the Greek right. This bill rewards the worst employers, those who do not compete with better products and higher productivity and with more quality work, but those who want to compete simply at lower costs, those who make the workers fuel, because such workers bring your bill. This is the cheap and increased overtime referred to in Article 58, this is the ten-hour work without additional remuneration and with an individual and not a collective contract, simply with a management right. And I do not claim here that Mr Hatzidakis, Mr Mitsotakis and their friends do not know about the unequal relationship between an employer and an employer, and that they do not understand that labour law and collective agreements, particularly in Europe for which you are allegedly being cut, have been invented precisely to compensate for this inequality. You know that, and that's why you're tearing it apart. And what can you say about the undeclared fixed working hours for parttime workers? I mean, extra hours in uncontinuous hours. All day long the employee at the service of the employer, especially considering how often parttime work is the preferred form of employment for mothers. It's what you care about birth and family. And as if that were not enough, you are also going to expand on Sunday work. It is that you represent the party of the church and the family values. Such a fumara you sell to our religious fellow citizens and to the polyten associations. And you're getting more and more employees from dozens of branches working Sundays at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises, which they can't follow. Because if the couriers did not work on Sundays, melting down the streets every day, it seems that the friends of the government who recently invested in courier companies could not buy a second kerosene. Did they write you the order? Evidently with such arrangements, which only crush workers and distract more than the same number of workers, the satisfaction of the greatest need for the Greek economy is removed, the reduction of unemployment, new recruitment and the expansion of businesses to be translated into new jobs. In a country with enormous unemployment and enormous precariousness you make it easier for employers to minimize the need for new recruitments. That's gonna be fine, too. In the same spirit, workers are being crushed in practice, and the dismissal of redundancies and the abolition of the re-employment of the worker and the free payment of overtime wages in conditions of pandemic, even economic crisis. And if the worker wanted to resort to the Labour Inspectorate, you have taken care of it. We were proud of the reconstruction of the Labour Inspectorate. For the first time the country had a job inspectorate who did its job and could make it even better with proper support in the future. For the first time the banks ate fines and the staff addresses of large companies feared the APR and the fines for overtime. For the first time working mothers went home early and their children saw earlier. I'm talking about you caring about the families. Make the APRC an independent authority to become like the other authorities who complain about a lack of staff and resources and no one is accountable. Because the question is that you do not have a political responsibility for violating labour legislation. And in case the workers want to get off on strike, and that's where you're taking care of it. If the strike is judged to be illegal and abusive, as is the case with 90% of the strikes, it is forbidden to reopen the strike from the secondary syndicate and to introduce civil liability for the compensation of employers to the detriment of trade unions and ordinary strikes. With pretexts of psychological violence against strikers, armed corpse for strikers when are you going to establish? Unthinkable things. This is political atrocity. Unionism and collective action are constitutionally regulated in Greece and are self-evident for European democracies. Promote entrepreneurship that melts employees but invests in good relations with right-wing ministers and Prime Ministers to facilitate them with favourable legislation and decisions. Enhance the parasiticism and anti-productive anti-productive malignancies of Greece as the right-wing governments built it. You are legalizing and generalizing work practices that are abusive and antisocial. You are mainly afflicting the ordinary people, those who are anyway kneeled after ten years of austerity in a country that has always had low wages and arbitrariness in the labour market. You're bringing in the busiest ones. That's what no one will forgive you. Know that these disgraceful laws will be abolished even if it is the last thing we will do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u637	Thank you. Now we are continuing with Mr Pascalides from New Democracy. Next, Mr. Spitzis, Mr. Marcus and Mr. Psychogios. They have changed, many have been deleted, and many have asked that they may be able to speak tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u638	Mr. President... (It has not been heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u639	A colleague of yours just called that the pressure was up and could not have come. What can I tell you? I'm not taking the decision. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u640	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is a modern European bill for adapting our legislation to technological developments and social requirements of our time on the basis of what is happening in the most advanced countries of the European Union. It is a serious attempt to deal with known labour market problems, such as black labour, unpaid overtime, opacity objections to trade unionism and violence. At the same time, it is a bill that introduces modern European practices, strengthens the competitiveness of the Greek economy, but also the balance of professional and family life with regulations such as the adjustment of work, the paternity leave of 14 days and the parental leave of four months and years. Besides, let us not forget that much of this is about incorporating European Directive 2019/1158 which was signed by SYRIZA in June 2019 shortly before the elections. And I mention this in order to highlight the scale of SYRIZA's hypocrisy, which, once again, is using the technique of terrorizing workers by the appropriate perversion process and the well-known propagandaist phrase of the type "drinks the five-day labour, devastates, returns to the middle ages and feudalism" and the other ones well known have grabbed the opportunity to come out of obscurity for so long. However, the provisions under discussion that are supposed to be abolishing the eighth hour are nothing more than the so-called arrangement of working time that Greek legislation has previously recognised and which, since the 1990s, has found full regulatory imprint in the working time directives of the European Union which Greece should apply, but also in all the countries of the Union. More specifically, the institution of the settlement, like the institution of overtime, is two international and certainly European institutions that have been in place for several decades in Europe and Greece. In our country the institution of the settlement has been introduced by the law of 1892/1990 amended with corresponding provisions of law in 1998, 2000, 2005, 2010 and 2011. Also by increasing overtime in 50 hours for both industry and other sectors, thus approaching the European average overtime, the worker is given the opportunity to increase his income. If the worker now opts for the time-setting system - because I stress it is a worker's choice - the additional hours will be stored in a time bank with the contribution of the digital working card and returned to him within six months in the form of a reduced working hours or a day-out or leave days. The profit for the worker is that, through the arrangement, he can guarantee - if he wishes - a four-day working week without a reduction in earnings. As far as the working card is concerned, the worker will be hitting his card when he starts and when he finishes his work. The card will be linked directly to an online system of "ERGANI II" and in this way, in real time, the overtime, overtime and overtime will be recorded and the related consequences, claims for extra pay by the worker and penalties for the employer will immediately be incurred. So the digital card will play a decisive role in the protection of the eighth, in the reduction of black work, in the maintenance of the time of the catcher and in the adjustment of working time, as the locked overtime that the employer has to pay or offset can be recorded online. Any presence at the workplace of a worker who has not activated the digital working card will bring serious administrative sanctions. Also with the draft legislation under discussion, in particular Article 102, the question of the evolution of the Labour Inspectorate into an independent authority is dealt with in order to ensure the effectiveness of public administration in the area of control of compliance with labour and insurance legislation and not to remove the presumption of credibility and objectivity. Of course, the irrationality of counter-population reaches such a point that it even opposes the upgrading of the Labour Inspectorate and its subsequent disconnection from a Ministry of Labour. To conclude, I should like to refer to the strike regulation, first of all, stressing that the right to strike is guaranteed in all the countries of the European Union and is guaranteed in our Constitution and is self-evidently enshrined in the new labour protection bill. However, the new regulations provide for a ban on the revalidation of strikes that have been deemed illegal against the same employer and on the same date as other trade unions with a view to avoiding circumvention of the banning of judicial decisions. In order to protect the rights of citizens and the public interest which outweighs everyone, the minimum guaranteed service of 33% in sectors of general interest, such as transport, waste collection, is also established, i.e. sectors which are of vital importance in meeting the needs of society as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, it is now enough with the distortion to defend the privileges of certain ministries and trade unionists. Put your backs finally for a new Greece that is modern, competitive and adapted to technological economic developments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u641	And we thank you for the time. We are now continuing with Mr SYRIZA and there are still two colleagues left. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u642	Thank you very much, Mr President. And to congratulate you in the Chair when the majority of the Bureau have forced us to have the debate at this time so that the Greek people do not listen. But the Greek people will hear all the revelations that will be made. And I'm starting with what Mr. Karagunis asked. Our extrapolation and Paul Paulakis are in favor of vaccination. And he even stood in line to make vaccines, not like you who sent your executives to the beginning throughout Greece. Secondly, our proliferation and Paul Paulakis do not trade hope through vaccines, and what he has told you months now, to deal with the problem, is to throw money into public health, structures and medicines. And you have sacrificed six thousand of our fellow citizens. Mr. Karaguni, you are a very experienced lawman, and I appreciate you very much. When our president, Alexis Tsipras said you were undisturbed about 'AstraZeneca', the media and your party were bowling once again. Now you're trying it for Paul Paul Paul. Tell us about 'AstraZeneca'. You gave it to hundreds of thousands of young people and you've banned it now? You put them in jeopardy? Do they have responsibility for those who did it, the government?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u644	No, no one. You also have a responsibility for them, and you have at least six thousand of our fellow citizens who have died, with your responsibility, with your omissions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u645	You're falsifying the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u646	Of course you have a responsibility and you're hiding them...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u647	We're not hiding anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u648	And you're hiding it with your friend Sotiris and the set-up committees. We must also congratulate the Minister for Labour, Mr Hatzidakis, who shows his arrogance and does not honour us with his presence. It shows how honors the bill. I am also different here from my party, my colleagues and other colleagues, because the bill, ladies and gentlemen, is not Mr Hatzidakis's, and we will then prove it in documentary form. They brought it to him, he's working. Mediation does, like UBER one thing. It is the remnant of the work of previous memoranda that they did not have time to do in 2015 and before. May I wish the children who are pan-Hellenic exams, making a promise - to them from the Step of the House, to their parents, to the children who are in the pandemic trying and targeted by the government - that this bill for their families, for their own future, for their quality of life will be overthrown. It will be overturned along with the final state of Mitsotakis. The barbarity of the Mitsotakis government will be overthrown and replaced by a progressive government and very soon, a government that respects young people and society. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill and public positions, including those of the conservative party, prove that the deep division of the line today is among the market forces - that is, the Mitsotakis Government and those who support it - and the other forces that are with society, with the healthy productive forces, with the workers, with the unemployed, with the development, with youth, not with the airplanes, not with the comrade, as the JRC said, of interests. And I don't need to present all the disgusting provisions that are contained. Not only did my colleagues from SYRIZA, my comrades, but from all parties in anti-population, say so. They're not all crazy. Of course, it is shameful that you bring such a bill into the pan-Hellenic and you want, by means of social automation, to charge it to the trade unionists and them to charge them in SYRIZA. I will try to give Mr Hatzidakis answers to what he said from the Step forward of Parliament, to highlight the pragmatism, the lies, the misery that prevails, the ways in which Ne New Democracy and the state and the government handled and how he made fun of the Greek people. I read from today's position. "I'm proud," he says. Mr Hatzidakis is proud that he saved 1,000 euros a day from OLYMPIAKI - so he said today - 2,000,000 euros from OSE - and that is why he is proud - and for PPC. That's what he did and he told us he was proud. As far as OLYMPIAKI is concerned, we did not save EUR 1 000 000 per day, Mr Hatzidakis. Give it to him, Mr. Undersecretary, please very much. They sold it for a euro, for a minimum, to Mr Vageopoulos and then to Mr AEGEAN. But Mr. Hatzidakis did not tell us how much Mr. Vgenopoulos won the next day, black, selling the slots of "OLYMPIAKIS" at all the airports in the world. He didn't tell us that. Didn't he tell us, when we took over in 2015, how many employees had he loaded the Greek State, how many pilots in the FAO who didn't even come to drink coffee, how many were flying to foreign companies and getting their salary every month, how many did he get to the pension from "OLYMPIAKI"? Did he not tell us how he gave the largest roof of "OLYMPIAKIS" to "Eleftherios Venizelos" that is still closed? He didn't tell us that. He did not tell us how he buried 16.5 billion won by OSE supposedly, 16 billion state aids, which if TRAINOSE and TRAINOSE were not privatised by their operations, the country would pay 16 billion. He didn't tell us that, he's proud! Of course, PPC did not tell us that in a month, from where it was to close it - do you remember that, when New Democracy took over, PPC - as a deficit, became healthy and had surpluses and where is the average electricity price at what height? This is your work. Who cares about it? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Proud of Mr. Hatzidakis. But to go to the 'TRAINOSE' for which he is proud. How many routes have they been cut from all over Greece? You have made the "TRAINOSE" CBS with your inability. From Thessaloniki to Alexandroupolis you have not put "Silver Arlos" two years now. You abolished the basement in Patras. You didn't put the line for saint. Two years! And you're trying to load them to SYRIZA. See how this nice thing said? You're, he says, working fathers and Mr. Hatzidakis is with society. He has a strange sense of society, but he has a strange feeling for the workers. And he tried below to charge us both to the S.S.S.S.H.S., to operate the metro. Let's see. The S.H.I.E.L.D. has nine unions. In everything...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u649	Mr. Comrade, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u650	I need a couple of minutes. Only we stayed until this hour, five people, give us two minutes. Nine trade unions shall participate in all or as presidents or as Secretary-General, trade unionists of the New Democracy. In U.S., the buses are the same. Are the SYRIZA people who have carried you on their back all these years? Aren't you ashamed to mock them like that, swear them over? On your back they carry Hajidakis together. Is the president a SYRIZA? Is the secretary a SYRIZA or a New Democracy for the last ten years? At the ADEDY, up to two months ago - because she's not together now - the president was an AACC. Why did it stop two months ago being at the AACC? Why did you nominate him in substance, distorting the ESC, the President of the ESC, and forced him to resign, making the two years four. And in the bill, this gentleman with qualifications - whom he shouldn't have been there, tell Mr Stakoura - defines in the new APRC the independent authority. Mr. Hatzidakis has a weakness with the independent authorities. He wants to control them. That is how he did the Competition Committee, with Kyttzakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u651	Please, finish it. You asked for two minutes, three minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u652	You're right. I'm filing two things to stay in the Minutes. The first is police workers. There's no problem with Hatzidakis and New Democracy and more specifically with BSE. You'll see. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] You went to the police schools to those who were nominated in a roustephic way and wrote them in the BSE union massively, without applying for it. If you look at the photos, it's occadon and the two trade unionists talk. If he did this to a student or another trade unionist, the university police would go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u653	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u654	I'm done. And, of course, there you can answer the trade unionists of STEVEA, Mr Dumas and Mr Mavroidakos who are there in the photographs, what role they play in DIAH and DRAGY.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u655	Please, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u656	They're talking to us, Mr. President, about the workers who belong to SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u657	You've reached eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u658	Police workers. And we're going to 2010.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u659	But now, please. No, I don't. Now you're up to twelve minutes. Finish it, please. They are still two colleagues to finish. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u660	I deposited the 2010 BSE with NSRF money all that's in the bill. What a fine suggestion! Thirty proposals for a healthy entrepreneurship. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Since 2010 you have had the bill ready. You brought it here as mediators...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u661	You do not respect the two SYRIZA colleagues who are here waiting for you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u662	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u663	Not me. I'm waiting anyway. I'm four hours and twenty minutes. It's not my problem another 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u664	You're right, but I'm closing. So our society, ladies and gentlemen, is neither the Golden Boys nor your bankers nor your business friends who go down with a helicopter in Mykonos and have no impact in the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u665	I'm sorry, Mr. Spirtzi. Is that correct what you're doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u666	Our society is the society that works, the society that has shops, which are small and medium-sized, who are workers, who are unemployed, who are young, and they will overthrow you with this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u667	We continue with Mr. Marcus from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u668	Oh, Mr. President, take a picture. It's Mr. Hatzidakis' cake. He's proud too!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u669	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u670	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like Mr Hatzidakis to be here, not to honour me as Minister - I do not want to underestimate you - but to complete around thirteen and fourteen hours of work. And since everyone knows that in his life he's never worked - the product of the party tube is - he understands what it means to work ten and fourteen hours, first and second and third days, but for the workers he'll be every day, and Mr. Hatzidakis will get his day off, so to experience what 12 and 13 hours of work. That's why I'd like her to be here. Today, of course, ladies and gentlemen, he had the lies of the day from New Democracy and the make news of the day. Mrs. Kerameou illegally declared the OLEME strike, which does not participate in the strike, so that the pan-Hellenic tests are not disturbed. And make sure she says she was declared illegal. Good luck to the fighters. Unfortunately, about twenty - five to thirty thousand of them less than last year will not enter universities, but this is another conversation. The second take news of the day by New Democracy is that SYRIZA is against vaccines. So at the beginning of the pandemic came out that it's against the mask, collapsed, ridiculed, now it's against the vaccines and they're again ridiculed. On this basis, I would prefer to trouble you these five to six minutes, not to repeat the misery of the bill - the speakers told us - and Minister, you know them and you do not have to tell you so many times. I will tell you three - four things politically, if you allow me, to hear something else, at some point you see as Paul Saul on the road to Damascus and become Paul. Work is a peculiar human way of interaction with the environment. In discernment to the other living creatures that produce under pressure of immediate physical need, man produces even when free from this need, capable of producing in accordance with his standards and of imposing on each object his own physical standard. That is why it also produces in accordance with the laws of harmony, beauty. That's why he can work with a little bite or he's got taste in his job. It is so important that work on the human being is the one that defines it. The deepening of its social character means that man as a subject of production becomes the creation of all civilization, of all the conquered human history. The government tries values such as progress, equality, solidarity, collective welfare and security to be replaced by values such as individuality, efficiency and strict labour morality. By depositing individual contracts of employment and weakening collective labour law, it forms an environment where human beings and the worker become harmless. The worker ends up becoming a merchandise himself. It is purely a matter of luck if he can find for himself and his work a buyer will be able to sell him successfully, i.e. profitable, the only commodity he has, his work. It is suppressed spiritually and physically, degraded to the level of a machine, becomes an abstract activity and is increasingly dependent on market and exchange value fluctuations, capital attitudes and wealth disposal. The supermarkets will be opened by 23 June at 7 p.m. and will close 12 p.m. and 4 p.m. at night. Listen, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Your bill is not only contrary to my personal ideology, but also to the humanitarian values and policies that my party defends and is in an absolute extent in my ethics as a doctor. Your inspiring invention may be taken by the employer to settle the work of the worker individually for up to fourteen hours a day and pay it off seriously harms the health of our fellow citizens under your responsibility. Watch two important things. The World Health Organisation and the International Labour Organisation, ILO, published a study warning that work over eleven hours a day may cause serious problems to the health of the worker. This year, it was published in 2021. This study has been based on the method of meta-analysis, i.e. it is a synthesis of research studies that have been carried out in the past on a specific subject in order to draw a comprehensive conclusion. I will testify to these studies and I hope that on the days off you will take from this exterminating three-day day to take a look at them. I'm not very optimistic. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Marcou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] WHO's general secretary, Tedros Gemregesus, pointed out on the occasion of this study in 2021 that no job is worth taking the risk of a stroke or heart disease. The irony is that the International Labour Organisation, ILO, involved in this investigation, is a body whose contract you bring to ratification in the first part of the bill. Of course, if you are interested in the ILO's requirements, that you prescribe them in order to mislead them, and that you bring some positive measures is evident throughout the rest of the bill, because the convention itself in Article 5 urges States to promote fundamental principles and labour rights, namely the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining which you are weakened to extinction. Ladies and gentlemen, the 21st century began as a time of counter-revolution, collapses and lost hopes, times of the destruction of every humanitarian ideal - their institutions are, of this destruction - times of mocking, but also times of indignation, spontaneous protest movements, signs of new forms of passage from historically outdated capitalism to new sustainable forms of collective social coexistence. The old one that comes today as a youth, what you bring, drags on old corporations and brings old rotten rotten rotten mussels that are now humiliated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u671	Thank you for the time. Mr. Psychoyus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u672	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by wishing, from the step of the House, good luck and good strength for children who give a full-scale examination, this great battle, without any support from the state in the midst of a pandemic, like the educational community. In fact, they were targeted and swept by the government. Good power, then, and good success to all and all. Ladies and gentlemen, one would prefer to speak sincerely with one another. "Leave the tale," then the people say. And it's a fairy tale of your story in this bill because you really remember Orwell in 1984, where liberation was matched by enslavement. Or you may also be enthusiasts of urban society, where workers are equal to employers. Apart from serving the interests of BSE and major groups, your vision of work, development and society in general, with workers of 300 euros, flexible terrified, usually contracted, exiled, in individuality and away from claims, unsafe, at any time with Damocles breaking off the dismissal over their heads, with hours-tire, with no family and social life. And even though, Minister, you've seen this model, implemented it and failed, you know, bring it back here in front of us and in the middle of a pandemic. As some Members have said about reduced social reflexes of the SYRIZA in these matters, I should like to start by saying that we are two worlds in all of this - and I think you admit that - two plans, however much as some are trying to present them as they are, or rather the same. The world of work is well aware of that, ladies and gentlemen. Supermarket workers and hotels that saw an increase in their wages know it and they say it. SYRIZA is a valid reason for dismissal and protection of contract workers. In New Democracy, you were the first to dismantle. Judicial means forging the public in OTAs and in the Ministry of Culture created permanent posts in contractors who were hostages in years. You abolished it. Hundreds of tripartite conferences on SYRIZA resolved to work for unions with examples from Corinthia. The Ministry does not even carry out three-ways now, except in a few cases, without solving any issue, and indeed, with this bill it is attacking and threatening unions and trade unions that raise such issues and reach the Ministry to put them. On SYRIZA collective labour agreements, the extension of the compulsory requirement to several branches and wage increases. In the New Democracy and in your bill an individual contract. Absolute foam of collective labour law. I wonder what I'm going to do with my books of Collective Labour Law. I'll call it back when SYRIZA's government arrives. Increase in minimum wage and decision for EUR 751 until 2021 on SYRIZA. Fixing and reducing the minimum wage with the 534 euros that you gave to suspensions and overtime with departure from New Democracy. On the SYRIZA, millions of fines in large groups and banks are being fined to the extent that banks send out messages to workers that they have to leave at 17.00 hours so they don't have to be punished, because they will pay the bank. Such was their consistency and fear for the APR. So the ACF is falling apart from the first moment of your governance. You have completely dismantled it and anyone who goes out into society knows it and what happens and you are completely leveling it up with the independent authority. Reduction of unemployment of 10 units in SYRIZA, with permanent full-time posts, with contractors, with OAS programmes. Reducing jobs and increasing working hours - tire you are going to do where the employer will not have to take any more. Minimize recruitment while you have one by one. OAED programmes which do not work, culminating in the termination of the programme of young scientists of the five and a half thousand, forests and others at the moment where a solution was being given to both workers and services. And now let's go say this. This bill hurts everyone. The Greek society must listen to this. It does not only affect workers in the private or public sectors, especially young people. It hits small and medium-sized ones because it reduces income. It hurts the freelance professionals. It hurts farmers as well. That's why we went to the populace because you're preparing another bill that's tearing this conquest out. You've been able to turn us back centuries along with work. And that's where the consumption will be reduced. You're making it all elastic. Dissolve family life without leaving any program and introduce the law of the jungle into the labour market, where the most powerful will survive. Instead of going back to 30-hour, to four days of work, such as in Spain, to strengthen the purchasing power of workers in a model of development from the bottom to the bottom, not from the top to the bottom, from the powerful who are going to create supposedly jobs or investment which, unfortunately, not to the real economy save money in offshore. And by the technological means that must be to the benefit of workers, the quality and level of their lives. We already have a government hard neoliberal and far-right on many aspects of it, as objects that I mainly handle in the parliamentary group. The government has, however, been forced - so that the Greek people can hear it too - to get back and to suspend political decisions and legislation. You can be sure, then, that the same will be done with this bill, Minister. Be sure that a government of the Left and the progressive forces will put this abortion where he deserves it, that is to say, in the time of the darkest and medieval times that turns us. You're older than the old one. But you are underscusing the future of society, which is suffering 11 years and wants support, to cash out notes. Because, then, she has lived on this, she will soon seek it and get what she deserves. So we will be at the forefront today and always with them and with the workers, but also those affected by this double crisis that we are experiencing and from the one that comes and which you are cultivating. All together we must demand a democratic state, modern, in the demands of times, with social justice, a distribution of wealth to those producing it and a decent living for all who should be assured in the 21st century. What are we talking about? Of course we promise you, in addition to voting against the bill, which is given by us, that we will try in every means and manner that we have, both inside and outside Parliament, to make you a reality the fear you always have, that the future belongs to the world of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u673	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-15-S1-commons.u674	With the consent of the House, 2.59' is the meeting for Wednesday, 16 June 2021 at 9.00' on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, continuation of the discussion of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "For Protection of Labour - Recommendation of the Independent Authority "Working Inspection" - Clearing of the Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation to eliminate violence and harassment in the world of work - Settlement of the Convention 187 of the International Labour Organisation on the Framework for the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work - Incorporation of Directive (EU) 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the balance between professional and private life".
