ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Evangelos Liakos, Member of the West Attica, the following:]] MANUFACTURING AUTHORISATION HOLDERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH [[To enter page 1a]] B. REQUESTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In a written document, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Koutnatzis, informs the House that the topical questions to be discussed today are as follows: Question No 589-22-2021 will be answered by the Minister of Migration and Asylum Mr. Panagiotis Mitarakis. Question No 581/19-3-2021 will be answered by the Minister of Tourism, Mr Theocharis Theocharis. Questions Nos 584/19-3-2021 and 593/22-32021 will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Domna - Maria Michaelidou. Question No 574/17-3-2021 will be answered by the Secretary of State for Culture and Sport, Eleftherios Aegeanakis. We therefore move on to the fourth debate under No 589-23-2021 on the first question from MP B1's North Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister for Immigration and Asylum, on the subject: 'Request for residents of Lesvos to host refugees and immigrants'. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Metarakis, thank you very much for being here to answer my question today. I'm going straight to the point. The situation in the euphemism reception centres, which, in my opinion, are approximately detention centres, you know it better than I do, you are the Minister responsible. It is a situation that you will agree with - I imagine - with me that if you do not call it unacceptable, as I do, you will say that it is not the right thing to do. We have seen in the last few days that images have come to the public that all of us must be ashamed of for them and Greece and the European Union and we as people for our history, for our western civilisation and for the humanism that we must hide within us. You know, Mr Mitarakis, I usually feel proud about the questions I ask, because they are questions that either touch large social groups, who are wrongful, or very vulnerable social groups. Today has a peculiarity. I'm very deeply moved by these other Greeks, who come from where you don't expect it. So these Greeks in Lesvos asked for it. They said, we from our surplus and while we have suffered the memorials and while we have economic weaknesses and while we have passed the coronary and perhaps the heaviest winter, from the fall of our humanity we open up our homes and want to host people who mistreated too much in structures, which, as you know very often lack electricity, lack heat, sometimes times and water during the day. I understand that you are human and that you are not in the mood to trouble refugees and I want to ask you directly two simple questions. Given that there is this citizens' initiative and there are several citizens - I will explain to you in my dentistry - in the most difficult conditions created by the coronary pandemic, is there any framework in which local residents could temporarily host people who are forced to live in reception centres? And if not, can it be established by you, by the state, immediately, a framework that sets out terms and rules that will apply both to refugees and immigrants and to residents? Second question: Can our state, in cooperation with the European Union, show human and political will and find funding and funds to create an organised body that ensures that no human will lose his life? You know, it's creepy that possibility within structures that have no current, as I said to you, often they don't have water and they don't have heating and all that in Greece, in the European Union of 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Gregoriadis, your question is indeed very important and gives me the opportunity to speak about the problems that really exist in Lesvos. First of all, I would like to say that our country accepted a very large number of refugees and immigrants in 2015-2019 and that reached the national reception system on its borders, which in 2020 exceeded, when we had reached Moria to have twenty-one thousand asylum seekers in a structure that had been built for two thousand four hundred people. This has led to a huge problem of congestion in the five Aegean islands, which have accepted maximum migratory flows. Since then, we have launched an ambitious disarmament program and the 2/3 of asylum seekers, who were in Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Kos and Leros 12 months ago, have now been transferred to mainland Greece. Some forty thousand people were transferred to mainland Greece and eleven thousand five hundred left the country for other foreign countries. After the fire in Moria, I would remind you that several Member States have offered and there are already weekly flights directly from Lesvos to Germany but also to other European Union countries which have shown, in a Europe that still does not have institutionalised mechanisms of solidarity, that they are willing to contribute. Also, as you know, we have begun the construction of modern hosting structures in Samos, Kos, Lero, which will be completed in the summer and will now offer the necessary living conditions consistent with a European state and the humanitarian values of Europe. So this will work in Samos, Kos and Lero in the summer. We hope in Lesvos and Chios by the end of 2021. In Lesvos, we have a special case. There was the structure of Moria, which was burned in September 2020. We managed within four days to operate a temporary structure in Montenegro, which was not designed and there were no studies. It was done in an emergency to avoid the consequences of arson. Luckily, Moria was evacuated without any victims. The move to the new structure also took place without injuries. Then we were at a time when the pandemic was at a high level again. We managed to keep no loss of human life on any Aegean island as a result of the coronary. Host programs exist. The largest is the ESTIA programme, with which 50% of asylum seekers, who are in our country, are hosted in apartments. It is a programme that costs about EUR 80 million a year, which is financed entirely by the European Union. There was also the "FILOXENIA" program in hotels and at some point around the seventy-five hotels were used for this purpose. Unfortunately this programme has come to an end to its funding. From that point on, there will be a permanent solution in Lesvos in the year. Citizens' initiatives that want to help are always welcome. We haven't received anything. But I'm very happy to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Minister, for a straightforward answer and I thank you, above all, for admitting that the situation is not very human. I must remind you, however, that it is almost two years ago that you are ruling and, therefore, although you have found a very burdensome situation - there is no doubt at all, you will not deny it here - you should have found solutions to this situation within two years. I wanted to tell you - I don't know if you know - that in Lesvos it is already a hospitality for a day or two there. The alarming - morally disturbing - is that our policemen are responsible for the burden of this responsibility and are not responsible for them. It does not refer to a Greek policeman saying "You leave the structure, go to a house and if you don't come back, I'll find my trouble". Nor can the means of judging. As I will read to you below, the inhabitants of these islands, Minister, are calling for the creation of a body with a specific legal framework, specifying the rules and conditions under which refugees and immigrants will be able to host. I understand you said that their intention was welcome. They tell you that in order to do their intention, you need to create an institutional framework for them. In this case they say we will be able to create a list of names and all the necessary elements of the citizens who wish to accommodate people living within structures. The structures themselves will receive the availability and the experts - and not the police - will choose which refugees and immigrants will be able to accept the hospitality of the islanders, on the basis of vulnerability criteria or hierarchical criteria. It may be necessary to sign special forms or to create an emergency line. If the problem is the coronary, you know that it can be done rapid test, because it also happens that families who come from abroad, who study and, indeed, will contribute to further prevention for the spread of the epidemic on our islands. I would like to tell you that there is no legislation - you know - which prohibits the hospitality of refugees and not formally. Nor is it allowed, in formal and legal terms, to be prohibited or prohibited. We therefore urgently need a legal framework, and there is a need for these people from you, who will invoke it and ask for it first from the European Union. We know we're bankrupt, but we can make it. It's a matter of life and death for those people who are there. You know that I never plunder me, nor do I want to take it emotionally, but think that in 2021 these fellow humans are immigrants and refugees, who face harder conditions than ours during the Asia Minor Destruction, which took place more than a century ago. You understand he's a reproach for the whole continent. I'll close, Mr. Minister, after that. I do not know whether, when you were young or even now, you saw 'Star Trek'. So I'm going to read to you what the creator of this shocking - philosophically, I mean, in turn, Gene Rotenberg. He has said, "Star Trek" was an attempt to say that humanity will reach maturity and wisdom the day that will begin not only to tolerate but to draw particular pleasure from differences in ideas and life forms. If we cannot learn to enjoy these differences here sincerely and positively between our species, on our planet, then we are not worth going to space and coming into contact with the diversity that almost certainly exists out there." I said that and I'm closing up with it because I think it's important. You know, if we don't make it here, it makes no sense to create any breath and have any ambition to move to other planets. We should first solve the problems in this small pebble called 'Earth'. Thank you for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u8	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The reality is that we have spent difficult years with immigration, and now we have very much recovered control of the situation. We put in the Ministry of Immigration last year two goals. The first objective was a substantial reduction in the flow of more than 90%, as the flows have decreased substantially, the islands have been decongested from the very difficult conditions you described when Moria had twenty-two thousand people. Soon there will be a few thousand in Lesvos, very soon under five thousand. This is a very big difference, while by summer, if we have no tension in the flow, all the islands will be completely decongested. So now there is a substantial difference. Our second objective was to drastically limit the impact of the crisis on local communities and on all stakeholders. There's an organized hospitality program. It is the 'ESTIA' programme, which has a legal basis. We are working with twenty-fifths right now either non-governmental organisations or local development companies, which in an organised way offer some twenty-fifths of hospitality. I want to tell you that right now, the beneficiaries of hospitality in our country are forty thousand. So the maximum degree of hospitality makes him this program, which, apart from the apartments, also offers services of interpretation and social and psychological support for people. So there's a legal framework. From that point on, if anyone wants to get out of the 'ESTIA' and outside structures, they are allowed. He can declare his intention to remain alone in an apartment, either offered or rented. So we do not think there is a lack of a legal framework. There is the possibility of such support being provided, either temporarily or in the longer term. Of course, I will also raise an issue, which also needs attention to be paid to vulnerable groups. We can't get anyone who raises the hand, send vulnerable groups. Not to open another conversation. You realize what danger this may have. So, somehow, those who host, too, cannot be individual people who are not known. They must be organised non-governmental organisations, but they are certified and the staff they use are also audited, for example, that they do not have a criminal record that makes them dangerous or incapable of providing services to vulnerable people. So he needs attention. However, a non-structured hosting framework exists. It is currently entirely financed by the European Union. This financing shall expire on 31 December 2021. There is a more general issue with funding, as the new programme 2021-2027 is less than the programme of migration in the previous period and we are trying to find, with the European Commission, the appropriate financial instruments to maintain these positives that are currently operating in our country for immigration. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u10	We move to the first with number 574/17-32021 in the first cycle of the Parliamentary I of Piraeus and the Islands of Nea Panagiotas (Nonis) Dounia to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "Initiatives of the Ministry of Culture and Sport for the timely fight against harassment in the field of sport". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Eleftherios Augenakis. Mrs. Dunia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in recent months, a body of revelations has been brought to light with regard to phenomena of all forms of harassment in the field of sport. There have been surnamed complaints by renowned athletes about violence, threats and unacceptable behaviours that they have to face every day by coaches, federations in which they belonged or by other persons to whom some form of authority had been given, in order to slip into the sports area. We were all relieved that the Greek "MeToo" movement was also born, that is, a chain of successive revelations of similar incidents by women and men who were victims of such behaviour and, most importantly, of public support. Knowing your sensitivity to the subject and given the enormous importance of eliminating all forms of abuse in the field of sport, I believe that it is necessary for this positive movement to intensify and continue. The state must adopt long-term measures to combat such phenomena, which will form a form of security, that all the progress that has been made in recent times, with the MeToo, will never be lost and that our athletes will never again be forced to tolerate any kind of violence. So, I would like to ask you what initiatives the Ministry of Culture and Sport has taken to enable the Greek "MeToo" movement to combat violence and harassment in the sports area over time and to make the best use of the Greek "MeToo" movement in sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 'Strengthen fear, break silence' is our slogan on the occasion of all the things that have seen the light of publicity in recent years and you have also described, dear colleague. Thank you very much for the question you have asked me, since lately, on the basis of the complaints that have seen the light of publicity, it has opened a public debate on abuse of power, on powerless violence, on sexual harassment, and also on the abuse of athletes, beyond artists and other social spaces. On January 14th, I would remind you that we organized at the State Secretary for Sport an event entitled "Scrupulously Silence" within the framework of the Greek Presidency of the Council of Europe. The complaints they heard were the headline of a domino development. We have seen the urge to any man who has fallen victim to abuse of power and any other form of violence to break his silence. The Greek "MeToo" movement had begun and followed a chain of revelations and complaints of abuse by women and men. Unfortunately, our country has not so far made significant progress in recording, understanding and dealing with the phenomena of harassment and abuse. From the first moment we took up our duties, we have given particular importance to dealing with abuse and harassment. First we gave voice to the athletes and our athletes, we created a climate of confidence, and we gave everyone the strength to finally break their silence. Sport, as you well know, has a positive effect on society as a whole. At this time we saw once again the power of his influence and once again he inspires us with his values to create a more human society. And we are determined to achieve it. Let us briefly mention what we have done so far at institutional level. In the Council of Europe, within the framework of the Greek Presidency, we have worked out with our counterparts a common framework of principles, which is a common guide of policies, acceptable to the countries of the Council of Europe, namely forty-seven whole countries. As part of the European 'Start to Talk' programme, we are taking specific measures to combat sexual abuse in children with awareness-raising and dissemination actions. We have already implemented an important part of the sport reform and we are continuing in the next few weeks with a bill to come to Parliament. We have signed a memorandum of cooperation with the "Smile of the Child", with the Center for Family and Child Care, a memorandum of cooperation with the Red Cross. We support the HALT programme in terms of harassment and abuse and with our 'Sympathetics to Reform' initiative, we have discussed these issues publicly with athletes and union representatives. Five thousand representatives of amateur sports clubs from all over Greece participated in this interesting debate. At the same time, we went on to investigate complaints about abuse of power and mismanagement and the exercise of control. For example, after complaints about the Sailing Federation, we suspended all kinds of funding to the Federation, we requested management control by the National Transparency Authority and "from where" by the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority for Crime. With the encouragement “Share the Silence”, such complaints emerged, which immediately, without delay, were promoted to the Public Prosecutor for the Feds of Cancer, Banking Rescue, National Sports Federation of HEME, Counterfeiting, Basketballism. National Transparency Authority was immediately requested to check for the Feds of Cancer, Anti-Security, Badminton, while in earlier years we had requested control for the Basketball, Gymnastics, Athletics and Liquid Athletics Federations. In addition, before the complaints I mentioned, we had already proceeded with the judicial authorities to appoint temporary administrations in the Wars and Karate Federations. For the Federation of Fights there is already a public prosecutor's inquiry into complaints of sexual content. Also, complaints like the one published yesterday for Judo Federation by a former athlete continue to come. We've already done this. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In the second and with the President's permission I will be able to present a series of measures which we have announced and which have been implemented or are in the final phase of implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u14	Mrs. Dunia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u15	Undersecretary, I am very pleased to see that you have made every effort to ensure that the unacceptable incidents of violence and abuse that have been reported in recent years have occurred, and it seems that for decades they have been revealed, and as far as possible, as far as possible. Sport, as you know very well, is interwoven with physical and mental health. It is expressed by the athletic ideal and other important values and has nothing to do with or should have such morbid phenomena that trample human personality and dignity. Our athletes show us extremely high discipline every day, dedicating unlimited time from their lives and great energy to evolve into their sport and to make all of us proud of their discrimination. It is true that those who are involved in sport, as well as in sport, are willing to make too many sacrifices to develop sport. But between these sacrifices it is not included to tolerate or treat such abuses alone, as it certainly should not be necessary for any other fellow citizen to develop in whatever business sector he belongs to. The moves you have made at the Ministry of Culture and Sports since this whole story broke out with the complaints of athletes shows that the Greek "MeToo" will not be just a firework. Ensuring the long-term interest in athletes who fall victim to harassment makes me hopefully that we will not again witness such unpleasant phenomena and that even if we do not avoid them, the future response to such incidents will be instantly and assistance to the victims will be immediate and substantial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Greek "MeToo" has created an important opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to end harassment and abuse. This opportunity we won't let her go lost. In addition to what we have already done and mentioned before, we have already announced and proceeded with a number of initiatives: First, the Support for Sports Centre (Help Desk). Second, Sports Counselor. Third, Support Observatory. Fourth, integrity codes. Fifth, National Sports Research Center. Six, athletic psychology. Seventh, Institute for the Training of Sports Executives. Eighth, Sports Association Register. Ninth, coach record. Tenth, step by step of control of sports bodies. Eleventh, the 'HILON' programme, we measure, we assess, we improve. Twelfth, Digital Bible 2020-2025 and, thirteenth, spots and video messages. A month after these measures have been announced, we are already implementing the following. I am referring to: Sports Support Centre, Service that will welcome requests and questions from athletes, sports operators, actors and audiences, and will then respond to the resolution of procedural, operational, institutional issues and other issues that relate to our responsibilities. In fifteen to twenty days from now, from now on, the administrative structure will be ready for the operation of the centre, and we are already examining technical details. Supporter Observatory. A joint ministerial decision is already under way in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity to strengthen existing structures, to support athletes who are subject to any kind of abuse. We are recommending an Observatory to combat phenomena of powerless violence in sport and highlighting sport values in cooperation with the Olympians and other institutions. Integrity codes. First, code of conduct. We are creating something that will exist and be respected faithfully by sports federations and associations. They are, in essence, ethical principles in international standards for the rights and obligations of athletes and other bodies, in line with the ILO Code of Conduct and update of the Disciplinary Code and respect for the direction of the ILO authorities and the international federation of each sport. All this will enter into their final application immediately after the completion of the selection of the new administrations of all sports federations. National Sports Research Centre. We activate an important pillar that has been inactive for years. In cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance we create an online platform and electronic application for mobile phones that will include recording and posting ergonomic data, industrial, athletic, digital training, nutrition and psychology of the athlete, digitization of the athlete's health card, digital observatory and a series of other benefits, things that were fantasizing a few years ago unrealistically. Institute for training sports executives. In collaboration with the higher educational institutions, the Hellenic Olympic and Paralympic Committee creates the Institute of Training of Sports Executives. We create continuous training of managers, managers of all the amateur sports clubs in our country. However, in cooperation with the University of Peloponnese, we have organised the first course of online training seminars from March 16 to March 23, and participations have exceeded two thousand people, two thousand executives from amateur sports clubs. Participation was incredible and really very interesting. Sports Association Register. The first function of the registry was absolutely successful, despite what had been heard by representatives of the counterpopulation in here, for conspiracy, etc. You remember, too, but everyone watching us. However, with a new ministerial decision, the register returns, resumes immediately after the elections to the new administrations of the sports federations have been completed. Coach register. It has already been introduced by Law 4726/2020. In the past, extensive dialogue has taken place with stakeholders. In fact, last night we completed a last cycle of consultation with all the coaching people involved, and we will be in a position in the bill, which we will bring to Parliament in the next two - three weeks, to include the provisions that will resolve an issue that was open for about twenty-two years, in the words of the directly involved. Sports Agencies Control Scale. We are recommending a control mechanism to create correct controls on the registered elements of sports clubs in the register. You weren't written and forgotten. There will be ongoing checks to confirm the correctness of those who have been declared on the basis of which they have been registered. And I'm talking about sports clubs. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] 'Chillona' programme. We have already implemented this model last year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u18	But please, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u19	I shall conclude, Mr President. However, next week we update the ‘HALES’ programme with new elements in the direction we have already announced and increase the weight factor in good governance, athletic integrity and, of course, issues of proper gender representation on the board. Digital Paper 2020-2025. We're already working with the Department of Digital Policy. It is an agenda that will last well beyond 2025. Finally, spots and video messages. Already, a campaign is evolving through social media to promote anti-violence messages. The campaign has been sponsored in the air "Sport at the forefront" with messages and within a short period of time this campaign has reached the five hundred thousand users.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u20	Come on, Mr. Undersecretary, we have no choice. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u21	I shall conclude, Mr President. While more than three hundred thousand times the messages contained and promoted by this campaign were put forward. In the next year, we are organizing a new campaign called 'States' and an anti-Dong topics and addressing the manipulated races. The will is clear. No tolerance to such phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u22	We are now moving on to the third under number 584/19-3-2021, a topical question for the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Garyfallias (Liana) Kanelles to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The redundancies of a hundred and fifty supplementary workers in the Social Welfare Centres in the midst of a pandemic." Mrs Kanelli will answer Mrs Domna Michailidou. Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to point out to you that days that are painful and awkward all such questions and believe me, I hope not every such response. At some point, that is, to get an answer that stands. My party has asked you questions last year, in 2020, one in March and one in April, with which we have pointed out to you that at the "MATERA" Baby Center - it is not a centre, Mr. President - in the PIKPA of Voula, in Acetochori in Thessaloniki, in Agios Panteleimon, in Volos, in Piraeus there are children with increased needs. To these people it's not just that there's no staff but there's a lid and a pandemic. The fact that the whole world is missing personally knows about it. We have pointed this out to you, and we have tabled specific proposals. They are a hundred and fifty ancillary workers who exaggerate themselves and come a globe saying '31 March you are fired', a pandemic mediator, while we are talking about cheques. Man's mind doesn't fit! Theoretically and practically, when we look at it, the Ministry's answer is that they will be replaced by another hundred and fifty. They don't need time to adjust? They don't want to know where they are? Is it easy to develop relationships with these people, in these welfare centres, with increased needs? Will the Ministry's budget, the public budget, be blown? What will be blown into the air for these hundred and fifty workers? You should have come to tell us that you would get an extra hundred more than fifty more two hundred and three hundred more, and still not enough. And you're at this inappropriate moment, in the spring, on the pandemic, to throw away hundreds of fifty people from these institutions, from these centers? I want an answer that can withstand logic. I know you can put me down regulations here, five hundred and twenty-eight decisions, one hundred and twenty-three things, which will look legally correct and typical and you'll be okay and tell me that the workers knew, etc. Most of them, as adjuncts, are the ones making the job. You know that. It happens in hospitals. It happens in schools with the Deputy Teachers. All in replacement for a permanent and stable job comes and takes out the chestnuts from the fire, the snake from the hole and the oil burned from the frying pan! Are you going to throw away a hundred and fifty people?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u24	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kanelles, I think that either within or outside the parliamentary procedure from us or at least from me you get answers sincerely and I hope you are also essential. Now, with regard to the part of social care, as expressed through the social protection centres which our Ministry supervises, and especially the public bodies, our movements throughout this whole period, for a year and a half, show precisely this: how much priority for us is, above all, ensuring the health of all the beneficiaries, and also ensuring the occupational safety and health and well-being of the workers themselves. In this context, apart from having drawn up very substantial public health safety protocols, for both the beneficiaries and the workers, we have also taken all these steps to ensure that the workers themselves are assured. What do I mean by that? Already, since March 2020, I would remind you that we have hired five hundred people to all these structures, namely a third of those workers, to ensure that the beneficiaries of these institutions, those structures, can receive the services that we must provide to them and, at the same time, workers who are already working there, can be able to obtain a special leave if they themselves or their families are able to take care of their families and continue to care for and provide their services. You're pointing out something that's right. Unfortunately, our country is constantly prolonging contractors' proposals. This thing the previous government has done for social structures more than four times. In particular, between 2015 and 2018, the SYRIZA government extended four-fold contracts of contract within our structures. And that's a problem. Why is it a problem? Because these workers need us, they need the beneficiaries of these structures, and we have an obligation - not the right - to ensure the services provided to them in there. Our debt entails at least two things: one is that the constant needs of these institutions and structures are met, and the second is that the workers - that is where we agree - must not feel job insecurity. That is why we have put an end to this. What did we do? The previous government, six months before the elections, has declared three hundred and fifty positions through APA, the right procedure, which is provided for in the Constitution to cover three hundred and fifty positions in our structures. But he never ran this procedure. What did we do? The request was in December 2019. We ran it in July 2020 and now took the provisional tables. After a lot of work, after intensive co-operation with ASAP, the provisional tables came out. There, in fact, while the tables came out for all positions, and quite rightly the ADP provides for the procedure to be followed for specific moleculosis based on experience, almost half of the new positions are not ancillary. It's not these people, that is. And we believe in them, the state has invested in them and the structures have invested in them. I do not discriminate if subsidiaryes are better than permanent ones, but I know that everyone gives everything they can to our beneficiaries. So these hundred and fifty on the basis of the criteria of the ADP, which counts the moleculation, seems to be not in it. So we did two things - and I close with that, Mr President. In the next few days, two legislative regulations will come. We're prolonging the five-and-a-half temporary staff for another semester. Secondly, in order to help these hundred and fifty ancillarys who have not been in the notices of the AACC, precisely for them, we are prolonging the termination of contracts until the final tables are drawn up, so that through the procedure provided for in the AACC, they can complete their objections and, of course, if they are right, they can be justified and can continue their service within their own structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u26	Mrs. Canelley has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u27	Sounds encouraging. I like being honest. I am here today and you tell me that on 31st of the month these people will not be fired, they will continue to pay and will continue to offer their services. And you admit that it is one way or another necessary, even if approaches have been wrong in the past. After all, these five hundred you took will prove to be from the things, when we get out of the concept that a disease exists in Greece, the coronary, and they will have accumulated problems, that they need to. There's no other illness, there's nothing else. Five thousand surgeries have been deferred and I do not know how many people will come to us with real problems or the need for recourse to such centres when we go out with the good - and I hope this will soon be - from the pandemic. But look at that. It is the case of the work of people they already offer. Because if you didn't trust them, you wouldn't have kept them. He's not one of them useless. He's not one of them a man who can't offer to these structures. On the contrary, they are necessary. And when we start and enter the process with objections to maintain their bread, a policy that is too dangerous for both the future and for people's dreams and for their lives as well for both the state and the spirit, which is today. We cannot deal with the problems by recycled unemployment. To leave these hundred and fifty and to come some hundred and fifty in places that work and offer is a kind of recyclability of unemployment. And we have samples. You'll tell me why you're being suspicious while I come and tell you that I'm gonna give them the time to not get fired at this stage in the middle of the pandemic? I can't believe you're doing it from your good heart. There are no hands right now to come and help you. Trust me. Madam Minister, the day before yesterday I was at the 'MONDA'. I sincerely tell you, in this structure - and I do not want to say any details, because I do not want to expose anyone - when I arrived for a small tour, you know, in an open space, ten people scattered here and there, while all the measures are being taken, to see this issue before I put this question to you, I would like to see a girl who had fallen out of the stairs and had been pissed down and while I go in, she was screaming. Believe me, it took three quarters of an hour, because it could not be provided with any help. I've despaired, I'm telling you. What can I tell you? That I had to tie her leg with two pens and two charms until she got an ambulance? I'm not talking about something heroic. I'm talking about something real. The lottery was that an ambulance came and brought a baby, a kid from the province to "MATERA" and after he spent half an hour, three quarters the whole process to leave the ambulance the child, people out of the process were kind enough to take the girl to take her to the hospital! Needs are multiplied by things. And whatever machinery you can download, no matter how much technology you can download, as much as 5G and electronization of things, at critical time, and especially in such structures for children want, it wants pain, it wants professionalism, it wants to hurt the other, it wants hands. And these hands tend now to become an opportunity, an opportunity in the pandemic to slowly slip into privatization of structures for the child who is alone, for the child who is abandoned, for the man who has increased needs, for children who have problems and to build welfare structures that are profitable, exploitable pain of the other. And we won't get any Antonio Bandera and any ad with pills to make money for those who have learned to take advantage of each other's pain.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u28	Shut up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u29	So give a form of final solution. Those people who work there to simulate themselves. And make your calculations of how many people need after these people. They're the ones who'll pass the dog and they'll know the last hole in the jungle, both in terms of people and in terms of procedures, to hand over the doggie to the next. And it's an experience that you can't afford to face. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u30	Mrs Michaelidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Kanelle, you have been an experienced parliamentarian for many years. So you know - and I imagine you agree, because one is the Constitution of our country - that the AACC is the only legal procedure through which any public structure can be established. The APA is the only legal process and we believe in the experience of all our officials, all these workers, who have been working for years in our institutions, from five to eight years. And this thing has been trespassed and this process continues, as you quite rightly described it, but we did not legislate. Another government legislated her. She legislated her, took the comms, but she never ran. But for this reason, as soon as I came to this ministry and acknowledging that need, we ran these positions and came out. And just because we want people with experience, we want people who have kept our institutions on their backs to stay in them, we extend the contest until the objection procedure is resolved. But by hand to the heart you say, we have served our foundations. Over the last decade, our social institutions have never been with more people than today. They have 1/3 more people. Do we need another one? We might need another one. I will tell you, yes, that's why we need another one, and that's why we're in the process of collecting exactly - and because I know that you have something to do with the foundations - the information we need so that, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance, we can declare the positions that really need in our institutions so that we can have them organic and not do what you're saying. But now I want to stand from now on. I think you know that our foundations care about them and I really care about them. You say in your question: "The insistence on these redundancies reveals that they are another means of promoting the so-called dematerialisation and the closure of these structures by requiring entrepreneurs and the European Union". And continue a little further: "Specially as far as the child is concerned, alleviating the criteria for adoption and assumption, deforestation of services with decades of experience in these people are concerned, we fear it will lead to the marketing of children." And I have three things to say here. Firstly, I think we will agree that I am happy to receive from the president of the private child protection structure that came to my office last week, who said to me: "You, Mrs. Michailidou, with the recruitments you are making, you who do not let individuals into the YANY, you who do not let individuals run the "Home of the Child", you are also a more state-runer than Mrs.Photo." I'm no more a statist, but no one but the law that this House is voting on can decide who's getting a child. And alleviating the criteria, a unique alleviating criteria for adoption - assumption made, has been made in a direction that you will not disagree. This Parliament has voted to make it easier for families who already have a biological child with disabilities and to be able, if they want, to adopt or become contractors. I imagine that you, too, voted in favour. I don't remember. I hope you voted in favour of this. Families with a disabled child must be able, if social workers consider that they can adopt or become contractors. For the first time, we have put before this law that this House has passed, which, with full transparency and speed, can deal with adoptions and ascensions horizontally, electronically, anonymously and fully transparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u32	We move on to the first with number 593/22-32021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "It is unthinkable that the Greek Police should be transformed into a social worker for the children of detainees". The State Secretary, Mr Michailidou, will also reply here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President and Mrs Michaelidou. First of all, I should like to thank Mrs Michailidou publicly for having accepted, although it is a difficult question, because I had one thing to do last week, to come and discuss a week together. The problem obviously begins with some public announcements that in case there are minors living without parents or because the parents have been arrested or convicted or the parents are imprisoned, the care will come to EL.AS. To see who's responsible for the kids. Some other corrective statements were then made. I understand that the Minister is thinking of covering a gap that exists and not keeping these children without parents. However, any thought of engaging the Greek police in contacting the children or taking on a role that they should have - and in the rest of Europe they have - social services and social workers really creates horror to anyone who hears it. Because we are talking about services which are not trained to do so, about services that we have seen at the moment there are many issues, if you want, even mistreatment and police violence at least from one part of them. So, let alone, at this juncture and generally, there was no such feeling in society, with the latest incidents, can't be the police, which has not been trained, these people have not been trained to approach citizens. They have not been trained here how to approach minors during the audit process, to deal with infringements, etc. We cannot give her the role of the social worker. Nor can these children approach, or learn that their parent has been arrested by a police officer. This is a psychologist's job, it's a social worker's job. So, in closing, we ask you, Minister, to do the social services 24/7, because from what I understand this is one of your criteria that you give ELAS that works twenty-four hours a day. Make social services like other countries with 24-hour operation and under no circumstances involve the Greek Police in the approach of these minors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u34	Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, ladies and gentlemen, with your question, I am really given a unique opportunity to clarify all this communication madness which I have to say I have tried to clarify on the phone, but I should also like to say that the Greek citizens should also be able to listen to us in this regard. In your papers to be haunted, I read the following from the newspaper "AGEI" - I understand that it refers to another party, "AGEI", but it seems to be a government and now you are together - on 10 March: "Secretary of State for Labour and Social Affairs Mr. Domna Michailidou said to the State TV that, in cases where there are children living without parents, either because they have been arrested or sentenced or are imprisoned for care..." - the care that "AGEI" said that I told ERT - "will have EL.AS" to see who is responsible for children. Corresponding articles also touched the Civic Opposition which, through the mouth of the relevant department said: “Who morbid brain considers that the protection of minors is a matter that the police can handle? And all this because? Because..." says the relevant department, "...the Prime Minister was worried...", he says with ironic tone, "what the children of those who are arrested are." Well, Mr Arsenis, I told you before, and now I say this: these comments are also inappropriate and unacceptable. And why is that? The question should be exactly the opposite. The question should be this: Why so long have the previous governments, including yours with the ANELs and SYRIZA, done nothing about it? Why so long could there be a gap so that the kids would be alone at home or I don't know where else they could be? Why has there not been the horizontal directive in these two cases for so long? Who are these? In the event that we have minor children whose parents are arrested, the competent authorities should be informed horizontally. What are the competent agencies? The social workers of the relevant municipalities and the Judicial Prosecutors. In the second example, in all cases where the parents of minors are convicted by the competent criminal courts, there must be a horizontal obligation to inform the competent authorities. What are the relevant services again? The Public Prosecutor and the social services of the relevant municipalities. Who's responsible for doing this? In the first case, in order to define the relevant services universally and without escaping any child and being every child at home with his competent commissioner, the Greek Police must inform the competent authorities of the case. In the second case, which must inform the competent authorities, the prosecutors' prosecutors and the social services of the relevant municipalities, it is the court and there must be information within their parent's file that this person has minor children. We are a state that protects all children. Immortality reveals vulnerability for all children. We must ensure that no child is at home alone because neither patriotism nor empathy, nor the memory of the individual either a police officer or a judge, nor the competent authorities, nor the relevant social services of the municipalities and the prosecutors of the minors, so that they, the officials, can define their commissioner. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u36	Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I do not disagree with you that your intention is to fill a gap, I said it in protology. From what I understand from your prototype, and I would like you to clarify it in dentistry, what you have agreed with the Ministry of Protection is that there will be no police contact with these minors, if I understand correctly? That's what we're talking about here. Because if you're telling me that if the Greek police have to be responsible for informing social services and the prosecutor's office, yes, well, she's in trouble. Does the file have to report that there are minors? Yeah, well, that's right, what you're saying is right. She'll be in touch, she'll be up-to-date, she'll approach, she'll locate the kid a cop or not? If you plan to be approached by a police officer, it's obviously wrong and concerns are reasonable. If this is not included in intentions, then what you are going forward is correct, it is a procedural issue that was an empty. Indeed, we should see that there's a police officer responsible for informing the social services and getting into the file he's going to the prosecutor's office. So I'm waiting for your clarification, because what you need in any case is the right trained people, workers who will approach this child. They can only be psychologists and social workers. We need social services, which, like so many other countries, operate 24/7. This means staffing at both OTA and elsewhere is necessary. However, in no case can we accept - and it would be unacceptable - any suggestion to contact and inform a child's police officer about the situation of his or her parent or any other relevant situation. There's not much education. There are similar other skills which are well-trained. So we want this clear clarification from you to know where we are and how worrying the situation is. I told you. As far as the procedural procedure you have presented in your prototype is concerned, it is all good. Is there gonna be a police contact with the juveniles or not? If there is, please change it immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u38	Mrs. Michaelidou, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Repeat the mother of all learning! I can't believe you don't understand. Really, Mr. Arseni. But what I think is that the opposition - and you in it - is trying to do what goes through your hand when we cover a very substantial gap in coordination for child protection, rather than applauding us for that and hide your absence when you govern this place. The chief of your party, if I remember correctly, was Minister of Finance of this government and I'd rather not expand on the rest of the things...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u40	You know how many ministers...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u41	Mr Arseni, really, we don't have a dialogue here. What I mean to say is: the EL.AS. and Greek justice in the context of their powers have access to the certificate of family status of the persons arrested or sentenced. Since both authorities and EL.AS. And Greek justice, they have access to the family status certificate, what we say is without any contact with the child itself being able to ensure that the child is not left alone. Does it see either the police or the justice that these parents have a minor child? What has to be done is automatically, not whenever they remember, not if they are sensitive that they are already saying - what sensitive, their obligation is - once one is either arrested or sentenced, that those two authorities can automatically and horizontally inform the competent authorities. Who are these? The municipality's social services and the Public Prosecutors' Office. These competent authorities, therefore, and only, as foreseen, will come horizontally, which has not so far been provided for, following a Circular of the Ministry of Civil Protection and Justice to ensure that the competent authorities are informed. And so the competent authorities themselves, the Prosecutors' Prosecutors and the Social Services of the Municipalities, can inform and determine who will be the commissioner of these children. This position - and I would like to put it before you - is documented by his announcement and by the Association of Social Workers of Greece. I read by word: 'It is undeniable and institutionally guaranteed that information about the absence of a protective environment for a minor is an obligation for all public officials and must be respected by everyone as a priority. The care of minors and the support of their families is the responsibility of social services and officials in close cooperation with the competent judicial authorities and public prosecutors. Cooperation..." says the SKLAE "... the police officers with the judicial authorities and the competent social services is self-evident on the basis of the rule of law and the good of the protection of minors." [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Mr Arseni, the question is not why we ensure that no child is left alone, but why so long no one has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u42	We shall now proceed to the last question to which the Minister for Tourism, Mr Theocharis, will reply. This is the second under number 581/19-32021 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament Kilkis of the Change Movement Mr.Georgios Fragidis to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "The need for an integrated plan for the safe opening and recovery of tourism". Here, Mr. Francis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the economy and society in our country have been hard hit by its pandemic and consequences for a year. Tourism by a main feeder of the Greek economy was turned into a great patient. On a health level we experience the peak of the third wave of the pandemic, with the National Health System accepting a suffocating pressure. Despite the strict measures of the government, the virus has not been intercepted and the situation has not been dealt with effectively. This has happened for a number of reasons, such as the insufficient support of the National Health System, the long-term imposition of horizontal quarantine measures that has tired citizens without result and poor surveillance of the implementation of the measures. The government has decided to open up the economy and tourist activity to the impasse of the collapse. On 9 March, Minister, you announced 14 May as the official start date for the tourist season in 2021. You also announced the existence of a plan for the opening of tourism, referring to some parts of it, and talking about pilot implementation in April, but without specifying its content. Businesses and workers in the industry do not know exactly what protocols are called to implement and are unable to make timely planning, since there is no clear and organised framework or, at least, it has not yet been communicated. And tourists do not feel so safe to travel. This is demonstrated by the minimum reservations reported by hoteliers and tourist agents. At the same time, however, countries such as Cyprus have already presented a detailed plan. And from what experts say, in 2021 revenues will be about 40% of 2019 revenues. However, this can only be done on condition and if the emphasis on health, survival and enhancement of businesses and workers and the upgrading of the tourist product is emphasised. Questions, Mr. Minister: Firstly, is there a concrete and comprehensive plan to support and relaunch tourism capable of meeting the conditions established by the pandemic and what is its exact content? And, secondly, does the government intend to give brave support to businesses and the tourist industry, given that there is also funding for this from the European Union?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u44	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President, but I would like to thank Mr Françidis more. We had about a similar conversation a year ago. At that time you had tabled a plan again and you were talking about a lack of a plan by the government, that we did not have a plan, and we could not open it. The reality has, of course, disproved these expectations. And we had a plan and we opened it, and we safely did it despite the cries of the counterpopulation. I am not talking about you personally, Mr Francis, because you are a politician who is counted. The attempt of counterpopulation to defamate our country as to whether it is safe has proved to be short-sighted. Eventually, it didn't work out. I would remind you of the cries of the Officer's counter-population of about 3 billion revenues, which were finally misguided, because we had much more. Of course, I wish we had more. We are not happy with any revenue, but we are pleased that our country has really strengthened its image abroad, its image as a safe destination. And that was, if you would like, the proposal you made last year in your plan: to shape Greece's image as a safe destination. You understand, of course, that this is not a plan, to say that we need to shape our country's image as a safe destination. We need to work, implement the opening, make sure that anyone who wants to come to our country can come - these fewer than usual, six million are not negligible - because there are relationships, we have worked with all the other countries to avoid restrictions, etc. Of course, when they come, they will have this grid of experience and security that will make them have fun, because no one wants to go on vacation in a hospital environment and of course not just to have fun, but to be safe and to come back. This has been done successfully, which is recognised internationally. The award of our country, the Ministry and the EOT as the best tourist player worldwide proves it. The awards for the safety of our airport as the fifth safest airport in the world of AEGEAN as the fourth safest airline in the world and a number of private companies, hotels, travel agencies, etc., in various security and quality contests prove the truth. The last argument, of course, that the Opposition had for last year that tourism may have endangered the country's health, proves incorrect and incorrect. In September and August when we had the largest number of tourists in our country, we did not have the second and third waves. The second and third waves came when they came to the rest of Europe. They came about the end of October, even a week or ten days later than other countries that do not have tourism like Greece. But I don't want to insist on yesterday. I would like to go to your question today and say a few words. We shall also have the opportunity, Mr President, to avoid a long debate. It's the easiest question to agree with you. There is an urgent need for an integrated plan for the safe opening and recovery of tourism. Indeed, Mr Francisco, we agree. Perhaps the debate will be over here. But we have presented this plan and you are giving me the opportunity - and I thank you for that - to give some more details of the information. I hope they help you. I will talk about this now and we will be able to talk - if you like - more about the issue of support in my dentistry. Our plan tells us this: First of all, its aim is to make use of every opportunity to do so, since the pandemic allows us to do so. The government does not place the health of citizens at any second degree. Always - it has been proved since the first day of the pandemic - the government is putting the health of citizens first. So when and since the government's measures allow it - the wave which hits all Europe and all the world still - last week the Krone cases have increased worldwide - we will take advantage of the relaunching plan when this carpet occurs. What does the re-start plan say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u46	We will not now make a presentation of the New Democracy plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u47	It is only five points, Mr President, to explain them to Mr Françidis. He'll give him, if you want, wealth so that he can do his dentistry. Firstly, for someone to come to our country either to be vaccinated or to have recovered from the disease or to have a negative test. We are the first country - on 12 January - to propose this in the letter from Mr Mitsotakis to Europe and now Europe is slowly moving in that direction. Secondly, when it comes, it will be subjected to a sample check at the airport with the innovative EVA system. Thirdly, we now have the rapid test and so we will immediately know who is positive and who is not. We won't need the PCRs to look for them twenty-four hours later. Fourthly, there are isolation hotels and they will be able to isolate automatically. Fifthly, the protocols that apply know them and know what business needs to do. Now we'll see to them improvements in the next few days, so with this year's experience we can. These protocols we'll keep. Thank you publicly to the businesses that last year kept them in full for the safety of tourists. Sixthly, vaccination, as a matter of priority, after the vulnerable population of tourist workers, will allow for the establishment of an immunity wall, a wall of confidence between citizens and tourists and enable us to keep everyone healthy and safe. This is a plan with beginnings, middles and endings, Mr. Francis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Francis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u49	Minister, whether or not our assessments last year were true and not, the responses are given to tourism and the workers themselves and they know very well what a difficult situation they are. So I heard your proposals before, and I would like to say that the safe opening and recovery of tourism depends on many factors. First of all, it is health assurance, as you have said. Reinforcement of health structures, therefore, especially at tourist destinations. We hear all such relevant announcements, but we see no action. After all, the dramatic health situation in Athens reminiscent of Thessaloniki was not controlled. And we ask you, how will you strengthen regional structures? After so long that we finally pointed this out to you, you proceeded with the requisition of private doctors without, however, clear and smooth conditions of integration, especially in matters of civil liability. It's about time private clinics got into the game. As far as vaccination is concerned, first of all, priority needs to be given to proven workers in tourism, namely to make the vaccine, immediately after vulnerable groups and the elderly. Second, regular rapid test for all workers who do not accept to do the vaccine. Thirdly, increasing rapid test and correct case tracking, mainly to tourists on the road in Greece, as is done in northern Greece. But we always know that vaccination alone is not enough for health safety. Fourthly, clear and up-to-date protocols that will govern the entire range of the operation of tourism and travel, but protocols applicable to avoid last year's old age costs in Greek tourism. Focus on bilateral agreements with good epidemiological states and with advanced vaccination phase. Air travel, cruise, school trips unfortunately move in a blurred landscape. It takes clarification and what will happen if a traveler is ill, what hotel he will go to and what will be done with the members of his family. The backbone of tourism is business and workers and must be supported targeted and effectively. The government has so far failed to provide radical solutions to their problems, for example, liquidity, debt, red loans, to create hope for the next day. For businesses we now need to move from horizontal measures to more specific measures, to a fairer distribution of available resources. The Change Movement has proposed a lot of things: a special advance payment program for retailers and catering, with 70% being direct support, of course, with the criterion of reduced turnover, a 50% reduction in VAT from what is now, from May to November 2021, an adjustment of debts in a hundred and twenty instalments, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Francis, Mr. Theocharis, you ask, not Mr. Stavoura. These are questions for elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u51	I shall conclude, Mr President. Suspension of bankruptcy, etc. As far as workers in tourism are concerned, we have said so many times. There are seasonal workers who have not been protected until now, for example, tourist offices and workers in the tourist offices. The tourist product should also be updated and upgraded. This means developing thematic tourism, with emphasis on tourism experiential experience, digitisation of services, well-trained staff, effective communication strategy and promotion of the tourist product.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Francis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u53	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr Minister, last year's domestic tourism programme had poor results. We stress that this year you need to be more specific about indoor tourism and see it generously. Finally, I should like to stress that the problem with forest maps is a permanent thorn that brakes investment in tourism and must be eliminated as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Theochari, on the question, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u55	I should like to reply, Mr President, but this is where the Prime Minister himself needs to reply on health issues, economic issues, tourism issues and forest maps. They can't answer all this. It's good to ask these questions, of course, Mr. Frankides, but some things are disproved by you. Our country, whether we like it or not, has had much less recession than that expected by all international organisations, but even by ourselves. The budget was talking about -10.5% recession and we had only -8.2% in the end. I would remind you that Italy is at -8.9%, Spain at -11% and that we are at the same level as France. Our country has the second best service in maintaining jobs. These are the tangible results for people of tourism, but also for the government's economic policy as a whole. So you cannot forget repayable advances, you cannot forget a number of measures for workers. Of course the employees of the tourist agencies have been supported by special-purpose allowances. I read from Mr Hatzidakis himself, from the minutes of the House, who replied with a number of measures lately. Specific financial assistance for hotel accommodation companies, cover for employers’ contributions by 30 March 2021, especially for seasonal workers in tourist accommodation, guides to tourist buses with the right to re-intake, seasonal workers without the right to re-introduction, monthly exceptional compensation. It is a series of eight measures with specializations, which have supported workers. It's an unprecedented support plan, unique in modern history. Over 24 billion has been allocated so that companies can also support workers and now the Ministry of Finance - we have here the Deputy Minister - and liquidity support programmes so that seasonal enterprises can be opened and, of course, we are even proposing specific bridge programmes so that they can support workers in their lending obligations. All I'm going to tell you is that our plan has beginning, middle and end and is being implemented is not a plan on paper, as it was implemented last year. When you insulted us that we had no plan, we implemented it and opened it. When you told us that we put the country in danger, we protected it and protected all its guests and the results are more obvious, they appear everywhere and are recognized by the world worldwide. Our country, the Prime Minister, takes initiatives at the level of the European Union, I take initiatives within the framework of the World Tourism Organisation, but also the WTTC of SETT’s global travel business. So he welcomed the presentation of our openness plan and asks us to present it as a model for the other countries for how they will open. This means that it is recognised. Unfortunately, in this political situation in our country, it is easier to recognise our work from abroad than from within. I hope at some point - we also have the anniversary of the two hundred years - that our country will grow well enough so that its successes will not be the reason for the opposition to be irreversible, but for its successes to be shared throughout the political spectrum, because they are not the successes of the government but are the successes of the Greek people and we will continue to offer the Greek people the opportunity to implement this kind of successes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. We will be interrupted for five minutes and then we shall proceed on the agenda for the legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Preparation of a Property Distribution Convention - Establishment of Property Surface Right of a Metropolitan Pole of Greek - Agios Cosmas and regulation of related issues". We start where we're done with teleconferencing. The first speaker is Mr Theodore Karaoglu. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in modern-day parliamentary democracies governments are elected to govern and not to manage political time, or at least that should be the case. In our case, the Government of New Democracy was elected by a majority vote of the Greek people to proceed with a bold reform programme, without being held by fearful partners, ideas and dependencies. He was chosen to legislate and not to subject himself to the extortion of the opposition on political moratorium, dismissing the constitutional right to exercise the executive power of the state. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, we are not going to apologize because we continue to work for the benefit of the country and the Greek society, nor of course will we be subject to Mr Tsipras' anti-democratic demand to stop legislating in exchange for the "false" of the demonstrations. In fact, I personally take the above position of the head of SYRIZA as a cynical confession that he is manipulating, directing and therefore leading shadowly the supposed spontaneous gatherings of protests that have taken place at random in the last few weeks. Your demand is not a consensus proposal. Not at all. It is a proposal of political self-defence. But the New Democracy does not suffer from the Stockholm Syndrome. Since tomorrow's events begin to mark the completion of the two hundred years from the National Palaggenesia, as a government we understand the flagship anniversary as an excellent occasion for the effective regeneration of the Greek society. Our desire and pursuit is to return to our compatriots their national pride and personal dignity. That is why we are aiming at our government programme, launching important legislative initiatives, such as today. The two hundred years anniversary of the Revolution of 1821, ladies and gentlemen, marks the opportunity for a new revolution with different characteristics. I am talking about an economic, development, an investment revolution, that is, a revolution of progress, which will reshape the country and significantly improve its position in the international environment, when the global economy is restructured because of pandemic. On the occasion of the national anniversary of 25 March, 2021, it becomes milestone, starting to become a credible partner of the European Union and to make a strong investment comeback. We return to our roots to bring out new "blade" as a nation. That is why it is important to plan the future by giving the country a long-term investment perspective. Our concept is economic growth and growth, which are of fundamental importance to an economy and which leads to positive results. Under this perspective, 2021 will be the year of Greek. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the biggest investment project in our country since the 2004 Olympic Games. Infrastructures, buildings and regenerations to be carried out upgrade the wider area. The ratification of the convention we are discussing today is not the end of a period of time, but the beginning of a new era for greater urban renewal in Europe, which will bring great investment to the border regions. With the legislation that we are discussing we defend the public interest, contributing consistently to the development of a EUR 8 billion emblematic investment, thanks to which seventy-five thousand new jobs will be created. It is with two words about a modern, ecologically friendly, environmentally friendly project, which symbolizes the new Greece that we envision. We say goodbye to the old Greek and we lay the foundations for the creation of a significant "kill" development, which will contribute 2.4% to strengthening the country's Gross Domestic Product. To understand the value and importance of the project, I am telling you what the news agency "REUTERS" said last July, when the demolition of the old buildings began: "Greece started work on a property project that would turn an unused airport on the coast of Athens into one of Europe's largest tourist resorts". Attributes, the news agency "REUTERS" said "three times Monaco's size". Only consider that it will have a hotel of selective tourism, tourist infrastructure, business meeting places and the most modern marina in Europe. Furthermore, the provisions contained in the bill are confronted with past pathogens, giving a definitive end to a period of twenty-year abandonment of about two million square meters. Where there are ruins today, the most impressive park in Europe will be created, connecting the seafront to the mountainous volume of Hymittos and making it an important "inspiring" greenery for the urban fabric of the capital. Also, according to an IOBE study, the project will generate more than EUR 14 billion income tax revenues, corporate taxes, insurance contributions, real estate taxes and, of course, VAT. Consistently: Investment in the Greek is the proof that when there is political will and determination, the state machine has the potential and especially has the ability to work together and conscientiously. Consider that stakeholders are the Ministries of Finance, Development, Environment, Culture, Defence, Shipping and Infrastructure. Nearly all Greek public bodies are involved, as well as organizations such as the Hellenic Navy, HYDAP, the Land register, the neighbouring municipalities and the Church. And yet, thanks to the unresolved desire of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, a project that began in 2011 finally enters a secure realignment. Ladies and gentlemen, we have proved that when you really want something, nothing is impossible. As long as the Civic Opposition remains locked between Koufantina and Marx, we produce results. As long as Opposition hosts investment, we welcome the right and serious investment proposals, opening up substantial avenues of progress. As long as the Civic Opposition organises demonstrations in the middle of a pandemic and puts tripods in the country, we plan tomorrow. As long as opposition invests in Internet trolls and social media, we improve the real world of people. It goes without saying that the New Democracy Parliamentary Group is voting in favour of the Treasury bill, because that is what logic and national interest demands. In closing, I would just like to say two words. I would like to make a special point on the amendment on the regulation on compensation for former workers in the Greek Vehicle Industry, namely ELVO. It is an issue that I have dealt with many times in the past and I have shown particular interest. I think it is time for the pensioners, former workers in ELVO, to be justified. According to this amendment, therefore, the amounts paid are unaccompanied and irresponsible, which means that they are not bound and offset by any certified debts of the beneficiaries. So the compensation to the beneficiaries will be clean, without any reservations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u59	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u60	This is a very positive development, which is curing a wound which has afflicted a large number of employees in ELVO - I conclude, Mr President - after resolving the delay in their basic work right. I therefore congratulate the Minister for Finance, who at last deserves the pensioners of ELVO and, of course, I think it is an extremely positive amendment, which I am very pleased to vote for. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Ioannis Giolas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of triumphantizing and being called into question for the contract to be ratified, the government, in my opinion, must account for the excessive delay, but also for the overthrowing of the advantage that SYRIZA has brought with the 19-7-2016 amending contract after a hard and - rather less than less - effective negotiation with the institutions. The changes and modifications we made to the original Samaras government agreement gave rise to the nature of investment respect for the environment, to the expansion of public and public areas, to ensure the maximum possible opening and use of the sea front and to the additional economic benefits of the public. And I'm explaining. In the way you accepted, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and effectively excluding public and public-private areas, more than 30% of the extent of the exclusive ownership of the investor was attributed to the public. It would be preferable to accept that you negotiated and failed. But the fact that you hid behind the five-member committee of the TEI that you set up, which was recommended in the pursuits of the investor, betrays your choice not to disappoint them. Proven and willingly gave in to the investors' appetites. So it was not wrong that Mr Belavila, the Director of the Urban Environment Laboratory of the Planning and Spatial Planning Sector, when at the hearing of the bodies, he said that what he was concerned is that we have the phenomenon of a modern version of the '60s contribution. And explaining it further, features have submitted for word: From the vast plot of six thousand acres it is built as planned on the basis of the plan with the investors' intentions and almost all it passes on to the investor. The intention is to minimise public spaces which could be attributed to the public. Secondly, the free and uninhabited access to and use of the Greek coastline by the citizens of Greece was very limited. And again, Mr. Belavila was revealing, saying that while it had been imposed by the 2017 amending contract, the existence of a kilometre of free-structured coast, in the new plan this unstructured coast covers a minimum of two hundred and fifty meters, i.e. from all three kilometres of the Greek coastline in public use is attributed only 10%, while the rest disappears behind the fences. Thirdly, the great diverse pedestrian - bulevard road that would unite the eastern districts of the Greek sea with the sea has disappeared, is not there, since it is nowhere to be depicted. There are only, as Mr Belavila says, his entrances to the mall area and his exit to the area of St. Kosmas, but there he shrinks completely and prevents access to the sea. On the issue of the planned fence of the total area for which there have been global reactions and the relevant legislative improvements have been made, I would like to say: these improvements do not in my view prevent this possibility from being removed. The addition of the word ‘safety’ in no way prohibits fence. Secondly, the word 'temporary' periphery of the whole area does not preclude the possibility of building a fence entirely or unambiguously. The only test - at least to me - would be to indicate that factory fences can be built or temporarily enclosed in areas where operations are carried out solely for security reasons. Any other provision shall be ambiguous and can be translated as appropriate. And since I referred to parks, a crucial element is also the very disappointing term of the current convention not of a metropolitan park, but only of an eighty acre suburbs. On the contrary, our contract clearly defined and prepared the construction of the large metropolitan park within five years by priority. What, after all, will be the timeframe and, if it is made, it remains unclear to the extent to which it is uncertain, such as delimitation, shaping and settlement of the two major events that are not reflected in any topographical yet. Following our demand, an area of three hundred acres for uses of social recompense have been foreseen, a measure which is particularly beneficial to the environment so that buildings can be found in the centre of Athens, for example, and be transported there and thus ensures a vital green space in the centre of the densely populated city. We limited the total structural surface by nine hundred thousand square meters, reducing the coefficient from 0.60 to 0.45. We designed an extensive network of pedestrian roads and bicycle roads 50 km long. Finally, we required the investor to take up 50% of the cost of design and construction of a recycling centre not only for the Greek but also for the three neighbouring municipalities. [[The President-in-Office occupies Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr HARALABOS Athanasou.]] To conclude, I would like to explain why I referred to a cloudy and undetermined business plan. In an unprecedented, complex and so large investment project, the public should be the one holding the sceptres. That's not all Mr. Belavilas says. Harvard's serious professor, Mr. Spyros Pollis, who was used but praisedly released in 2013 by the Samara government, had proposed a forward-looking scenario with a primary concern for the public and priority and choice of the public and public spaces, so that the investor would follow, otherwise the landscape is cloudy and in this case there is no. The public as a pig will follow the investor and will be confined to issuing parallel private design support decrees, act and practice that we have seen repeatedly in two years, but also in the previous decade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u63	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u64	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute or so. The forecasts are therefore very pitiful. We have an investor who has no money, not only invests and wins stock exchanges from the increase in the stock price. The emerging scenario, unfortunately, is the construction of a mall in Builiagmenos and probably an incomplete casino. I don't claim it because Mr. Belavilas says so. He had seen it since 2013, the notorious indictee from our own views, Mr. Multilis, who I said, who had prophesied that the Greek will not be built. It is not accidental to leave Arabs and Chinese big businessmen with a large surface, activity and experience in the real estate that they have chosen to leave and invest in other serious projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Gillola, please, you've reached nine minutes. We still have a lot of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u66	That's the last sentence. The fear expressed by both scientists that after five, ten years we will look at how to get the public land back does not seem to be an imaginary scenario at all. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u67	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that at 14.00 hours we have to get into the next bill and that a parliamentary representative has not yet spoken and we still have fifteen colleagues who have to speak, with the consent of this House we can make seven minutes and with our tolerance of seven. Thank you very much. Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor. Thank you for understanding, Mr. Consola, because you're the first person to start with six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say many years to you, Mr President, to the Minister of State, and to my dear colleagues. It is a great day that we must all be united and cultivate our national conscience and highlight the values of Hellenism - which our ancestors have shown the way - so that we can all move forward together. Mr President, it is a common assumption that the relaunch of the economy and the country's return to positive and sustainable growth is linked to the attraction and implementation of major investment initiatives. I imagine that this has now been understood, even by those who, as I see it, had delusions. I am referring to all those who believed in a state-owned growth model that does not exist in any country in the world. I do not need to mention the prevailing attitudes of the past aimed at undermining and cancelling any investment initiative. These attitudes are not limited to the various collectives. They are linked to the practices that have engendered in the political space itself, the political system. During the previous government's term, there seems to have been an orderly effort to cancel flagrant investment initiatives. Some of them discovered forests in the Greek area. Forest where the international airport operated until a few years ago. Others, namely the Ministry of Culture in the previous government, described in 2016 as an archaeological zone of ten thousand acres in Afantou Golf with an obvious aim to cancel the investment. In fact, the investigations - let me make a special reference to this - were carried out by the Archaeological Service itself. The period from 12 April to 31 August 2018, the Dodecanese Antiquities Department carried out test archaeological investigations in the area and showed that no significant archaeological findings were found that prevented the investment from being carried out. I am making this reference, ladies and gentlemen, because it seems that society has definitively rejected these attitudes and their expressions, who want to keep the country behind the attraction of investments and the very big decision of the government and Prime Minister to move forward with investments, with which we will be attracted by the whole world forces for the development of the country. The majority of Greek citizens at the same time have given the government a clear mandate to move forward, to make Greece a model for the development of business and investment activity. The draft law we are debating today removes the last obstacles that exist to implement one of the greatest investments in Europe. The use of the Greek area is linked to an investment of 8 billion euros that will create seventy-five thousand new jobs. I repeat, seventy-five thousand new jobs, a very important milestone in social cohesion for the next day after the coronary. The agreement to distribute the land that comes to Parliament today is a decisive step. This initiative to move forward determines 30% of the area of six thousand acres of Greek, which will pass on to the full ownership of the concessionaire and 70% to which it will have the right to use and exploit. Of course, this 70% will go to the public's ownership after ninety years of concession. A significant part of this area remains the full ownership of the public, which means that it can be exploited and exploited with considerable benefit. It is a positive development that must be credited to the negotiation that we had both from the Prime Minister and from the Ministry of Finance and in particular Mr Christos Staikouras, which in the second half of 2019 has literally run the procedures very much and has given particular emphasis. A very important development is also the agreement on the long-term free grant of use to the public of three ground floors in privileged areas, which will be used for actions aimed at strengthening tourism and attracting investment. I hope, Mr President, that the conditions will allow and become the metropolitan centre in Athens for conference tourism, that is, a metropolitan centre that is in need of Athens, and we can join all our forces together in Greek until another place is found. The start of the precursor projects to implement the investment will also mean the payment of the EUR 300 million advance from the investment scheme to the State. What they are all aware of now is that strengthening the development process presupposes attracting investment. There is a new investment project for the new Marina Rhodes, which must proceed with the processes and the Ministry of Finance and other relevant ministries. In conclusion, I must place emphasis on the special island region of the Dodecanese, in which the development of the Mandraki Rhodes marina in collaboration with the Municipality of Kos for the development of Marina Kos and the creation of a marina network on the island. Thus, marine tourism can be the tip of the spear of a new model of tourism development. 1.5% of GDP, which contributed before the pandemic, can be multiplied by this thematic field of tourism. It is a form of tourism that is linked to the strong trend that now exists for security. It is mainly linked to increased per capita expenditure for the possibility of visitors with a high income Valley, which entails more revenue. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a given support for all of us in this bill, as is the support and encouragement of any investment initiative in our country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u69	I too, Mr Consola, thank you, especially for keeping time. Mr. George Kamine has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. In the case of the Greek we must recognize that this is a collective failure. And it's a double failure. On the one hand, the development model we are choosing for our country, but also failure to implement it, to implement what we have rightly or badly decided to do. I would like to remind you, first of all, that there has been a long conciliation procedure since at least 2005 with very strong parties, self-government and institutions at that time, until we end up, several years later, in a plan that basically features of shopping centres, casinos, houses for sale and some tourist uses, in other words, a development model not just in the past decades, but rather in the last century. I say last century and this with some reservations, because the United States of America, for example, has taken the risk of creating a technology ringer since the 1950s. Greece, even with a great deal of delay, but with its very experienced human potential, could today support analogues from shipping and health to classical education and technology. The Greek public and successive Greek governments have marginally succeeded in judging what they want to do in Greek. But they failed to propose a concrete action plan, to define legal, political, economic and financial parameters and ultimately to implement it. This is a major collective failure twenty years old. Still the work has not actually begun. Of course, despite the well-known saying of the Minister of Development, which told us that, on the next day of the elections, the bulldozers would enter the Greek phrase, which reveals not only irresponsible, but also devaluation of the intelligence of all of us, especially of the electorate. It was our party that started the project and over time we have proved our good faith and will that we can contribute to the creation of the metropolitan park, to the development of an entire area of Attica, even with the reservations I expressed. We are in favour of investment either as a government previously opposed to any government, or in 2016, when we voted in favour of the law of SYRIZA - ANLE with "Hellenic S.A.", or in 2020, when we voted in favour of the provisions of Law 4706 of your government. From the bill, I'd first like to touch the part of the fence. Fortunately, the government has quicked to correct its mistake, because if the original arrangements were maintained, we would have made a serious mistake. We would create a model of housing development that is completely foreign to the character of our country, and I would say to Europe. It's more like third world countries. It would also create a dangerous precedent. It would be unprecedented to cut out a piece of the city from the rest of the urban fabric. I would, however, like to focus, in particular, on an issue that is unintentionally drawn as a conclusion from the way in which the government handled the matter. I am talking about the issue of incomplete consultation. Unfortunately, it continues from your Government's practice of constantly underestimating the consultation. On a subject that touches hundreds of thousands of people, it is unforgivable that you do not bring this convention in the form of a law so that there can be full and exhaustive consultation on this matter. The mayors of the neighbouring municipalities came to committee - and they came because the Change Movement made sure to call them - and people had no idea about the provisions of the law. As a former mayor, I can assure you that no one in such a position will consent if he cannot safely assure his fellow citizens of what exactly is going to happen. You have done this repeatedly in provisions relating to the Greek. A series of critical devices have passed without consultation, you have had ad hoc "photographic" devices for tourist ports and required parking places. Why so disrespectful in consultation? There are many serious complaints from the mayors of the region. Mayors who have publicly supported investment in the past have very serious concerns both about the procedures you are following and about the content of the arrangements. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate our rapporteur's urge that you finally table a detailed timetable for the next institutional issues of investment and investment in general, because that would be very useful for the public debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr Kamine, and respect for the time. Mrs Silver Skondra has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago, he was submitted for processing in the committee responsible and today the Finance Ministry's bill was introduced to plenary for the ratification of the Metropolitan Polo - St. Kosmas Convention. This concludes a cycle of loose ends for this particularly flagship work. There was a huge struggle to overcome various strangles, procedural unfinishedness, institutional weaknesses and shortcomings that had frozen the project, since SYRIZA as a government served in the inertia, not to mention the stumbling blocks it posed. On this point I would really like to congratulate all the ministers involved on this titanic struggle for the completion of this work, but also for the coordination of their actions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek is a huge investment in our country in many areas: economics, tourists, cultural, environmental and social. Economics are known. The investment reaches 8 billion euros, creates seventy-five thousand new jobs in the full operation of the project and strengthens the country's GDP by 2.4% until the date of its completion. It is estimated that the tax revenue in the project's investment activity - construction and operation - for twenty-five years will exceed EUR 14 billion. The benefits of tourism will benefit all the next generations of Greeks, since Athens as a point of attraction for visitors from all over the world will be dramatically strengthened, as we talk about developing the largest park in Europe, which will be open to the public. With a size greater than 2 million square meters, the seafront will connect to the mountainous volume of Hymettos and will be a major and necessary green lung for the urban fabric of Athens. Clearly for New Democracy, the development of the Greek was consistently one of the most important development priorities. It concerns both the entire social fabric that lives and operates around the property of the Metropolitan Pole of Greek – Agios Kosmas, as well as the Greek economy as a whole because of the scope of the investment project. I really do wonder where, given the above elements - which do not have any question - there have been and continue to be parties and political entities that were and remain the fighters of the project and others who deliberately prevented its development and integration. And I wonder how they rank themselves into progressives and pretend to be interested in developing our place and increasing productivity and work. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go to another object, which is part of this bill and is introduced as an amendment by the Ministry of Environment and Energy and concerns urban planning. We all know that the urban issues pan-Hellenically afflict local communities. This amendment contains provisions modernising pathogens of the past, introducing innovative regulations such as, for example, with regard to electric vehicles, as well as sustainable urban mobility plans. Articles of earlier laws are amended and transitional provisions are provided for, always for and facilitated by citizens and in many cases for TAs. Because over years, and due to changes in urban planning, which are linked to the constant transformation of the urban and exotic area, major urban problems have arisen which have a basic contradiction: on the one hand, there is the need to reduce conflicts in land use to ensure and improve the quality of life of citizens, and on the other hand there is an obligation to ensure legal certainty and to promote the economic development of enterprises that have been lawfully installed in sites and operated with all the necessary permits when they were established. At this point I would like to thank the Minister, Mr Skreka, who, through these provisions, gives my fellow citizens the time they need to keep their businesses until the land use change that has already been launched by the municipality with new local planning. This problem has been addressed and he realised its seriousness, as many fuel stations were at risk of losing their license without their own fault, and this would have the effect of losing viable businesses, tens of jobs and the great suffering of citizens, since there would be no service stations on the city's web site. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill once again shows that the New Democracy Government understands the right and fair - where they exist - and is decisively giving solutions, in the interests of society, the economy and our fellow citizens at all times. It is also doing so despite the difficult circumstances we have been going through for a year. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the government together have demonstrated from the first moment that they can handle difficult challenges at the same time, such as migration, Turkish aggression and the pandemic of the coronary and, at the same time, move forward with the important, visionary reforms that had been committed to Greeks and Greeks. We manage and deal with the negative effects on the economy and society, we resolve individual issues that arise, we facilitate the operation of local economies and, at the same time, we promote large, emblematic investments in the country. We are preparing Greece for a new development period that will make up for the last lost year and will make the leap in the future, starting on the 2021 flag anniversary, that is, the completion of two hundred years of independence, free Greece. Finally, I wish many years for tomorrow in our homeland, many years for all Greek women and all Greeks and I truly wish that we are worthy of our heroic ancestors! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Skondra. The next speaker is Mr Efstathos Konstantinides from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, while the President of the Police Department is calling practically to suspend parliamentary operation, we believe that we need to run the legislative work more quickly to prepare for the country's re-launch, when a large part of the community will soon have been shielded by vaccination and we will be able to re-enter normality. In order to put things in order, however, SYRIZA invokes the popular reaction, which, of course, also hindrances in the name of public health, which is obviously harming the marches and concentrations in pandemic conditions, for almost six months now is asking for the freezing of government policy. In other words, we have, on the one hand, the elected government, which, in implementing its programme, wants to create conditions of dynamic development and considers that this is becoming even more urgent because of the economic recession caused by the coronary, and on the other hand, the Civic Response, which tells us, "do nothing for as long as the pandemic lasts, because otherwise we will go out on the streets." This moratorium offered Mr Tsipras a few days ago when voting for another important investment agreement! Let us say, however, that the government gave its backing to the proposal - a threat to counter-population and did not make reforms and did not go ahead with the reorganisation of the bank, did not launch the absorption of European funds, did not sign up for the contracts for these emblematic investments that create thousands of jobs. Would SYRIZA forgive us for the situation the next day? Not for a joke. Recent examples are that it has prompted the Government to denounce a two-digit deficit - and this has proved to be lower than the most optimistic predictions - and it has betrayed the failure of Mr Mitsotakis' proposal on the certificate of vaccination, which has been warmly adopted by the European Union and is expected to make a significant contribution to trade, trade and tourism. But what SYRIZA is doing with the health crisis is doing it in the country's overall function. He's asking for contradictory things. He blames us on cases, the other on restrictive measures and then on their effects on the economy. That is what it does in this regard. He asks us not to legislate to denounce the results of our operation. Governments, however, are judged by their effectiveness and not by the favours in opposition. However, the truce proposed by SYRIZA is also a cynical assumption that he is behind the concentrations, which, if anything, are helping to spread the coronary while his health system and his employees are under unbearable pressure and the citizens are exhausted by the pandemic restrictions. The government is not being blackmailed and has recently proved it in other cases, such as the hard pressure exerted by SYRIZA on her by the hunger strike of a imprisoned terrorist. Mostly, however, the society that has overcome the myths of the Left is not blackmailed. It is clear that the citizens' programmes are different now. It's the improvement of their lives, it's growth, it's job creation. In these objectives, the Greek convention to be ratified seeks to bring the country closer together. And that is the size and dynamic of the project that can achieve it. Its area exceeds two million square meters, while the investment, estimated to reach 8 billion, is expected to create seventy-five thousand new jobs at its full growth and contribute to strengthening GDP by 2.4% until its completion. These are huge figures, as are huge and the expected tax revenues for the Greek State, which are estimated at close to EUR 14 billion. Rarely, such a project can have such a beneficial effect on the economy, on tourism, on the development of a city and a country. We therefore have the responsibility to work to remove the procedural obstacles that have been delayed and the obstacles which have hindered the start of construction work in recent years. In addition, it is understood that the scale of the project does not allow for the application of common provisions to which construction work is subject. They would never proceed with such a project of this order and this complexity. Extreme deadlines and procedures are needed, of course, if the public interest is to be guaranteed, in the broader sense of the term rather than the narrow economic sense. That is what we are voting on today. This is the agreement on the distribution of the land, which is an essential condition for the start of the work at the former airport of Greece. To use more familiar concepts for citizens, let's think about the distribution we're doing in a competitor, what's going to get the manufacturer and what's left in the house. It is only here that there is the concession of the use of land for ninety years. Thus, 30% will pass to the investor fully, while 70% will only be entitled to use and exploit and when the concession expires, it will reach the state. Minister Stagioras responded convincingly to all the issues raised by the Opposition on the more specific forecasts of the agreement, from the properties taken by the State, the precursor work that the investor can carry out at his own expense and responsibility, the shared areas, to the fence of the project. It is important that the contract ensures the full interests of the public, legal certainty and the conditions of economic efficiency and social recompense. It is therefore clear that SYRIZA is not disturbed by time limits and licensing facilities. It bothers him that today's government will be able to put the project forward. Otherwise it does not explain how he on the one hand blames us for delays and, on the other, opposes accelerations. Finally, regardless of what has been said in the process of who wants to invest in the country and who is blocking them, who is blocking them, one thing is certain: if we were to listen to Mr Tsipras and we had stopped legislating, there would be no further vote today on the distribution of the property, which is the necessary precondition for the progress of the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Constantinidis. Mr Efstratios Simopoulos from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will focus, first of all, on two amendments, which are very important and which the government has brought forward. The first concerns the payment of compensation to former ELVO pensioners. It was an attempt of many years of ELVO's retired people to get their legal allowances. This is done by an amendment tabled last Friday, which will be voted on today. The second important issue, which also concerns the amendments made by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, is the extension of the validity of the electronic identity building. The electronic building identity is obviously something that has to be done. It's important. Today, however, with public services falling behind because of the pandemic, with huge problems in the taxation, in the municipalities and in the Land register, we could not put another block on the transfer of property. It was a request from lawyers, notaries and engineers, who receives flesh and bone. The government has therefore demonstrated, by means of these amendments, that it is listening to society. I would congratulate them, but I am keeping them for the future, because I expect from both Ministries two more important amendments, important legislative regulations, which concern many of our fellow citizens. The first concerns the Ministry of Finance. I am referring, in particular, to the exchanges of the Municipality of Kalamaria, a case that holds hundreds of families hostage. The second relates to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, and I refer to the issue of the concession in return for dwellings in Meteora. I am therefore waiting for both of these legislation to give all the congratulations. A third issue, which may at first sight seem to have nothing to do with the bill, is an announcement by the single association of teaching staff, research staff at the IMP and the administrative staff of the IMP, in which members are invited to contribute to the judicial struggle for the seizures of the dean. These powers, therefore, have in their statutes been fighting since 1985 for the democratization of universities, which have been talking about safeguarding the freedoms of universities and university asylum. In their statutes, too, they also contain articles stating that the country must develop itself on the basis of culture and respect for the environment. So these powers have resisted all these years in this great investment. These forces, which are also identified through these announcements, are forces from which some have been incorporated into the SYRIZA. They are the forces that, despite the efforts of some SYRIZA government over the previous period, resisted the project. They are the forces that found forests inside the Greek. They are the forces that basically wanted the entire Greek region to turn it into a cultural area. These powers had to be contradicted by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Government of New Democracy. And he's been doing it since the first moment he took over. He did, in fact, in a fast way, because the problems proved to be too much, more than we expected. Very quickly ministerial decisions were made. I have been well aware of the Greek issue since I was at the General Secretariat of Public Works. I am aware of the issues raised by some colleagues from SYRIZA and wonder, for example, for the road to link investment to the airport or the settlement of the incidents. These are issues that were initiated at the time, but issues which have not been brought forward for four and a half years. But I welcome the turn of SYRIZA, the government's SYRIZA. It turns out that four and a half years something left them. I welcome that even at the outset they have passed today's bill or voted on it. It is a bill that actually passes the investment in the next phase and at the same time the country in another phase. And I fully agree with the interventions made by the Confence through which we have seen the fence issues. There are no private heavens. I say that to everyone. Private heavens were in the past. Society is open. When we try to create private paradises, sometimes it happens to create collars outside. So the government's decision on the fences was very correct. I now come to a number of issues which I think the government should take into account and thus give more impetus to investment. In Serbia, for example, when an investor wants to make a big investment, it is provided by the municipality or by the state...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u77	Please, Mr. Colleague, tell them briefly why you've been in the eighth minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u78	I won't be a minute. It is therefore given free land to simply compensate for the value of the land in five years with insurance and tax obligations. There's a bill coming from the Ministry of the Interior. I think it's worth it, too. At the same time, I think that even the HICP should speed up the privatisation, the provision of even the small real estate that the public has. In this way it is certain that we will create a very large mobility in the category of real estate. To sum up, today is very important for a large investment that puts the country at another level and puts it in a completely correct way and, in fact, with the agreement of Anti-Population, leaving the margin and powers expressed in this House and would prefer our children to turn around and consume culture and work out in leisure areas. The environment and culture can be combined with growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr Simopoulos. Mr.Ioannis Balafas has the floor from SYRIZA and Mr. Constantine Boubas will then be prepared from the Greek Solution. Here, Mr Balafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. I hope that we are listening to and wishing everyone health and that we will quickly reward the seats of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to ratify the investment contract in the Greek area. An investment that has been characterised as emblematic, which is perhaps the most important open area - a plot in Europe today. An investment which, for our part, we support by promoting and defending, of course, the interests of the country, the interests of the inhabitants, the interests of the economy and the protection of the environment, always in compliance with the laws and not with evil - I would say - bypassing them. Let's get something straight. We support investment - and I refer to a previous fellow Member - while the government only cares about investors whose quality is problematic many times. We want jobs for the workers of the country, we want development projects that will leave the benefits in our country, we want the new wealth produced to be distributed as fairly as possible, we want what is done with the protection of the environment. We are not on the basis of any populism or the facilitation of those investors who want to circumvent the laws to their own advantage. I shall start with something simple, which you are bypassing, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. Today, six hundred and twenty-five days have passed since the elections of 7 July 2019. The Prime Minister promised us - another promise that he went where he went - that in the first week of New Democracy the investment would unblock in seven days! I think he copied the first book of the Bible, “Genesi,” which describes the world’s creation in six days. It is only in both cases that every day is such a long period and I hope that in the Greek case it is not as great as the creation of the world. Because the way you handle the case of the Greek, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I fear you refer to the best of cases of investment in the Greek bells. As far as the convention itself is concerned, I will say just two specific issues, because everything has been said. Article 1 provides for the distribution of the property, with the company gaining the right of full ownership to an extent corresponding to 30% of the surface of the former airport, to an extent corresponding to 30% of the surface of the coastal zone. Public spaces and utilities simply need to be removed. If you hadn't changed with an amendment to Law 4062/2012, it would have been attributed to the municipalities and, of course, the distribution would have taken place after they were removed. One more word on the problem of fence. Fence? Because I'm also an engineer, we'll see what fence means on a construction site when it's good to be a construction site. This is a completely dystopical urban scenario since it creates - and it is reasonable to assume this with the fence as planned - a new city in the city enclosed. It reminds me of those condos in various American states that are part of the cities that you're entering with a Cesouriti and Identity Control. This is a completely, I repeat, dystopical urban scenario. Projects have the goal of completing the 20 to twenty-five years. It is not possible to catch up with all this land, supposedly only in the performance of projects, that is, for twenty-five years. For us, it is clear and unnecessarily necessary to provide for a partial fence in which, for as long as work is done, construction plant fences must be provided. In any case, uninterrupted access to the park, on a hayalous and beach, must be ensured, because the public space has a constitutional foundation and protection, as clearly described in the 2016 amending Convention on Government SYRIZA. Do not do anything to ignore it, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. We proceeded with a plan on the investment case, which had been put into place for about fifteen years. With your governments he had laid his hands on it for fifteen years. Closed up, yes to investment, not immunity. Yes, exploiting Europe's likely best plot, not creating enclosed cities for a few. Yes to the creation of jobs and the creation of new wealth, it is enough for the Greek economy as a whole and to be distributed as fairly as possible. Yes to the predictions that protect the environment, not to transfer environmental protection to any investor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u81	Thank you too, Mr Balafa, especially for keeping time. Now Mr. Boobas Konstantinos will have the floor from the Greek Solution. Then prepare Mr. Georgios Logiadis, so close the first cycle of speechors with Webex. Immediately after Mr. Logiadis, the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Karathanasopoulos will speak. Mr. Boobas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u82	Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning to the whole of Parliament. What we are talking about is what a architectural footprint we want for us and for the next generations. If it is consistent with what we call tradition in Greece, because it is not delivered to us, but we are delivered to tradition. I am afraid, therefore, that the new modern building complex that the government publishes as a major investment will not tie with what we call European - Greek. Instead of talking about building complexes, which will bring a quality of life, plus income, we cannot talk about a modern architecture that will be a foreign cell, it will be a foreign body in what will bind to the traditional Greek character. We are talking about an area that was afflicted, a region that was once operating as a cleanser, then of course as a Greek airport. We must preserve this because whatever form of investment we wish to see, it must be of primary concern to the quality of life of the inhabitants. With penguins in Athens you can't make a human city. So you cannot, at the moment, with inappropriate buildings of two hundred meters, with these skyscrapers, who are more bound to the east and not to the European style, talk about an investment, much more about a casino investment. Casinos are not invested, what we call Greek Solution. Casinos are for the few. Casinos can be shut down, unfortunately, and homes and weep families, so I can just say it. Where they went to casinos to make excavation in the area, you'll see that it's a badly tasted architecture. I've been able to see in various areas what's going on and the only casino that has a stylish view is Monaco's. Let's go make six big towers. I read the studies of architects, Mr President, and I think the architects - they are their scientific object - are the praises that will give us directions and have a strong bearing on their views. You bring a building complex to six thousand acres and you say there will be a sporting park, a green lung, along with six two hundred-mile buildings, which will fall over and there will be a awe that will not tie with the tradition of Athens in general. We should bring a balance between the Temple of Poseidon and Athena and between the Greek. This balance is therefore disturbed. So before I go to the architects, I would like to say something about "ELDORADO", as a Greek Solution, because you need to look for the quality of investors and companies. We cannot currently talk about a particular family, the Latsis family, to which we grant land and water to work with its subsidiary, the HELLINIKON GLOBAL, who has been working since 2014 on the proposals with the Chinese FOSUN and the Arabic ‘AL MAABAR’ based in Abbu Dhabi. I say this because FOSUN is currently not cooperating in the composition of the 'LAMDA', which the government has to clarify, has 16.36% of FOLLI-FOLLIE. You remember what happened with FOLLI - FOLLIE. And ‘AL MAABAR’, based in Abbu Dhabi and has submitted this offer to cooperate on this project, has been active in Jordan, where there are complaints about Jordan's coast in Morocco and Libya. But what has Al MAABAR done? He has left Libya, where he has undertaken the construction of a multi-storey skyscraper of two hundred metres. He left the play in the middle and left. This should give us more general concern about the investment profile of some companies. As far as the market value of companies such as LAMDA and its subsidiary, GLOBAL, the Latsis family, with light jumpers, is concerned - Marianna Latsis has left the investment. What makes me impression, however, is that we are going a while ago to an increase in this company's share capital by paying for EUR 6,70 a share to have fallen and sold by Mrs Latsis only EUR 5,60. However, I read in some publications - and it does well - to a Swiss bank presents profits from this purchase of EUR 84.1 million. You know, that's what troubles me. With the share capital increase that took place against the entire company "LAMDA" and there is a "VOXCOVE" company that owns 10% and there some foreign investors went in to buy it with 5,60 euros. However, some analysts come a year ago and say that after the issue of a bond of national and Eurobank of EUR 520 million, the company in question, the 'LAMDA' - they say investors - must borrow and go to a high loan of even EUR 1 billion. Watch the amount. So the particular share that will take over the project is not attractive. I'm saying this because we need to see the financial strength of each company taking over this bajette, it's going to take over this investment, the type of investment. Because if we are talking about a multi-storey casino in a country of the spirit, philosophy and democracy against the type of Eastern and Asian bloc, then neither tourists can be attracted. Because the tourist comes here to see the Acropolis Museum, to see the Parthenon, to be photographed in an ancient Greek spirit that must be consistent. If he wants to be photographed - I speak in tourist terms - and see skyscrapers, the areas with the greatest skyscrapers - the ten areas that have nothing to do with the Elderly. If we want to go to the etymology of the Greek word 'range' and 'face', i.e. Europe, openly, we are not open in the future. Singapore, Senschen, Guanju, Toking, Tokyo, Chicago, Shanghai, Dubai, New York and Hong Kong are the areas with the highest skyscrapers. Is that what we envision for the capital and the core of Greece with these great modern, modern architecture buildings? Studies say that in future, even building materials, and because of climate change - another story that we can discuss - will change. With steel and quality of life glass it can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u83	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u84	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll be done in a minute. In fact, we've been talking about wooden skyscrapers lately. So I live in the Hellenic Architecture Company, which, Mr President, was founded in 1947. The architects, then, speak of an autistic style that will have a modern glorious city - state fenced. In fact, I read studies: Nikos Konnas, Stefanos Scarakides, Praxitelis Condylis. And the architects say that we open the audacity of Halos to create an autistic style, which will have nothing to do with the entire ancient Greek culture. Is that what Rome would do? Will Vienna, Stockholm, Copenhagen, London, Amsterdam or Budapest do so, which are beautiful cities? Would they accept skyscrapers of two hundred meters? These skyscrapers, by the way, also download quality of life, because the latest studies say that those who live in skyscrapers, climb and...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u86	So we are not talking about such investments, with casinos - unacceptable - and with such architecture, which has nothing to do with Greek tradition, culture, philosophy. Happy birthday to the Greeks. To raise the blue-white one, Mr President. Long live the nation! Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, too. Mr. George Logiadis has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the ratification of the Convention on the Property of Greek - Agios Kosmas. It is not a classic draft law and does not accept amendments. And this draft law is a Memorandum of Understanding. That is why all the Memorandum governments of the last ten years are following it and supporting it, just as we have seen today. It is the largest urban regeneration in Europe in three and a half times as high as in Monaco, creating a city in the city, a Las Vegas type with casinos, exclusive fenced residential and tourist areas, a four-way ghetto city, with skyscrapers of two hundred meters and huge shopping centers, completely changing the nature of not only the coastal front of Attica, but also the entire Lefkanoid in Latin America or Africa, which no one has a relationship with Greece. Although the neighbouring municipalities have submitted opinions on the draft law, they have not been taken into account at all, as the Mayor of Alimos Mr. Condylis says, and these municipalities have not taken the contribution to land laid down by the law and the Constitution. There is a intention to minimize public spaces, as Mr Belavilas, Director of the Urban Environment Laboratory of the Urban Development and Spatial Planning Department of the National Technical University, said. The Mayor of Greece - Argyroupoli stresses that these plots should normally be distributed to the municipalities of the area on a pro rata basis to meet their local needs. Essentially, this work makes Athens a great city, mega - city in total contrast to the Greek "measure excellent". It is an insult to the environment and society. These pharaonic works visually will be in complete contrast to the human measure and harmony of the Parthenon. These projects will also bear burdens both on the region's microclimates and on the wider area. The traffic load of Poseidon Avenue and Vuliagmenou Avenue will become even greater and their carrying capacity, which is already marginal or even inadequate, as we see in hours or days of peak, will deteriorate even further. The pollution and the cloud will further downgrade the quality of life of the Athenians. As huge, disproportionate to the wider environment, a pole of concentrated major economic activities will disappear, plunge smaller businesses in the surrounding regions. The economic inequalities of pandemic will grow even further because of this pharaonic project, the local market will close and the economic activities will be concentrated in very few hands. I would also like to stress my regret and my anger about the money spent in this area of the Greek, to make the Olympic works there, in debt to all the Greek people, the works you have deceived and now you are demolishing them. As MP Heraklion, I would like to express my fear, my anxiety and my opposition, if this model, this draft law of the Ministry of Finance is going to be a basis for the future use of the area of the now international airport of Heraklion "Nikos Kazantzakis", when it is closed. In conclusion, on the occasion of tomorrow's national celebration, I should like to bow to the Greek flag and remind you that the enslaved for many centuries Greece stood up to both the great Ottoman Empire and the mighty Holy Alliance, the "troika" of the time, against every logic and we did what Kazantzakis says: "Get up where you can't." Let this be a bright road to our actions against all forms of oppression and impoverishment by any troika. Happy birthday to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u89	Thank you too, Mr Loyades, for keeping time. And now the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, has the floor. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. After so many hours of discussion we can reach some basic conclusions. What are these, in our view, the main conclusions? What is served by this investment, but also by each investment, by generalizing it? No matter who the investor is. Because too many positions focused on the person of the investor or investment scheme. Let's see, then, a little more specific. What will be the impact of the investment on workers? They'll find, say, employment, jobs. But under what terms and conditions will these jobs be that they will find? It is clear that such an environment has been created, which reproduces a cheap worker, an unqualified worker, working hours, collective agreements, insurance rights and precisely these conditions for investors to have a very cheap labour force in order to increase the exploitation of workers even further during construction, but much later, when it is undeniable that tourism and the miracle of tourist development, the engine of tourist development that some characterize it, was at the same time also the anti-inflational approach workshop to workers. It really is the lab. Secondly, will investment for the benefit of the people and satisfying the needs? Will the quality of life be upgraded or downgraded for the people's strata in the stadium and is 40% of our country's total population? Does this investment in the right of the people's housing family and, indeed, for a roof that meets its needs, which is modern, anti-Semitism, and in all the preconditions and capabilities of today's technology? Does it respond to the needs of the people's family to make use of any free time for recreation, for the right to culture and sport? No, none of this responds to any of this regeneration, because its declared objective is to attract high-income tourists, and this objective runs counter to the fulfilment of popular needs. Because on substance this regeneration forms an enclosed city, a restricted area for popular layers, regardless of whether or not there are fences. Because in essence even fences exist, they may fall. It's easier to drop those fences. These prohibitions that do not fall are the ones that form the economic factor, the economic living conditions of the people's strata. And don't tell me that in today's conditions, before this investment is made in the Greek, there are no such areas in our country that are forbidden for the unemployed, for the workers with the wages of hunger, poverty and impoverishment, for the pensioners and the overwhelming majority, for the self-employed and the youth of the people's classes. Aren't there such areas in our country? Of course they exist, which are not addressed to them. They address the high incomes - it says - layers of our country and abroad. What's that? Aren't they forbidden areas for the people on the substance? A similar area - in growth - will also be made through the regeneration of the Greek. The most serious thing, then, is that the economic data that forbids access to the people and the people. Third matter. Will the coastal front be closed to satisfy the needs of our people? Sure. Because the various investment projects, the marinas, the hotels that will be created will be exploited. Even this one kilometer left of the mantles and walls they'll build, what about it? There will also be a light business. So there's got to be someone to go, pay. Less? Less, but he'll have to pay there, even in that one kilometer. Fourth element. Casino. Really, is the casino the new model of cultural intervention, of new sports activities? Because, where casinos are created, many, small or larger, the people are in fact poor. Or will any green one grow, the altar that will grow there in six hundred acres - if I'm not mistaken - be easily accessible to the people's family? We call it clear. Even this limited space available for the development of green, salted green will essentially be the yard of hotels, casinos, where tourists will be able to enjoy this view of a high income level. So neither for employees nor for people's needs. Will it improve and protect the environment? We say the opposite. On the substance, it will reduce the environment, and even dangerous, because all that you want to create there has absolutely nothing to do with historical and cultural heritage, with the nature of any housing development, even this distorting housing development that existed in the Lefkanos region. No relation at all! Because the skyscrapers are not our country's architectural heritage. On the contrary, the skyscrapers do what they do is, of course, increase the value of the earth and substantially increase the profits of the investors. These structures will have a serious impact on the region's microclimate. So this investment is against the people's interests. Refreshment, which will take place in the Greek, is subject to the designs of the urban order for the Attica basin, for its conversion, that is, as an area for attracting tourists of high income categories and attracting investments in this form of development. It is part of the rejuvenation of the Greek "Greek Walk" which takes place in the center of Athens, urban regenerations throughout the coastal front, from Scaramaga to Lavrio. The "Athensian Riviera" will be created to make their holidays to the millionaires of the whole Earth and not to make use of the people. And, of course, it will further exacerbate the conditions for the monoculture of tourist activity at the expense of other economic activities. From the pandemic crisis you have not reached any conclusion at all, namely that there can be no development, even with capitalist data, which is shielded by such dangers, when it is based on tourism, an activity that is very far-reaching in relation to the conditions of the rest of the countries, even with a pandemic or with an economic crisis, such as the capitalist crisis we are experiencing now. It is an activity that will be to the detriment of other economic activities. And not only that, but even if tourism is a high level and income, that will not be in the interest of the people. In other words, the level of living of the people will not be upgraded, but on the contrary, particular investors will gain by attracting such tourists. Another question is that it will bring economic activity together in less and less hands, whatever building activity is developed in the area of the former Greek, at the expense of the self-employed in the surrounding areas, the professionals, traders, craftsmen, that is to say, for the benefit of the capitalist investor. So we can reach a number of conclusions. First, what does it mean to invest capitalism on the basis of the legislation you bring? Special law, which supports investment, by way of derogation - says - of other provisions. Only this derogation is no longer an exception, but it is the rule. By way of derogation, we also have provisions on investment from abroad on the basis of constitutional law, and by way of derogation, we also have investments of a strategic nature of other provisions. SYRIZA made a special spatial plan for strategic investment. All of this is ‘by way of derogation’. Here, too, we have a derogation from town planning and its rules, by way of derogation from the conditions of construction, by way of controls on construction, by way of derogation from environmental permits. We have special tax rates for casinos established by SYRIZA and gave this impetus and become a casino in the Greek, but also to download the casino from Parnitha to the urban web of the lecadium. So you give land and water and New Democracy and SYRIZA, followed by KINAL. Right now, you're fighting about the bulldozers and you're sharing bulldozers between you guys, games, how many and when the bulldozers will get in. I mean, your agony is about how quickly investment interests will proceed with the bulldozers that will break people's rights. That's why SYRIZA is fighting with the New Democracy and the Government today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude in two minutes, Mr President. In this respect, therefore, the JRC's proposal is the opposite of this policy. Because it is mature today for people to demand work with rights, work with rights to be precise, land and infrastructures that meet all the people's needs and protect the environment. Because the one who breaks these conditions is capitalist profit. It is what comes up against satisfying the people's needs and further downgrades their satisfaction. With this capitalist gain, the working class and other popular strata must be overcome, with the illusions about supposedly fair growth, because growth in capitalism is at the expense of satisfying people's needs. To end with the lymphatic positions of other parties, that is to say, it can alleviate these consequences, which obscure the nature of the development of capitalism, overshadow the real enemy of the workers, that it is not the specific, alpha or beta investor who is bad, but is the whole of this class. And, of course, to end some of the vague and wise views of the government colony and of some people who are after the Greek people and our country. All of this must not obscure the fact that it cannot collide with the needs of our people with capitalist gain. Capitalist profit is a brake on their satisfaction, and today the conditions are mature to end the people, so that they can go through the counterattack. Because the continuation of this policy, which the New Democracy Members are pushing the government to escalate, will create new problems for the people and the working class, will further exacerbate the living conditions of the people. In this respect, the JRC does not declare a moratorium. We call on the working class and the people to coordinate their struggle, with determination on rights at work, on work with rights, on rights to the fulfilment of modern needs. After all, today in the 200 years of the urban national liberation revolution, what he teaches us is that the revolution is the wheel of history and the wheel of the progress of humanity. So the new revolution will lead the working class and its allies and will be socialist. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the time being.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u91	Thank you too, Mr. Karathanasopou. Mr. Athanasios Kavadas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, two hundred years after 25 March 1821 the Greeks stand with awe and pride in the heroism of the revolutionary fighters. patriotism, love for Greece, faith in values and principles of Hellenism and Orthodoxy are timeless the power of our people. From there we draw and will draw the will and determination to defend wherever and whenever necessary freedom, democracy, homeland. I wish many years for tomorrow's big anniversary, and I wish we today in the peaceful times, which we have the chance to live for, to be worthy of the blood of the epic two hundred years ago. I'm on my way to the bill. The bill we are discussing today illustrates the planning of the next day. High speeds, high growth rates must prevail in this design. The development, ladies and gentlemen, is brought about by investment and not by ideas. Development is supported by the creation of a climate of financial support and investment activity. The removal of bureaucratic obstacles and the formation of a climate that is friendly to attract investment are what is needed in this effort. The bill that comes today for vote removes the last obstacles that existed, to start the great emblematic investment of the Greek. Despite the "friendly efforts" made by some in the previous period to block the investment, these efforts are empty. I must remind you that there was a Minister of Culture of the Government SYRIZA, Mr Baltas, who, in August 2016, asked for an archaeological site to be declared a large part of the area to which the investment would take place. And this requested without any substantiated argument. Legislation is clear. On each construction site even in simple construction the Archaeological Service exercises supervision and control. The legislation and procedure provided for were respected in full and in Greek. None of us has forgotten that following the adoption of the revised contract with the investment consortium, which was made by your own government, others wanted to characterise a land in which, for 50 years, an airport was operating. This is what happens when ideas meet investment. With the provisions contained in the bill that the Government has put to the vote, the last obstacles to the start of the investment and the first phase of the project are removed and the investment consortium pays the advance of EUR 300 million from the total EUR 915 million of the total. The draft is to ratify the distribution contract and the setting up of land rights for the property of six thousand two hundred acres. The State will retain the ownership of the area where the casino and the hotel and conference centre will develop after the termination of the ninety-nine concession contract for the total area of the former airport. The distribution of land has been a product of negotiation between the State and the GOI on the one hand and the investment entity on the other. The negotiation was essentially about the ownership of the Greek State over 70% of the area after the end of the ninety-nine period and took place on public interest terms. According to this, firstly, the State retains the full ownership of the operating area in which the casino is located and the non-civilised development zone. Secondly, the public is owned by seven blocks of the building area. Thirdly, the State retains the full ownership of the entire coastal front development area with the marina, which will be maintained and strengthened by commercial and tourism infrastructures. They remain, in other words, in the Greek public, significant tourist infrastructures with added value. At the same time, spaces and areas which will be used by Greek public bodies and organisations to promote tourism, the development of sport and the attraction of investment were ensured. I am thinking, ladies and gentlemen, of the granting of three nine hundred square meters property to the shopping centre, the business centre and the sports facilities designed to develop in the metropolitan park area of green and recreational. In essence, we are talking about an investment of EUR 8 billion that will create seventy-five thousand new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, with these investments Greece is changing, high and sustainable growth rates are being created, new jobs are growing GDP. We have invested, such as the one of the Vlychou marina in Lefkada, which proceeded as soon as the New Democracy took over the government. Within a minimum period of time we have passed all the necessary legislative arrangements to characterise the investment strategy and proceed with fast track procedures. Adopted by the Intergovernmental Committee on Strategic Investments and includes in addition to hundreds of port positions and the creation of infrastructure such as hotels, restaurants, shopping and leisure areas. This is a marina model for our country, which we aspire to become a pole of attraction... (doesn't sound like a bad connection) Sea tourism. Once a number of loose ends are settled between the municipality, the Municipal Port Fund and ENTERPRISE GREECE, the procedures will proceed quickly, the studies and permits provided will be undertaken, which will ultimately lead to the selection of the strategic investor to carry out the project. Investments such as Greek and Marina in Vlychos Lefkada must run throughout the country. To have greater flexibility, to remove obstacles and to get rid of bureaucratic burdens that prevent the country from moving forward. All it takes is the political will and this will of the New Democracy government has it and it shows it in practice. Because investment, ladies and gentlemen, is at the heart of our line. They're part of our genealogical DNA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u93	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u94	I shall conclude, Mr President. The free development of the country, far from ideological blocs, towards the prosperity and progress of all Greeks, is the constant objective of this government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and with Parliament's support for bills such as today, we will achieve it. I wish many years to all Greeks! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u95	The Minister for Finance has the floor for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise because I cannot be at the rest of the procedure. I apologise to the four colleagues who will not be able to listen to them, but I have to go to the airport to welcome the Prime Minister of Russia. I would like to thank you very sincerely for the very fruitful and productive debate we have had these days. I think we have spoken all parties, all Parliament's wings, with a comfortable time for the substance of the investment. We talked about the past, about what happened, what didn't happen. But I think the essence from now on is to talk about the present and the future. The crucial issue is how the investment will be implemented with legal certainty. The positive attitude towards the beginning of two parties in the Response, Officerial Response and KINAL confirms the correctness of government policy. This draft law represents an important, essential step towards the realisation of investment, an investment emblematic for the country, society and the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, too, Minister. Good luck on your mission! Mr. Kourublis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. May I, too, wish for tomorrow's great national festivities. I mean, however, after two hundred years, the country is still threatened. It threatens its national integrity in Cyprus, the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean Sea. That is why we need unity in the internal front to address this risk. I should also like to express my support for the women's movement in Turkey, for President Erdogan's latest darkening decisions and for the support, I believe, of all of us in the philosophical party and politicians persecuted in the neighbouring country. Mr President, we are in the midst of a great storm, which, from the outset, is evidently seen as the policies pursued by the current government in the face of the health crisis are completely ineffective. We have reached a point today, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that people die helpless. We have reached a point where the trade unions are addressing the Prosecutors of the Ice Bay, asking for intervention, because the government continues in a self-sufficient and dangerous way to claim that it has done so well, not to demand the large private hospitals, while demanding private doctors, not to hire doctors who have already been selected, qualified doctors. I'm on my way to the bill. Mr President, two days I have been following a systematic effort by the current government to inspire the perception that she is the only one interested in investment, that she is the only one who can deal with these issues and contribute to the development of the country. I've heard Mr. Stakoura before. I think he's a moderate politician. But I expected him to have the bravery to say and acknowledge the effort made in previous governance to overcome very important and major bureaucratic problems facing all investments in Greece. This issue is a common objective. And the New Democracy was waiting for it to come to the House today more wisely because it argued in the election - I will not say that it lied, that I was going to be trustworthy - that in a week's time it would solve the problem. It's been two years. I hope that it will not take another two years to start this work with any problems that may arise. The choices he has made, I fear, will create huge investment problems for her. Ladies and gentlemen, the mayors invited to the committee, who had not been informed, once again appeared the allergy that New Democracy has in the consultations. When you have not yet secured the consent of local society in such an investment, you will certainly find yourself in very great difficulties. So what has the government tried these days? To charge SYRIZA for not wanting the investment. SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, like PASOK and other parties in the first phase, had a different conception that a large park had to be made. But when the years have passed, the conditions have grown. Heraklitos said: "Everything'. SYRIZA became government. It therefore considered that it should support the investment. And I must confess, because I participated in the Committee on Large Projects, that Mr Alexander Flabouraris worked too hard to overcome many problems. Let the government tell us when the topography of all this space was completed. Let us testify to the discharge protocols of sixty-nine agencies. But he tries in every way to remind Greek society that SYRIZA was negative. He was negative probably, he had another choice for some other years. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance is a sovereign political force, starting from the democratic centre to the left. That's what New Democracy's afraid of. Because it is precisely about a SYRIZA that, of course, wants investment, but it will not deem itself in the altar of profits of some investment or development at the expense of local societies. We want balanced development that will ensure in local societies that the rights of peaceful coexistence and investment centres and residents are guaranteed. I will concentrate, ladies and gentlemen, on the fences. We're being made of suspicion. And this is not limited to SYRIZA's political area, as I have heard even New Democracy MPs claim that there should be no enclosed private space. We know that the apartments that will be sold will be of much greater value when each state ensures them an enclosed space. Here too, there is a crucial issue, on the basis of the position of a very important scientist, Mr Belavila, who very clearly stressed the danger of limiting the front provided for in the contract adopted by SYRIZA and which gave access to the sea to the inhabitants of the region. It was the aim of trying at that time to solve real problems, such as those of disabled people and a number of other activities. I believe that the government must resolve the issues and the loose ends it has with the municipalities. Otherwise she will create her own problems and she will confirm once again that she has not read the question of this investment properly, as it emerges from her commitments that the project would start in a week and today we are closing the second year and God has, to see when this investment will be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Kurubli. Mr Ioannis Pascalides from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is another implementation of the commitments of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis for the recovery of the country and the development of the economy through investment, bringing the bill that marks the largest investment in Greece and one of the largest urban regenerations in Europe at the moment. With a total area of more than two million square meters, the Greek metropolitan park will be a unique green lung for the southern suburbs that can be compared only with the largest and most identifiable parks abroad. According to experts, it is expected to improve significantly the region's microclimate and air quality, offering the inhabitants a spirit of cooling and throwing the average temperature in the summer months that in recent years they have become warmer and warmer. Besides, the coastal zone will be transformed and will now be accessible to the inhabitants and visitors of the area with a central element of a sandy beach of one kilometre open and accessible to all. Moreover, the largest and most modern shopping center in Greece near the metro station "Greek" on Vouliagmeni Avenue, which is expected to turn the commercial interest to the southern suburbs by attracting the most demanding visitors to a unique destination for shopping and entertainment, while also building state-of-the-art office buildings, as well as a research and development centre, which are expected to attract large Greek and multinational companies that are already active or want to develop their activities in our country. Therefore, this bill constitutes the immediate start of this grand investment, including the ratification of the distribution contract and the special distribution diagram, the creation of the property right of the Metropolitan Pole of Greek-Athens Kosmas, the settlement of the procedure for the payment of the property rights of the metropolitan Pole of Greek-Kosmas and the provision of the possibility of precursor work without any charge to the Greek State. In particular, the first part contains Article 1 with the arrangements of which the distribution contract is ratified by the special distribution diagram signed on 9-3-2021 in Athens between the Contracting Parties on the one hand and the Greek State and on the other hand the Private Property Certification Fund of the State S.A., TIADED, so that by indivisible circumstances of the individual real estate, each conglomerate will receive separate parts of the land as described in the above contract fully ownership, ownership and ownership. It is also recommended that the public should be allowed to apply for a period of ninety-nine years, starting from the transfer of rights rights from TEAD to the "Hellenic Real Estate Management and Rating Company of Greece Airport, Anonymous Company Hellenic S.A.". The rules of the third article define the procedure to contribute the goods land and property to the metropolitan Pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas from TIADED to cover the increase of the share capital of “ELELENIKI SA” by the amount of 911.200,000 euros. The second part relates to other provisions of the Ministry of Finance for the metropolitan pole of Greek - St. Kosmas. While the third part contains provisions for the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Energy and includes arrangements to resolve issues that have arisen in relation to the need for the plural, i.e. issues of public interest. Before I close my speech, I would like once again to repeat that the bill under discussion relates to the largest investment that is currently taking place in Greece with a huge extent in the general Greek economy. In addition, the evidence provided to us by Mr Stagioras is characteristic. The entire investment will reach 8 billion euros, while the expected government tax revenues will exceed 14 billion euros in the twenty-five-year investment activity of the construction and operation project, bringing together income taxes, corporate taxes, insurance contributions, real estate taxes and VAT in excess of 911.200,000 euros to be collected from the initial concession contract for the whole area. It is worth mentioning that seventy-five thousand new jobs will be created in the full operation of the project, thus contributing to the 2.4% of GDP aid on the date of its completion. This bill hopes to mark not only the start of a central project that will bring the southern suburbs to the forefront, but the starting point of a series of great strategic investments that will lead Greece to a new era of tourist, commercial, economic and business blooming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Easter. We are now continuing with Mr Georgios Karasmanis from New Democracy and next speaker - and with him he closes the circle of speakers - is Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Karasmanis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely important that the current government has raised to its priority the use of public property, that is, what should have been launched and implemented for at least two decades. This was the result of all these years and, above all, of the years of the deep economic crisis, potentially being lost huge public revenue and of imposing tough and painful measures to the detriment of vulnerable groups in society as a whole. Our Government with its initiatives and its legislative work demonstrates that it has both the political will and the courage and determination to make modalities and rifts. In this realistic policy, only those who see their personal interests being affected react... (it was not heard because of a bad connection)...it is even public bodies that reacted and reacted to the use of public property, so that today one of the three real estates of the state is imprisoned and the rest of the majority remain untapped. So we are coming today in conditions of absolute transparency, with impeccable competitions, with crystal clear procedures, and we are making use of public property. This design includes the implementation of the emblematic project in the Greek, the so-called "fillet" of the capital, a project that will be the largest urban renewal and the largest and most impressive natural park in Europe and one of the largest in the world. Estimates of the most important economic operators, such as IOBE research, but also substantiated estimates and evidence from the Ministry of Finance provide, among other things, that this development project at its construction stage and by 2025 will contribute to an increase in GDP of 1.2%, while in full the investment will increase to 2.4%, contributing not only to the stimulation of growth and public revenue but also to the declining of public debt. Tens of thousands of jobs will be created gradually. There will be hundreds of thousands of tourist arrivals in the capital and all over Greece. The building sector and the dozens of specialities associated with it will be rejuvenated spectacularly. The tax revenues for the Greek State during the period... (it was not heard because of a poor connection)...construction and operation of the project will exceed 14 billion in taxes. To understand the sizes, I would remind you that six million taxpayers last year were asked to pay HIFI 2.5 billion. Mr President, I would like to make a reference to the advantages of this huge investment effort, with a message from our rapporteur, General Tasos Publicakis, a message from a distinguished academic scientist, who spoke attributes what will be the result of this investment. He said he'd have multiplier effects on the national product and on jobs... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection). I come to the amendment I tabled yesterday, with a general number of 810 and a special number of 132. It is an amendment recasting Article 9 of the Ministerial Amendment, namely number 5 and number 127. I am referring to the maritime clubs of international standards honoring Greek colors, have shown distinguished athletes, Olympians, with national and international discrimination... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection). Of the members of these associations, other than having enough financial resources, but, above all, regional resources are lacking possibilities, such as the Yannitson Navy Group on the River Loudia, which operates a rowing station in international standards. The state must, as a minimum contribution to the efforts of such associations, assist them, especially in the difficult times of pandemic, at least by granting the use for a very long time. Because the three years provided for in the original Ministerial Amendment are very short and insufficient. In order for these associations to be able to join financial programmes and be able to make use of them, much more time is needed than three years. In addition, I would like to stress that it is not possible or understandable that such a centre, such as the sports centre in Loudia, has been operating for fifty years in international standards, but cannot be evolving because of bureaucratic obstacles. From ancient times, the Loudia River has been termed cruising and despite the fact that it has a rowing center, involving international struggles, not being recognized as a cruiser... (doesn't sound because of a bad connection)...like almost all rivers in this country. I would add the outrageous, that 4 million were granted in 2005, but because of these bureaucratic claws, because of the property problem, they were unable to absorb them, despite the fact that they proved to meet all the conditions and accumulate all those comparative advantages to develop in an international shipping centre and in a polar of dynamic growth and attraction of internal and external tourism. I therefore consider it very important to commit the Ministry's leadership that in the very near future it will give a solution to this timely issue, on this bureaucratic thorn. Mr. Besiropoulos is a neighbor. It's from Imathia, from neighboring Alexandria. He knows as well as anyone else the problems that exist in this shipping centre. I believe it is time, because this leadership, this government, has shown that it has both the political courage and the political will and the determination to move forward in areas and face chronic diseases and bureaucratic clashes. I believe that the amendment I tabled will trigger the stimulus, the stimulus to provide a definitive solution to this chronic problem faced by the Yannitsa Naval Group and I will follow closely the development of this important issue. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Karasmani. Mr Sarakiotis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. The question of the use of the sites of the former airport in Greek is a very characteristic example, perhaps the most characteristic, of how they dealt with the question of investment, but also of the use of land belonging to the Greek public authorities over time by 2015. By making a simple review of what they have done or have done better what the so-called pro-investing governments have not done for decades is enough to understand the extent of indifference, incompetence, bias and hypocrisy. So let us remember that, within three days of this day, it has been completed twenty years since the start of the airport in Spata, the 'Eleftherios Venizelos', a project for which there has been a contract since 1993. And I will not mention the scandalous terms of the agreement of the then government of Constantine Mitsotakis, but I will dwell on the fact that the withdrawal from the Greek counts now at design level thirty years. From 1993 to 2001 a dead period has elapsed during which every very serious state should have planned what would become the vast area that would be unexploited after the relocation of the airport. Unfortunately, nothing has happened in our country. The same provocative indifference and the next fourteen years, from 2001 onwards. And we remembered in 2014 that there is a huge unexploited area, which you decided to transfer through "ELLINIKI SA" with sixty-nine operators involved in the site, without the agreement signed to include - if possible! - a correct topographical and terms and conditions which have raised many questions about the safeguarding of the public interest. Let us now see what happened in just four years, from 2015 to 2019 of the governance of SYRIZA. Deviations from decades have been resolved regarding forest land, sites of archaeological interest, as well as the Land register. The amending contract was ratified with many improvements from the Parliament in September 2016. The plan for integrated development was approved by a Presidential Decree in March 2018, following the relevant approval by the Council of State. The joint management body of the Metropolitan Pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas was established by means of a relevant legislative act. The property was delivered free of possession of third parties, at least 95%, when in 2014 you were supposed to start an investment, despite the fact that sixty-nine operators were proprietaryly involved. The Greek park park was then issued and the other joint ministerial decisions were prepared, which were now in the summer of 2019 at a final stage. The greatest achievement of the improvements to the amending contract we signed in 2016 is to increase green and extend it toward the sea, i.e. to the regions of Alimos, Faliros and the Greeks. Thus, it has become a enclosed area, as provided for by the Samara - Venizelos Convention, without access for the inhabitants and visitors of the region, to an area with a reinforced environmental and social value, accessible to everyone. However, it was also a huge benefit in terms of the economic dimension of the project, as we won the implementation of infrastructure projects of EUR 1.5 billion, which the investor himself undertook to implement. That's all in four years. And what was the supposed pro-investing government of New Democracy to do, which Mr Mitsotakis promised in June 2019, would start works within a week? Only complete the competition for the casino that was already running since February 2019 and the already prepared MSG version. The weeks passed and the weeks became months and the months became years. Of course you set up a show last year, on the occasion of the demolition of five of the total nineteen buildings of the area. But not to be unfair with you, you did something in those two years. You've managed and kicked out of shape all foreign investors. You have managed and created a line at the exit of investors from the country. Get to the point where you can ministrate and advise private investors. You have still done nothing, despite the amendments, the gifts and the favors. For almost a year now in every bill of any Ministry there has been an amendment to the Greek for the benefit of - oh, of the miracle! - all individuals, you want for public spaces, you want for the height of the buildings, you want for the partial implementation of the project, for the demolition of the facilities, or for the extension of the right to surface and for the grant of an additional right to distribution without the consent of the owner of the land, namely the Greek State. In fact, you also had the nerve and you brought it and voted for it in the Finance Code bill in the middle of severe social reactions. What the SYRIZA has not done in twenty-five years did so in just four. Election by the New Democracy had made the immediate start in a week of work in the Greek, which you were well aware of needed additional work. Mr Georgiadis also knows very well, and he also acknowledges the work he has done over the years, both by Mrs Perkas and by Mr Flamouraris, whom I congratulated yesterday for a multiplier job, which has been done not for the benefit of individuals but for the benefit of the citizens. But you're addicted to lying, making promises and communication. To complete such an investment, such as the Greek one, design, knowledge and commitment are needed. Two years now you have shown that unfortunately you do not have any of this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President, for keeping time. The speaker circle was completed at this point. We continue with the position of the rapporteurs and the special speakers. We're starting with Mr. Kritona Arseni. Mr Arseni, you have the floor. I'll put three minutes with one tolerance until you finish up to five minutes. As far as I can see, the time of protology is exhausted, but there's no problem, we're in time and there might be some comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u106	There are so many amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u107	Yes, Mr Katsotis, don't worry. I'm not interrupting anyone. The floor is given by the special speaker of Mera25 Mr Arsenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. We see that the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement are proud of the cement in Greek. I will recall, because it really is what makes me sadder, the statements made by the President of SYRIZA that this largest "chilet" of the Mediterranean cannot be untrue and ask if I can ask SYRIZA any more...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u109	I'm sorry to interrupt you, but any speaker who wants to speak from the Stepma also in view of the fact that he will definitely have five minutes of speaking time to get the mask out and speak better, gladly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u110	I shall speak from the Step, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u111	Sure. You have the floor. I'm ticking the time. Start from the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we really have to point out that we have seen New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement supporting cementation in the Greek. I'm talking about SYRIZA because it's the one that shocks most. I reiterated the election statements of the President of SYRIZA that the biggest "fillet" of the Mediterranean cannot remain untapped and I really want a clear statement if the metropolitan parks, the areas that are currently left are fillets, land fillets, real estate fillets, real estate speculation fillets. With regard to the walled cities referred to in Article 5, I should like to say that the government took it back in less than a minute before discussing the objection of unconstitutionality we have tabled for this article. I would remind you that you are planning to be fenced settlements, to have gated communities and cities within the Greek island, which is something that is nowhere else in Greece and I hope that there will never be the model "favelas" and rich settlements that are separated by walls. You withdrew it less than a minute before discussing the objection of anti-constitutionalism, which, of course, you failed to tell us that we did so without a reason by circumventing what we have and so on, which you refused and your refusal to support in fact the other parties. And yet you were not ashamed to withdraw it through legal corrections. In other words, it hides, as if you were correcting errors rather than changing a foundation that you introduced by this provision. And I really wonder why SYRIZA also said "no" to the unconstitutionality of Article 5 that included the walled cities. What remains in this convention, of course, in addition to all the incomprehensible decisions that have already been made? Illegal privatisation. It was right here that Mrs Perka began to point this out, that, with the concession of the public spaces to the HICP, we reached 30%, which the private person takes for ever in Greek, about 40% secretly and illegally, and perhaps at 60% by the next secret and illegal privatisation through the right to confiscation of the public property by private individuals, since they have the right to divide into very important parts of your so-called development, that is, there, that the casino will be built by partitioning will be able to keep MOHEGAN. We have also presented reports that show that about 3 billion are missing from the "LAMDA DEVELOPRMENT" and "MOHEGAN" so that they can also make infrastructure and casinos. With what you have brought, it is obvious that there will be many appeals in the Council of State. Instead of exploring in works that will not be done, change course, do it self-evident: a public metropolitan park in the Greek. For jobs, for local development, for the fight against the climate crisis and the health risks we will have from the increased heaters. Finally, I would like to refer to some specific amendments. We strongly support the amendment that you have put forward on compensation for dolphins and MEGA. We had asked for it on several occasions. It is, of course, shameful that once again you are confusing the diamonds with the thorns. You are putting on this amendment articles which you are never able to support, and you will force us to vote against your amendment, even though this part which concerns the workers in the Doll and the MEGA is very much supported. It is an amendment - a sheet with too many issues, rather than distinguishing it so that we can support a few issues in this Parliament. Together you have the concession of the sanctuary to tourist accommodation for three years. You have reached the point of giving the big and now smaller ones. We are generally in agreement with democratisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u113	Finish, Mr Arseny, because you won't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u114	The citizens and residents of the area where they can take a bath? That is the question now. What room will be left for them? In another amendment you give 8 million cumulations, if we measure the different ways in which they will be taken, to the four major groups - canalarchs once again. What the House has given for fifty ICUs so much you give to the four major groups - canalarchs through the strengthening of their various groups. Finally, and I will close with this, on the issue of cleaners, it is really a shame that the Minister tells us indisputably when we denounce him for dismissing the hundreds of contractors, as he hides and wants to hide that he holds five of a hundred, to fly the road to ninety-five. This for the Minister is a solution to the matter. It's ash in the eyes. You're just trying to break this movement. You won't make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, too. As you know, at 14: 00' the other bill begins, and because the vote is by letter vote, it takes a time to get the results. We won't make it. In any case, however, I would like to say that with the five-minute that we are now giving, you have all been overtaken by the time of protagonists and dentology. The special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 198]] First of all, I would like to ask the Minister who is here whether the 300 million will be paid in the first quarter, the advance we mean, as you put in the budget. Is that what would be given in 2020 and in the budget in 2021 will be given? Then I will present in the minutes the contractor of the Greek State and of the HELLINIKON GLOBAL, a subsidiary of LAMDA, based in Luxembourg and with a capital of EUR 36,000, for an investment of EUR 8 billion. We would be ashamed to choose such a counterparty. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now I would like to give a small answer to the Minister of Development, who, as I was informed, was mentioned yesterday to me, saying that we had a confrontation with the recession in Greece in 2020, where I claimed it would be more than 10%. The truth is that what I told him was that if Greece had a recession of 10.5%, according to the statements made by the Minister of Finance, it would be the last in the European Union, based on the announcements of the other countries until then, while Greece had not yet published any information. When ELSTAT announced a recession of 8.2%, Greece was in the fourth place since the end of the European Union of twenty-seven. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's a better ranking, of course, but not one that makes us proud. We are fourth from the end to twenty-seven countries, let alone after a cumulative recession in the previous years of 25%, when most other countries have had growth. The truth is, too, that, to be absolutely honest, I had predicted a 10% recession since April 2020, when the Minister of Finance had predicted much lower. I was right, in fact, if anyone did not include the correction of ELSTAT's figures for the past ten years, and by name, of EUR 4 billion. This, a nominal correction, that is, has never occurred in world history, while removing 4 billion from the past and adding them to the present, reduces the recession, but figuratively, with a creative accounting, i.e., which reminds us of the 'grek statistics', as we had just after the 8.2% announcement. All this reminded me to some extent of the Minister for Transport who accused us of being 'communists' yesterday, because we do not agree with the sale of public property - obviously it is not a charge - among other things, state-owned and parasitic domestic entrepreneurship. And he said that when we asked him where Egnatia cost us 7 billion, which is profitable and who wants to sell, he did not belong either to the public or to the TIAD of foreigners, but to the Greek people because he used it. He did not mention, of course, that the Greek people pay tolls. So, with the same logic, cinemas, for example, used by Greeks by paying tickets belong to them. In addition, he claimed that he would not sell it like the Greek bill with this bill, but would give it as a concession for forty years and then return us. So if you use the same logic for the PSI, with which New Democracy has provided what we have and have not had ninety years, there is no problem, since in 2111 Greece will be returned to us with the key to the hand. As far as the Piraeus Bank scandal for which a debate was held is concerned, dealing with its shareholders is enough to keep us from any serious foreign investor, unless it previously ties us with scandalous contracts such as the one with "ELDORADO GOLD" or the current Greek one. We mentioned it in the HFSF bill, while the reaction of foreign shareholders was expected, with the view that they first “scheduled” the share, as it is said, and then sold out those who had, possibly to participate later in increasing equity with less money. The result was not to lose so much of their sale, but to immerse the Piraeus stock at -22% and the next day at -29%, causing huge problems in the bank, as well as depriving the participation of the CFS. In fact, the bank's project is provocatively similar to the capital increase proposed by the three large shareholders a year ago. At that time it had been rejected as a result of the great resulting loss to the CFSF. What has changed since, so that the CFSF will now accept its proposed loss of more than EUR 1 billion? The government now comes to blame for those who do not agree with its scandalous conventions for not wanting investment, especially when it is the opposite of us, since we believe in private initiative and the free market. We believe in the genuinely free market, however, the 'orthodox' as it is called, neither in the publicity nor in the private sector, nor in any kind of monopoly. Of course, we do not regard the sale of scandalous contracts as investment but as speculation against the Greeks. So we are logically voting against such bills, as well as subtle last-minute amendments, which are either 'photographic' or injurious to our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u117	Thank you too, Mr. Villarde. The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, now has the floor. Mr. Katsotis always keeps the time!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u118	What do we want to note? We want to note that the investor is not negotiating with the New Democracy Government or with the SYRIZA's previous investment terms, but the government with the investor, who sets the conditions to ensure a few more square meters of free space, a few measures of free beach, a few trees above, do not make walls that cause others. The mayors themselves, of course, seek to ensure that they do not be fully exposed to what they have been practicing for the people of their municipalities to accept the criminal investment, as they call it. Now they protest because they see that what they said was 'flying'. We are not surprised by this attitude of the capital parties, as expressed in the municipalities. They serve the needs of business groups and undertake to integrate people's reactions with each instrument. The objectives of the chapter show them as national objectives, that it will be for the benefit of society as a whole. And if they're not convinced, they're putting in front of the repression forces to terrorize, subjugate, and we've seen this project in Halkidiki. These two days we had revealing things, a game, a fake controversy to blur their deal. What can we say as a title? New Democracy and SYRIZA agree to disagree. So they blur the landscape, the common concerns about who will be more useful to investors, who can legislate its every claim. The confrontation between New Democracy and SYRIZA was about who did most to incorporate investors' claims, to overcome the legislative framework that these capital powers themselves had created, to serve the needs of capitalist development. The more you look like it reveals, the more you can hear heavy talk to show you different. But you've been taken by the people. You don't fool him, he'll pay you dearly. We call on him not to be late and now to decide to take part in the fight to overthrow the barbarity that lives from your policy. We particularly call on the workers, the self-employed, the young and the young, the women, the inhabitants of Greek, Argyroupoli, Glyfada, Alamos, Ilioupoli, Brachamios, Kallitheas, Moschatos, Tavrou and all of Attica to fight to be able to breathe and not to be breathed by the temperature, which, according to scientists, will rise five degrees Celsius even to feel the sea breeze in order to see the sea, so that they can take a bath without paying, so that they don't see in front of the dugs up to the sky that they will hide and the sun, which will take place soon after noon, in order to feel safe and not to fear the various parasitic, marginal, coastal activities in their area. We invite them to fight for the creation of a metropolitan park, a unique lung of Attica, for any business that has tragic consequences. This work is criminal for the inhabitants of the region and all of Attica. The jobs you say will be created are what no one wants to have. Not knowing when to work, when to sit, to always be uncertain, uncertain, with annual earnings below the poverty line, with working far-reaching conditions, as people in tourism have been living for years. And in the period when billions of revenues and profits went up over time, wages were hunger, and the working relationships of the Faradays and now in the pandemic that revealed that tourism is directly affected by pandemics, earthquakes, wars, the consequences are falling to the workers with 500 euros, with crumbs the unemployed and the mercy of God, thousands of others. The self-employed in the region are experienced by the malls created, by the chains that act in the area for the evolution of their income, their expectations. Despite their long - worked work they saw the incomes crumble, the debts to drown them, the expectations to make inappropriate dreams. Things will get worse by investing. The only benefits of the investment are the few, the shareholders of the schemes that will be made, which will change their composition, but only they will gain from their investment. All the others will be the injured, as we have noted. For the amendments, we could vote on Article 2 - if the articles were separate - from Amendment 805 that specialists refuse to act on the basis of legal regulations, judicial decisions, interpreting as they want, depriving the workers of the law. Such an example is the case of DOL and MEGA. Workers with their legal support have fought hard for the self-evident, the payment of their legitimate rights. Let us hope that Article 2, with the interpretative provision, will be justified, that they will not find any more windows to continue being arbitrary toward workers. We could vote on Article 1 on the payment of the allowances to the pensioners of ELVO, that is, once again. It is their compensation which is illegally, misrepresented for so many years and has to be paid in accustomed. No, you do not, but you do, on the contrary, make it a condition of payment of compensation for resignation of a judicial claim. We could vote on this article. But let's ask, Mr. Besyropoulou, since you're here. Ten years ago the worker, waiting for the self-evidence of the compensation, if it was 10,000 euros, to make a repair to his home, to meet some vital needs, had to borrow this amount from the banks to do so. Can you tell us how much he would now pay the banks after five years if that were the deal? Tell us how much he would have paid if he took that loan, you guys who took back ten years of this man's compensation. So what do you say? That "you will resign from any claim and will only receive this compensation we give you". We say, therefore, that workers are entitled to them, and you cannot deny them the right to judicial proclamation. The other amendments will be put to the vote. However, we are talking about the first amendment that we will eventually vote 'at present' and we could vote on several articles that satisfy some of the workers' rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. The reason is the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many years in all Greek women, in all Greeks, for tomorrow. Two hundred years from the Greek Revolution, two hundred years since the establishment of the Greek state, as symbolically we celebrate all together, although the establishment of the Greek state took place shortly later. All Greek women, all Greeks will celebrate, in the midst of a pandemic, of course. But we feel that we are - and we will feel tomorrow that we are - in the squares, in the churches, in the parades, or in the one where each and every one of us used to be on this great day, in the midst of a pandemic without many words, but with a lot of love and national unity. After a long time - I feel it - of divisions in recent years of the economic crisis, we have conquered many things with struggles, with sacrifices, with pain, with conflicts, we have all come on this day to celebrate it together. Because I will not forget that exceptions from the conflict were not made either on 28 October or 25 March. Fortunately, Greece has left these things behind. Well, national self-consciousness. To allow me, Mr President, to think about an issue that does not concern today's draft law, but is a very important issue. It is well known now that Turkey has been withdrawn from the 2011 Council of Europe Convention against violence against women and against domestic violence. And it was withdrawn while this convention bears the name of the city to which it was signed, it is the Istanbul Convention, and a few days ago President Erdogan had taken the initiative to defend fundamental rights in that country. I was then given the opportunity to say that, although Turkey is taking initiatives which have an international impact, attempting to have an international impact in view of the change of government in the United States, in view of the problems it has with certain states of the European Union, at the same time 15 - 20 days ago, intellectuals were being tried for their views, what was done against the Kurds, the well-known problems of daily violation of fundamental rights that are taking place in Turkey, the students on the road, the appointment of front-lines and so on. Now this move to withdraw this country from a convention named after one of its cities, Istanbul, is - I think - the photo not of Turkey's multitude foreign policy, but of Turkey's unconvincing foreign policy, which is why it is unconvincing. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to detect in the last few months a course in reverse followed by the leadership of Turkey and especially the President Erdogan. As far as we are concerned, I am very pleased that at the end of this process in Parliament for the ratification of a convention and for other matters included in the draft law, 80% of the Greek people, as expressed in the 2019 elections by their parties, stand in favour. 80% of the Greek people, in relation to the 2019 forces in Parliament, namely the representatives, are voting in favour of a legislative initiative that has a very serious and great international impact. The Greeks and Greek women are not only watching us, we are being watched by the markets. And I consider it very important in view of the difficulties of the future, because, as I said yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, returning to normality does not mean returning to convenience. We'll have great difficulties when we're done, as we all hope, with the pandemic. And our major difficulties will be in the area of the recession in the economy, poverty and unemployment, with the country with its own and only through the 1-2023 year in which, apparently, budgetary relaxation will also be brought to an end. So I think it is very important that the - overwhelming - more here we send this positive message. And I do not think that the attempt of the rest of the parties to say their views, but also to look at the electorate, can have a substantial impact, because Greeks and Greeks know well what they are in need. Now, as far as the amendments are concerned, I can only complain because in one single amendment they also put provisions which we do not want to vote on, and so we weigh on the amendment what is most positive or whether any of the negative ones that the amendment has can give us in the future. And so with this balance we conclude, ladies and gentlemen, in the first amendment, the number 805 of the Ministry of Finance to say 'yes', in the second amendment with number 806/128, although we disagree with an article, to say 'yes' to the other three to say 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u121	Thank you too, Mr. Loverdos. Mrs Theophista Perkas, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. We have reached the end of a discussion of production, as the Minister said. I would particularly like to agree with the committees. I think that, at some point, a culture of dialogue must also be acquired within Parliament that is going to escape populism, wherever it comes from. I'm saying it very clearly. Yesterday, on the contrary, I left with a very unpleasant sense. I don't say we agree, it's impossible, but we can't agree on what we disagree? Can't it be accepted that that's what SYRIZA's government has done, that's what goes on? It can't be accepted that that's where we disagree, but we agree on the other? I cannot understand your MPs. Today, we heard "drugs", "prophets", "SYRIZA sticks to the Greek", what we heard when you were opposition. We are talking about very specific things here. First of all, I would say that it would be much better for you, for the government and the ministers, not to deposit papers. I'll comment on it. It can't be. The first one, therefore, had the twenty-four points of action in twenty months of the country's governance by New Democracy. I laughed at the beginning because this is where he speaks of eight eroding sects which underneath are hanging many administrative acts. When sixty bodies leave, imagine how many acts take place or when discussions are held at the Central Board of Administration, how many meetings, how many minutes or when discussions are held at the Board of Directors. Hey, we're not talking about them, for God's sake! It says here: "Publishing in FEK the views of the "CETOLOGY S.A.". Actions to remove existing public property in the property, there was hardly anything left. Debates of the Council of State.' These are the actions. But there's one that - I don't know, it's wrong - you don't read them? ‘Start...’, says, ‘... the contest for the licensing of casinos’. This was in February 2019. Since when do you think you're government and until when, of course? It is constantly a debate in the plenary on questions of pretext. The twenty-four actions do not exist. It is not a 'block' level action, as the abstract sects do. An abstract cult is this bill. Two buildings and Mr. Georgiadis wasn't ashamed to tell us that nine hundred and eighty-eight buildings have been demolished and are flat? A licence came out, and not just as we did, distinguishing the retainers, the retainers, the tracks, but also an amendment, by means of an act of coercive. But let's go to the other thing that I think is even more serious. I have pointed out, in my view, quite seriously and with arguments, the issue of the public. There's a problem. We disagree, but there's a problem. I turned it up, got back, etc. And the Minister gives me as a counterpart that 'to, and to TEU says the same'. First of all, we ask what the TEI is doing. Not provided. But that's not the most serious thing. I asked her, I got her. There's no T.E. There is the president of the TEI, a vice president of the two, Ms.Souti, who is the legal person who cooperates with "ELLENIKI SA" and is nothing. It's a disgrace. Don't deposit documents, they're exposing you. Already in the TEI, it's a mess, because this committee doesn't exist, it's an instrument. I've been in the management for years. There's no committee, there's no decision from the commander. The president went with the vice president, Mrs. Siotis, and made a conclusion the Minister brought. He was exposed. So I don't want to talk, all right, about what happened yesterday. It was a shame yesterday, the parliamentary representative, Mr Raguss, said so. Can Minister make a picture of the Chief of Officer Response with a banner that had no hands? Hands left on the other photo. It's a disgrace! We are talking about raising the level of debate in Parliament. To stop these, please. And another piece of paper, which I was very worried about, is why the Minister reminded me of something. This paper was that election paper, it could also have been a "LAMDA" bonus for the New Democracy, which the "LAMDA" said "if we don't move". Until then, we were told and told, I still think that we made a great deal of progress on the Greek. Suddenly they'd leave. Every three and a few people who asked for something and did not do it, LAMDA would leave. The investors finally left with New Democracy, but the fact that we have a long time to see paper, a little worries me. They obviously have no more request than is the case. I'll say some positive. It's a good thing, the debris for the fence. It doesn't completely cover us, but at least he responded to the construction site, to the temporary, something happened. Also positive is the Minister's intervention in the distribution diagram, which is a distribution diagram. He should not have any elements of town planning up, because there are too many ambiguities, because there is one, but there is not the other. It has been clarified, therefore, in the Minutes that this is not about the Presidential Decree and the Staff Regulations, but just as it shows a sloppiness and a technical deficit. Why don't you do it? As far as our position is concerned, listen a little. We heard a lot yesterday. We heard on the one hand that spearheading is given by one government to another. I will say that simpler work is not enough for a government's term of office, it goes beyond it, and we do not go back to the beginning and "walk up". But here, we must agree on what we disagree, recognise the work done, not overthrow it, not redesign from the outset, as the New Democracy Government does in too many projects and, of course, listen and improve. We said in favour of the principle, because this bill is a defective heresy. If he enters the probative sect not to be paid, it means that the investment is not made. We have never said that we are not in favour of investment, no matter what Mr Georgiadis brings, for the simple reason that we have amended it, we have made it much more friendly to the people, in the public interest, has legal certainty. We have worked very hard, I think, collectively. Because it's not enough to say congratulations to one or two. We worked collectively and did something that could stand. It must, however, stand if all this is to be observed. The issue of the public and the issue of the right of surface. The Minister never answered us about the right to surface. He was answering us about the public with the TEI. It doesn't matter. He was giving an answer. For the right to land, the right to partition without the consent of the gentleman and the burdens to stay in the property never answered us. I don't have much time, I think. I explained. But there are limits. We said in favor, it's a bridging cult, good. Article 1, which in fact - we have proved with figures and figures - gives more rights and scope, but also the fragmentation of the right of the surface, unfortunately we cannot support it. This is very serious. We will therefore obviously vote against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u123	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u124	I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would like to say that, of course, they come, as the previous rapporteurs of the other parties have said, amendments to each other. But they're fine, but they're unacceptable. They were analysed, I think, by many SYRIZA MPs. We will vote only on the amendment that has the workers in the DOL, number 805. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, too. Mr Pinheiro, rapporteur from the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the process is being completed and I believe that the investment in the Greek from a narrative is being transformed into reality. It radically changes Attica's image with economic, social, tourist, investment and cultural benefits. Jobs, the upgrading of the environment, new modern buildings, modern infrastructures will launch the coastal front development. This is the greatest challenge for the current government, which has been electorally committed to its implementation and, in spite of the adverse circumstances, has transformed it into action, ensuring a huge potential, as I said in my protology, but a dynamic which may undermine the commercial and business activity of the historic centre of the capital, perhaps leading it to collapse. The center of Athens had depraved its glow from the action of offender groups that plunge the neighborhoods of Athens in contrast to all the glamorous capitals of Europe. The New Democracy Government has sought from the first moment - and gradually succeeded - to make up for the vacancy of a whole government period. The other European capitals have long been overrun by these 'children' diseases. It is time to do so too. The resumption of the historical buildings that had been converted into bulwarks and warriors, the control of all those who practice violence and cruel crime, as well as the return of educational institutions to students and teachers, open the way, to return civilization, investment, the regeneration of a capital that has been lost in the dark of idealism. The Municipality of Athens is making extremely friendly efforts in order to upgrade the image of Athens. However, the center of Athens is not just a district of the city, but it is the soul of the Greek state, it is highly symbolic and what is happening there is beamed throughout Greece, whether it is growth or decline. That is why it is important to ensure balanced and fair growth and the centre of the capital. From the start of the implementation of the emblematic investment in the southern Athens sector until its completion, a resurrection plan for the capital must be drawn up and implemented. The greatness of Athens has bred significantly, but not irreparably. In conclusion, Mr President, I welcome and thank the Minister for the Minister for Rural Development and Food, who, with the amendment of a general number of 806 and a special number of 128, has met a request that is vital to the TWG and GFCF of Evros and to the whole of the country. Legislatively we are dealing with the serious malfunctioning of these agencies and their forced inertia, because of a pandemic, is a past and indeed in view of the new growing season. The amendment, with a general number 808 and a specialist of 130 of the Ministry of Culture, makes it easier to carry out antiquities in all sporting organisations and achieves uniformity of the statutes of all sporting players. Some, unfortunately, forget that Law 2725/1999 prevails in the recent 2020 law. I subscribe to the amendment with a general number of 810 and a specialist of 132 from 22-32021 on the subject of "Full use of space for maritime union activities" tabled by diligent George Karasmanis, MP of Pellas The definition of "supportable river" will be justified, as stated by the leadership of the Ministry of Finance, in the next law to be filed in the Greek Parliament. The ministerial amendments as a whole are useful, flexible, solve citizens' problems and make the state strong and effective, but at the same time make it consistent with the workers, such as the Greek Vehicle Industry. I am voting in favour, Mr President, of this law as a whole and in writing, as well as of the amendments which are a body of the relevant law. I invite you all to do the same in an overall effort that the place needs. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, universal Hellenism has already started in the eastern hemisphere celebrating the two-year anniversary of regenerativeism. This year's double celebration of Hellenism, the Evangelism of Theotokou and the Revolution of 1821, lifts the curtain of the third century of freedom for the Greek state, a freedom that was conquered by sacrifices within centuries and which is still not given, because the enemy remains active. With a view to the past, we have, as we owe it, to the achievements. With a view to the future, we join the Greeks in the traits of the Greek spirit that have been praised for the centuries, the greatness and the masculineness. In the era of globalisation, Hellenism unites its voice from the four points of horizon, to remind us that our share of history is disproportionate to the modern borders to which we have been restricted. From the step taken by the Greek Parliament, I wish to wish the Greeks many years. In the face of President Peter Katsabanis of the World Interparliamentary Union of Hellenism, the well-known PAFE, we honor the three hundred Greek MPs and senators who dedicate foreign parliaments throughout the globe. Happy birthday! You've been free for years! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u127	Thank you too, Mr. Prussakis. The State Secretary, Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in completing the debate on the bill, I would like to dwell on a positive report which is no more than the broad and inter-class majority with which this bill will be passed. I hope that this development will be a sign of a collective maturity of the political system. The illusions and ideas retreated because they were crushed in the face of truth and reality. It is high time, then, that we all realise that growth will come through investment and economic activity, to realise that Greece must give a clear and clear signal that it is transformed into a country that is investment-friendly. Starting work to exploit the Greek will be a strong message. This bill also removes the most recent obstacles. The use of the Greek area is a model. It combines business with the creation of a park of two million square meters with free access to the public, the largest park in Europe, which connects the Attica Sea Front to the mountainous volume of Hymittos. It is an investment of an enormous scale and a scale of 8 billion euros. It is expected to create seventy-five thousand new jobs and increase by 2.4% of GDP until the project is completed. The important thing is that, beyond the total price of EUR 915 million, public revenues will exceed EUR 14 billion, resulting from tax revenues corresponding to income taxes, corporate taxes, insurance contributions, real estate taxes and VAT. The provisions of the plan relating to the distribution of the property were negotiated. A negotiation aimed at creating the conditions for the immediate start of the work of implementing the investment project and for the practical strengthening of the public interest. This is evidenced by the fact that, first, the State retains ownership of 70% of the land. Secondly, the State retains full ownership of the unique development area where the casino, in other words the most privileged area, is located. Thirdly, the State retains full ownership in the coastal front development area with the marina and the functions associated with commercial and tourist activity, as well as the Olympic Sailing Centre. Fourthly, the ownership of the Greek State remains in the northern town planning area to the area of Vouliagmeni Avenue, where over-locations and activities with dominant uses of trade, offices, tourism, higher education, research and innovation will be developed. Fifth, three ground floors are granted free of charge to the public for seventy-five years, a total area of nine hundred square meters in the commercial and business centre and at sports facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, in voting on this bill, the last obstacles to the realisation of this great investment are removed. Since the first day of taking responsibility for governance, the government has promoted institutional and legislative initiatives that create a friendly and attractive environment for the development of business and investment activity. The Prime Minister himself, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has given a clear signal: Greece aims to attract large investments in the coming years to create the conditions for dynamic and sustainable growth. This is a constant attempt. It is the opening of a new path along which we will be able to see the country's GDP growing, creating wealth, creating new jobs and increasing the incomes of citizens. This is the national objective and the New Democracy Government is committed to this objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Preparation of a Real Estate Distribution Convention - Establishment of a Property Right - Metropolitan Pole of Greek - St. Kosmas and regulation of related issues". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. The principle of the bill has been applied for a roll-call vote by Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u130	In view of the special circumstances, I will not read out the list of signatories, as we consider that there is the necessary number to proceed with the vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Electronic roll-call vote will take place at the beginning of the draft law. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters and faxes (fax) colleagues have been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House and the decision of the Conference of Presidents on Thursday 24 September 2020, with which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count which will be followed. [[The above-mentioned letters with votes shall be tabled for the minutes and shall be in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] As the procedure seems to have been completed, I would therefore ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u133	By the end of the count, we will proceed to the next two agenda bills: 1. Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: ‘Conclusion of the Convention establishing the European Communications Office (ECO) [Hamburg, 23 June 1993], as amended in Copenhagen on 9 April 2002 and Copenhagen on 23 November 2011’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: ‘Preparation of the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, on the European Plans for Entities for Navigation’. The above bills were adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to ratification for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, and for five minutes, provided that the President of their parliamentary group does not speak. The vote of the two conventions will take place at the end of their debate separately and in the order of debate. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u134	The House has agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will be interrupting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. I would like to remind you that for ratification of the Convention establishing the European Communications Office, New Democracy voted in favour, SYRIZA, the Change Movement, the Greek Solution and the Mera25 vote against the Communist Party of Greece. For the ratification of a Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, on the European Navigation Site Programs, the New Democracy and the Change Movement voted for, the reservation was expressed by SYRIZA, the Greek Solution and the Mera25 and voted against the Communist Party of Greece. We said there would be a single debate. I will give the floor first to the rapporteur by SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, Mrs Anastasia Gara.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to ratify two European conventions, which, on the one hand, highlight progress at European level in relation to postal, electronic and satellite communications, and on the other hand highlight the path of regression or inaction that our country has entered because of government choices. The first Convention provides for the establishment of the European Communications Office, which is based in Copenhagen and is essentially the successor to the European Radiocommunications Office and to the European Telecommunications Office. In accordance with this Convention, the European Office will operate as an advisory point for the collection and provision of know-how by experts, postal and electronic services, identifying problematic aspects in the field of postal and electronic communications services. The creation of the Office should contribute to the optimum provision of services to consumers in the field of postal and electronic communications, two areas requiring improvement and assistance in our country. Both the know-how and the experience of this institution should be fully exploited in order to exploit resources and opportunities for interconnection with other states so that our country strengthens its role in these areas. We regret, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that the Government in the postal services sector is in no way in the form of aid, such as Europe. Already before the outbreak of the pandemic we saw locking up in many stores of Greek Posts throughout the country, due to the dismissal of contract workers. The famous transformation and resolution plan for the restructuring of the company brought about the dismantling of labour relations and expelled approximately two thousand workers out in the form of voluntary leave. The ELTAs are thus constantly devastated by limiting their services with a negative impact on the service of citizens, especially in the region and in the outermost regions. A characteristic example is daily newspapers in the region, which are not delivered daily to subscribers, but twice a week usually at the same cost as before. You realize that only fresh news is not available for regional daily newspaper readers. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that at the same time at European level, efforts are being made to strengthen the role and involvement of the public in the field of these services, through the creation of the Communications Office, while the involvement of the public is constantly limited. At the same time, Minister, it is urgently necessary to take initiatives to strengthen and improve the quality of the Internet. Especially in pandemic conditions, when several activities have been shifted to the digital field, it is necessary to extend and reduce the cost of using the Internet, as well as to reduce charges on telecommunications in order to reduce labour inequalities. Our country is the thirty-third - I highlight it attributes - more precise country at connection costs and sixty-fourth at internet speeds than in other areas. With regard to the Second Convention, the Convention of the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the European Navigation Supplies Programmes, this draft law also states that the cooperation agreement signed by Switzerland in 2013 to fully participate in the GALILEO and EGNOS programmes is to be ratified by our country. These programmes also involve third countries, outside the European Union, with Switzerland contributing retroactively EUR 80 million for the period 2008-2013. Switzerland is one of the Union's closest partners in the GALILEO and EGNOS programmes and has contributed politically, technically and economically to all phases of the programmes. "GALILEO" is one of four global navigation satellite systems and provides space signals to receivers who use this data to determine their location anywhere on Earth. ‘EGNOS’ is an auxiliary system that enhances accuracy in the use of global systems. GALILEO is an autonomous civilian satellite navigation system and has been designed and developed by the European Union, the European Space Agency and the respective Member States, including Greece. ‘EGNOS’ provides navigational services to air, sea and land-based users throughout Europe. These flagship programmes, together with "COPERNICUS", were the three contagious space programmes for Europe in the 2014-2020 programming period.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u137	Your tolerance for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u138	Alas. It's two contracts, so there's tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u139	Thank you. Afterwards, the European Union is working on a new, complete, integrated space programme for the period 2021-2027 and it is particularly important for our country to continue to have an increased presence in the work and designs of the European Space Agency, which has been launched by the SYRIZA Government and, indeed, it has accepted - you will all remember - hard criticism of all times against the backdrop of the then opposition in New Democracy, without understanding the contribution and usefulness of the new technologies. But then, it was that real bases came in and important steps were taken in the form of a modern national space policy. I would remind you that when the Greek Space Agency was first founded, the officials of the New Democracy were pre-electionally mocking and promulgating that they would abolish the organization and finally all they did was maintain the organization and change its name at the Hellenic Space Center. During the period of governance of SYRIZA, cooperation agreements were also concluded with international organisations such as NASA and the Space Industry Companies. In addition, the satellites "Hellas Sat 3" and "Hellas Sat 4" were launched which enabled us to provide independent satellite communications, country defence systems service, weather prevention, border control and other activities. At the same time, the financing of a project was announced for the construction and launching of eleven microprocessors by Greek scientists for various applications. Unfortunately, you have done nothing to implement this programme and in general we see a government inertia on space policy issues. Finally, using open data from the "COPERNICUS" system, an excellent project for digital transformation of the agricultural sector was launched in our country, which modernises agricultural production. I am thinking of the creation of a public platform of intelligent agriculture, which contributes to modern, more efficient and sustainable primary production, but also to the creation of thousands of jobs and support for science and scientists. This is a project designed to support Greek farmers in real time by providing personalised agricultural solutions and advice. This work is an important example of our country's benefit through space applications. It is a project that we have planned and launched, but unfortunately this has been delayed, probably frozen in New Democracy's governance. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise the enormous importance that our participation in these European programmes, as well as the structures based on technological progress and innovation, has for Greece. However, it is really unpleasant, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss two important conventions today which, on the one hand, show us the enormous steps taken at European level in the fields of postal and electronic communications - and space policy - and, on the other hand, to remind us at the same time of the path of regression, inertia, of delay in which the New Democracy Government has taken the country. Instead of grabbing the opportunities that are being given and jumping towards modernization and digitisation of technological and productive development, we are seeing inertial, lack of initiative and freezing of initiatives and programmes taken by the previous government. Of course, the New Democracy Government does not show the same inertia when it is going to sign opaque contracts, like the one that sells millions of citizens' data to a company. I am referring to the well-known contract of Mrs Keramos with the company 'CISCO', an agreement you hid for months, even trying to convince us that she is also donated to the Greek state by the company, and it turned out that any other donation was, since for a system which, halfway through the day, was not working, the other half did not work, creating many problems in televising and training for students and students, we paid an additional EUR 2 million plus the metadata of Greek citizens. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are proving yourself excellent in opacity, excellent in selling, excellent in regression, but inactive in modernization and progress. Thank you. Happy birthday to our country. With a high head, with solidarity, with cooperation, with cohesion, we must once again overcome all our difficulties!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u140	And we thank Mrs. Gara. Mr Ilhan Ahmet has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the well-known Greek saying "the wolf on the hopbouple" fits a glove in the way the Ministry of Digital Governance scores public money to friends and acquainted with direct assignments throughout the pandemic. You are so fond of these direct assignments that at every opportunity you are renewing the specific provisions that we first saw at the beginning of the coronary crisis, on the grounds of the extremely urgent situation. A time-consuming emergency, however, ceases to be urgent. The way in which amendments to the Public Contract for ‘REFERENCE II’ were made through ‘K.P. S.E.", in order to ensure a hundred and fifty-four thousand licenses Webex for Education of "CISCO" annual use for the needs of the Ministry of Education, brings to light how we "do a game" with public procurement. We decide and order, without official consultation, without negotiation, without even a competition. The Minister or the Minister's office shall order and public contracts shall change. You will tell us that, despite any changes, the cost of these implementing contracts remained the same. That's true. But the point is what we finally bought and what we paid for the same money. So we paid EUR 1.896 000 for the Platform Webex Meetings for Education of 'CISCO', for a period limited to 12 months, whereas with the initial public procurement, before the amendment, we would have obtained a licence for the 'HUAWEI' platform and the Desktop product for a period of thirty-six months. Conclusion: Donation from ‘CISCO’ does not exist. ‘CISCO’ has even been paid unreasonably through the ‘CISCO’ II programme. And it was paid, because in your mind, every crisis for you is the opportunity for jobs with the private sector always and not for the creation of infrastructure projects, as would be the creation of a public free telecommunications platform. Such projects require planning, work and vision, which we unfortunately do not see in this government. Of course, they also require another political and economic agenda from that hard economic liberalism, which you have chosen and served fanatically. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Communications Office, which we are debating today and which we are called upon to ratify with this Convention, is, as you know, taking over the tasks of the European Radiocommunications Office, as well as the European Telecommunications Office. I will not go any further into the analysis of the articles. In addition, I think they were presented sufficiently by our party and during the debate in committee. Since, however, the European Communications Office established is, as the explanatory statement says, aimed at contributing substantially to the creation of a dynamic market in the field of European postal and electronic services, I would like to raise the issue of postal and Greek postal services again, because the Minister's response during a debate in the committee was not entirely satisfactory. We have all seen that in our country the combination of lockdown, holidays and discounts has reached both private courier companies and ELTAs and have revealed that doubled infrastructure, equipment and staff are needed at all levels. At the same time, however, you promoted the voluntary exit of a thousand nine hundred and sixty-eight workers under the threat of compulsory movement to another public service, with the aim of allegedly refining them. So to date, what we see in the Greek Post is the abolition of all the rights of workers. You have promoted a model of cheap and devalued work. However, even today you refuse to hire new staff. We believe that you are progressing systematically to the deterioration of the ELTAs. The reason is simple. During our assessment, you are planning to privatise the ELTAs and indeed at public expense, as much as you refused it during a debate in the committee. By voting for Law 4758/2020 you have, of course, promised the exception of the Hellenic Post Office, but you are probably using this term somewhat abusively, since in practice a number of ELTA stores in Attica and the region have even been left with one employee. We wonder what is going to happen in the summer in the islands that have been left with a single postman. Moreover, this postman is also invited to serve the smaller islands belonging to the same municipality. Do you think that's possible? What if one employee gets sick, for example? However - and I do not want to go far - the European Office Convention obviously and I shall be voting in favour of it. Two words about the other Swiss Confederation convention. Although we had been placed in the House, I would just like to dwell on the Space Agency as far as our country is concerned. For the three years 2017-2019 we participate in the programmes of the intergovernmental European Space Agency with around 38.5 million euros, and in particular the 30 million euros go to the mandatory section and the 8.5 million euros to the optional section. Since I consider this to be particularly important, I would like to ask you, Minister, from the Step of the House, hoping that you will answer me, since, in a written question, which we have asked you twice, you have not answered the following question so far: why do you not tell us what the situation of Greece's permanent representation is at the European Space Agency and what should be in line with financial participation in this? So how many of them are Greek employees and how many should they be at the European Space Agency, run by some two thousand people, who come from all Member States and include scientists, engineers, IT specialists and administrative staff? What about the contract under discussion? Obviously, we support the cooperation agreement with Switzerland and will obviously vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, because of the special circumstances, the health conditions of the pandemic, the Conference of Presidents decided, as the President of the House must, to say hello to the dual celebration of 25 March, to the National Palagy and the Evangelism of Theotokou. Mr President of Parliament, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, we obviously do not have the two-year celebrations from the declaration of our national revolution in 1821, with the conditions that we would all like, but, even so, the juncture, topicality, the difficult situation that we are facing, and let us recognise that even this difficult time, which is now many months away from this sanitary demon, does not outweigh emotionally, spiritually, intellectually, the honour that we must show to the greatest anniversary of Hellenism. "Hellas will form an independent state and will enjoy all the righteous, political, administrative and commercial rights which have been fully independent." It is the first article of the Treaty of London on 3 February 1830 between the Great Powers at that time, England, France, Russia, which recognised the independence of our country. "All the countries and the places to the south of this line shall belong to Greece." The spaces and locations located south of this line. What line, ladies and gentlemen? The line defined by the estuaries of Acheloos and Sperhoea. This was the first Greece in 1830, Greece south of the line of the escapades of Sperhios and Aspropotamos, Acheloos, plus Evia, Sporades, Cyclades. And with a head office in Greece, two hundred years later, we are here today. "Memory" - writes Dionysius Red in the shocking "History of the Greek Revolution - "There was the great first chapter of the notorious man to conquer the new streets. The need to develop this weapon was created by history. It is the knowledge of the tested forces of a people and its manifested capabilities..." - be careful of the tested forces and their manifested qualities - "...in the obstacles, trials and conquests over the centuries." "Without knowledge of the past, it is impossible to measure the strengths of the present, nor to look to the future," says academic Dionysius Red. Today we are in front of the shocking event of the completion of two centuries after the outbreak of the Revolution, that is, the outbreak of the most glorious and most important event of the History of Modern Hellenism, which led to the creation of the Greek state after a nine-year-old epic struggle against rival unparalleled stronger. The factors of '21, which prepared the revolution of '21, are well known. I repeat them and present them. The tradition of the Greek race, not only as a consciousness of history but also as inherited and taught subconscious tendencies that wake up and lead us to our destiny, when necessary. Not all revolutionaries in the 1921s were familiar with the constitutional tradition of the French Revolution or the American Revolution, not knowing Aristotle or Plato, despite the existence of Enlightenment, despite the existence of the antiquity, which prepared the Revolution, were most very simple people, who, in their conscience, were actively working on the need for liberation and the need for the creation of a Greek state. "I hear hollow rifles, I hear smash of swords, I hear wood, I hear pelves, I hear tooth trimming." With tooth trimming, with pearls, with rifles and swords the Revolution became and of course the enlightenment, and of course the archaic worship, and of course the first institutions played their part, but the main role played the unmistakable mind of an inspired people, who had in it a sense of returning to the forefront of history. When, ladies and gentlemen, Istanbul was first occupied by the Franks, it was heard in one of the empires created after Istanbul of the Byzantines came out of the Great Ideas. It was heard before the desolation of Constantinople: "And we are received, that we are stranded." And our homelands will get back to us, which we lost by making mistakes. This touching precursor to the Great Idea event for centuries worked in the consciousness of the Greeks and when the conditions allowed it became the outbreak of the Revolution of '21. So the tradition of Genus, the Orthodox Greek Church, which was coherent, with the preservation of the language and tradition and a substitute of the state, the spiritual leadership of the nation, for which I spoke, all these teachers of the Genus, who also made Greece and internationally the need to have the Greek standing, to have the Greek state, the Friendly Society, obviously, with capital letters, the acne of the Greek navy and the military power of Hellenism through the thieves and armourists were the factors that contributed to the outbreak of the Revolution. The events began with the friction, with the invasion of the Sacred Hipsilant in the area of Peristrian Hegemonies, in Moldoblajah. When this first revolutionary outbreak began, it created a strong diversion to proclaim the Revolution, which took place one month later, in March 1821, in southern Greece. We arrive at the end of 1821. The Revolution is established in southern Greece and on January 1, 1822, the political existence and independence of the nation is expressed in Epidaurus by a parliament that votes for its Constitution. In 1822 and 1823 we have the stabilisation of the Revolution after Dramalis’ collapse and the destruction of the Turkish flagship in Chios from Kanaris. In 1824 the first fall was noted. We've got the first civils. In 1825 Ibrahim entered the Peloponnese. In 1826 we have the Messologist's Exodus and the glory that it has produced and the positive impact it has caused mainly in Europe because of the Turkish atrocity. In 1827 Karaiskakis managed to resurrect the race in Central Greece. However, problems continue. The Acropolis is handed over. But what I told you before is that unscrupulous will to fight - which has already reached the eight-year period - is to raise the interest of the international diplomatic factor, which, by pressing also by phillinism but also by its interests, decides to resolve the issue of the Greek Revolution as a serious issue concerning international diplomacy. In 1827 we have Nafyarino, for which a great and diplomat and scholar writes, Angel Vlachos: "When I returned to Greece and went like a pilgrimage to Nafyarino, I crossed by boat that sea surface, swimming on the Greek freedom, and crystal clear waters allowed you to be enslaved in the bottom of the rocks and shrouds of the once powerful Ottoman fleet. On the surface he played a light breeze that created numbering bright smiles. And all that blue-colored area seemed to me like a grave, I'd dare say, laughter." In 1828 Kapodistrias - Argentine change of scenery - takes over Central Greece and in September 1829 Dimitrios Ypsilantis achieves the last victory of the Greeks against Turkish troops in Petra, Boeotia. On 3-2-1830 London, the agreement that builds the first Greece is signed, with its limits on the line of the estuary of the Sperkion and Acheloos. On April 8, 1830, the ambassadors of the three Great Forces at the High Gate issued a copy of the London Agreement at the Ottoman Gate. A few days later, the Ottoman Gate accepted the London Agreement and recognized this independence of Greece. The Greek Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, is taking part in these celebrations and we will be glad to hear - at first carefully, online, later with a lively presence - the important report that we have already prepared. We've made her two levels. The awakening of Hellenism will be presented in Perstylion, all that led to the outbreak of the Revolution from 1770 to 1821, which has to do with phillinism, with enlightenment, with the influence of the Orthodox Church, i.e. the need to resurrect what was called Greece again in the vast area of the Ottoman Empire, which was still almighty. That's all in Perstylion. Upstairs at the Eleftherios Venizelos Hall, we will have diplomatic, military and political events from 1821 to 1833, until the first and second recognition of Greece's independence and the advent of Otto. Most of the important events that led to independence will be presented there. In Perastylion the preparation, in the Tropical Room, of the processes, the outbreak and the completion of the Revolution. We have an incredible material. We see in the press, from the Commission "Greece 2021", from institutions, from banks, from institutions, from all over this time, unfolding all this fascinating adventure of our nation over the last two centuries. I am sure that the Greek people, despite the pandemic, especially these days, especially tomorrow, will understand that everything, even this incredible trial we are going through, is bowing to the price of this anniversary. We need to overcome this crisis and we will overcome this crisis, but we need to think again - because it is optimistic - how we started out, how hard we started counter to every prediction and how we managed to be a country that is part of the European core and feels that under specific conditions, tangible, it can grow and even exceed its current level by a lot. We start tomorrow in the third century of modern Greece and start it in a difficult situation, but without defeat. We start it with optimism, knowing, repeating how difficult we have started and where we have arrived. The "Hymnon to Freedom" did just this thing, commemorated what we conquered in 1821. For several decades now, the European Union has been an anthem of the 'Ode to Joy' since the 9th Beethoven Agreement. And "Ode to Joy" is only music, no words. Because it is possible for music without words to inspire equally intense emotions. So, at the threshold of the new era, knowing our history, proud of our history, we can also claim and achieve the protection of precious freedom, but also claim and gain prosperity, prophesying, ego to joy, which each Greek and Greek is entitled. Happy birthday for tomorrow and you are all sure that despite the difficulties, despite this incredible, strange adventure that we are going through, it is not shortened, it is not small enough, tomorrow's anniversary is not marginalised. Every Greek and every Greek keeps it in his heart as a amulet to help him in the next steps, which will be, he may be and must be, steps to safeguard what we have achieved, but also steps more conquests, steps from freedom to joy. Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u144	We warmly thank the President of the Greek Parliament for his own words about the national feast and the two hundred years from our liberation. We are continuing to work on legislation. I invite the MP of the Communist Party of Greece and a special speaker, Emmanuel Synthraki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. The civil revolution of 1821 is timely and its message is timeless. It shows that the determined and organized people can defeat opponents who seem invincible. The circumstances have, of course, changed since then. The substance stayed the same. But the message remains the same and indelible. When peoples are united, they can really triumph. The revolutions have always been a vehicle of social progress that overturns their historically outdated classes and power. The urban revolution of 1821 then had the urban order as a vehicle of progress. Today, two hundred years later, this bourgeois class has now stopped being a force of progress. Today, the new body of revolutionary changes is the working class, which, along with its allies, will make the attack on the heavenly, establishing the new society, the socialist. I'm going through the contracts now. Mr President, we are called upon to take a position on two international conventions. As regards the first, on the establishment of the European Communications Office, this convention is an intergovernmental convention involving forty-eight countries and non-European Union countries. That is not an agreement from the European Union. The amendment of the European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications Bodies establishes an organisation, the European Communications Office, which merges the originals provided for by the European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications Bodies, the European Radio Communications Office and the European Telecommunications Office as an advisory centre for expertise in the Presidency and the Committees of the European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications Bodies. This amendment to the Convention is therefore being used as a tool on the part of the European Union to promote the liberalisation and commercialisation of the telecommunications and postal sector. The European Communications Office aims, as the Report says, to contribute to the creation of a dynamic market in European postal and electronic services. All these successive amendments to the telecommunications rules are to establish common criteria for the allocation of radio spectrum at national level as a precondition for creating incentives for investments in high-speed broadband connections. In the same direction, moreover, it is also the recasting of the directive establishing the European Electronic Communications Code, which was ratified some time ago by plenary, and seeks to strengthen the competitiveness and profitability of European monopolies in the field of new technologies for very high capacity fixed and mobile networks and high-speed broadband networks, 5G being and amending the regulation establishing the European regulatory body for electronic communications which promotes the creation of a single European Union agency for electronic communications. The question is: why does this speed change to European and national telecommunications legislation? Will broadband, radio spectrum, in general, reduce workers' suffering and improve their lives? No, we are. Just the opposite is going to happen. It wants to guarantee investment, ensure the profitability of European groups in their competition with their rivals, China, the United States, Russia, India. This is why it completely liberates the market for telecommunications and postal services, privatizes the Greek Post Offices, what remains state, giving them the dowry of all the public infrastructure, the popular property. The people and youth have a bitter experience of the consequences of market liberalisation. Their access to traditional electronic communications will remain accurate. New technologies, services and products will be unavoidable. Workers have the possibility of freely enjoying the achievements of science and technology, provided that monopolies make their associations and power out of the middle, to live the lives they deserve and can live. The general developments in electronic communications technology significantly increase the possibilities for combining people's needs. There are conditions for increased productivity and therefore a reduction in working time. Upgrade health and education services, easy access of workers to public services. The need to develop electronic communications is therefore obvious. Also evident are certain needs which can be the objectives of the development of electronic communications in individual areas of importance, such as health, telemedicine, hospital interconnection, research institutes, universities and much more. One could continue by highlighting similar needs and objectives in each sector. The basic question, however, about the future of electronic communications, is whether universal and basic right to communication must be a commodity or, on the contrary, must be guaranteed as a social asset. Today, two strategies are being reconstructed. The first is the European Union that promotes and considers communication, information, digital dividends, frequency spectrum as a commodity. The second strategy is the one supported by the Communist Party of Greece, which considers social rights to be public goods in communication, information and information. This outlet, which promotes people's needs and focuses on the political conditions for their combined implementation, namely the socialisation of the main means of production, central planning and labour control, is what the JRC proposes, of course, in a context of a popular economy, with a single state communication body, which can ensure cheaper, easier, faster and safer access for all citizens to a wide range of instruments and services, to integrate broadband into the universal service. Now in relation to the second convention: this is a 2013 agreement. It concerns Switzerland's participation in the European global satellite navigation programme under the ‘GALILEO’ programme and the European Navigation Agency, ‘EGNO’. Satellite navigation is nothing neutral, however, is no neutral program. Satellite navigation is a particularly important multipurpose space application. The development of the European Union's satellite navigation system 'GALILEO' would be a contribution to humanity, navigation, navigation of aircraft, even to the identification and rescue of people, if we did not have serious indications that the European imperialists also intended it for military use in the context of the competitions of the imperialist centres, despite the assurances of the convention that this was clearly a civil system, but with the European Union seeking its own share in space control for its own monopolistic groups. European Union policy in space within the framework of the European Union's global strategy clearly has a military character. The existing European Union infrastructure in the context of GALILEO and EGNOS can also be used for military purposes within the framework of the common defence and security policy of the European Union. After all, it is noted in the European Parliament report of January 2020 on the common defence and security policy and calls for the strategic dimension of the space sector for Europe to be strengthened, encouraging an ambitious space policy, which can contribute effectively to strengthening the common defence and security policy and emphasises the need for progress in the development of technologies, both with military and civil applications. The European Parliament welcomes the communication on the establishment of a Directorate-General for Defence and Space Industry in the European Commission, which will have competence to support, coordinate and complement the actions of Member States in the field of European defence, thus contributing to strengthening the European Autonomous Strategy and is coming to reiterate its proposal to finance this programme with an amount of EUR 16.9 million. This is a disguised hypocrisy, the so-called call for the report on the non-militaryisation of the Space, typical proof of the provocative bilingualism of the political expressions of imperialism. This is the one side. The second is the European Union's declared objective of space policy and navigation system to be used in its so-called anti-terrorist policy, such as satellite tracking of monitoring positions and more, as well as in monitoring the external borders of the European Union. The European Union's space infrastructures are coming to complement an already giant grid of repression, monitoring and fence with the strengthening of existing ‘false’ systems and European Union law enforcement training programmes. The European Union's space policy and satellite navigation system strengthens European industry's monopolies and opens new profit fields for both the war industries and for groups active in information and communication technologies, with transport, such as identifying, monitoring positions, data, for example the Big Data, and much more. The aid for monopolies is therefore made by abundant euro-union money. In fact, between 2007 and 2013, the European Union made available the astronomical sum of EUR 5.25 billion. Accordingly, in 2014-2020, it allocated 12 billion euros. The Committee's assessments are, therefore, that for each euro invested in this area the return or otherwise the profits of enterprises in the sector were EUR 3 to EUR 4. Cooperation with Switzerland, and I conclude, Mr President, and its involvement in the European Union's space programmes is intended to broaden the capitalist market for monopolies, research and greater links with the large groups, and also strengthen the militarisation of the European Union, repression, monitoring, the fresco in the name of combating terrorism. This agreement is therefore against the workers and Switzerland and all the Member States of the European Union, because it is in a reactionary, anti-grassroots direction. It is truly a pity that man’s most advanced achievements are used against him. But it is an inevitable feature of the very capitalist system. In the policy that trades and militarises space, we can only voice our unequivocal opposition to this and the JRC is voting against this second convention. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance. They voted 297 Members. In favour of the principle, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 264 Members. On the contrary, 33 Members voted against the principle, i.e. 'Notice'. 'Commerce' voted no one. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the articles, amendments and the entire bill. The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes in order to be included in the official minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u149	Following the conclusion of the vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Application of a Property Distribution Convention - Recommendation of the Property Right of the Hellenic Republic - Saint Cosmas and the regulation of related issues and other provisions’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u150	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u151	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue the debate on the sanctions of the Ministry of Digital Governance. The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Would you allow me a comment on the result? Were we yelling for free last 15 hours here? Two hundred sixty-four "yes" got the bill? Mr Besiropoulos, you have lifted the tons here with SYRIZA and finally voted 'yes'. How are these things done, Mr President? I'm really wondering. If they were to vote and no, they would beat you if they did not vote. That's a little hypocritical. In any case, I would like to go a little bit to the present procedure. Let me say, Mr Georgioda, that with the bill you are bringing these two conventions and we are once again called upon to meet international and European obligations. We have said too many times from this step and from the committees that ratification of agreements with various countries should not be a formal procedure for the Greek Parliament. Every agreement must be considered to see whether and how much it can be implemented in our country. In other words, what gives us an agreement and what we get from this agreement. And especially in the case of Greece, with all the problems that our country is facing and has to face on its own, it is obvious that it does not get us to create any more problems. I begin with the first agreement, which provides for the establishment of the European Communications Office. It is a permanent non-profit organisation with a more consultative role for the European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications Bodies. I would like to ask how an advisory body has so many powers and powers. How is an advisory body to be a depositary of the archives of the European Conference and to be able to disseminate information on it on a case-by-case basis. Who guarantees the credibility of this centre as a custodian? And even more, Minister, this centre enables organisations to accede to information on a stable basis, to participate on an equal footing at consultation meetings and these organisations may also be private enterprises, may be service providers, may be research institutions, may be organisations, may be anything. I want you to make that clear. In addition, it is incompatible as an advisory body with the management and staff of asylum officers in Denmark and with the possibility of immunity in other countries, so in our country too. It is also inconsistent for the Board to have superpowers and to be able to conclude contracts, to be able to appoint and to be amended by this Convention. And even more importantly, the convention is so open that it is a signatory state, like Turkey. And what common interests can our country have with states such as Albania and Skopje? In ours now, for the Greek reality, with the postal services, as long as they exist. All governments, you know, Mr Georgioda, have failed to have a stable postal service network in our country. Yours is not an exception, of course. The Greek Post has not only been profitable for many years - we recently discussed it with the bill you brought here - but they also have huge damage, while the various pretext measures you take do not save the situation. It is really unacceptable to close post offices specifically in the province, which serve so many people, citizens, farmers, who had no other way of contact with the public. This also applies, of course, to electronic services. Our country, we have said so many times, and Greeks and Greek women know it, has the most expensive charges in Europe in the use of digital services in general. Mobile telephony companies have not reduced their prices at all. At the same time, banks continue their very tough policy to charge high commissions to citizens for banking transactions. These are serious problems. The second agreement aims to develop a global navigation satellite system for the common interest and not for military purposes. They are the two systems ‘EGNOS’ and ‘GALILEO’. And because it is precisely the development of such satellite systems on a global scale, we must be even more careful. Now in this case of achilles heel of the whole agreement, and there we are, it is the fact, and if you want it, that the operation of the 'GALILEO' can be transferred to a private person. How is such satellite systems justified in being in the hands of private or private companies? How come? This provision is very dangerous, not only because it abolishes the plan and programming of satellite navigation programmes, but because it poses a direct threat to data security. And we are talking about many billions of euros, having already spent around EUR 5 billion, and the budget of these two systems for the years 2021-2027 is EUR 9 billion. There's a lot of ambiguity about the deal. It does not safely constrain cooperation between states, exchanges of information, even on matters relating to national security. There are many other provisions, such as export control, trade and market development, and security against threats. As far as data protection and cybersecurity are concerned, things are also complicated at European level. As far as the use is concerned, how can we make use of this - and I shall end, Mr President - for the development of satellite navigation systems, we note that in our country they could be exploited primarily - I told the committee as well - in the primary sector. The combination of navigation and positioning tools can be exploited in agriculture, thus developing smart and at the same time sustainable agriculture. Especially now with pandemic there are too serious gaps in the food supply chain and our country must be as self-sufficient and not relying on imports. Precision Georgia, smart agricultural applications will enhance crops both in quantity and quality, at the same time attract new people, young scientists, to return from abroad. Here, of course, it is necessary to support the state with incentives, with subsidies, in order to do all the above. These are the two conventions, Mr President. To close, to say about the very important day that dawns tomorrow for our country, for Greek women and Greeks. You know, our heroes have praised the world's precinct. It is true that Greece inspired the world. Indeed, Greece, the Greeks inspired the world. Gaete had said - and I close with it - that "of all the Greeks dreamed of the dream of life in the most beautiful way". And I'm gonna stay on this. Today we are celebrating the two hundred years of Paligeia, in difficult conditions, with the incarceration of the Greeks, with financial enslavement of our country and with the Turks at the same time claiming half the Aegean. Happy birthday to Greek women, many years in Greek women. High head and flags of the Greeks wave to all the balconies of the houses. Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr. Heta. And now is the reason for the special speaker of Mera25 Mr Angeliki Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are happy to accept the absence of any amendments to this bill, although I do not think that this is a complete reintroduction, since it is almost certain that in the near future we will see the Rules of Procedure of this House being destroyed on the part of the Government. However, today at least the self-evident ones seem to be satisfied. In this respect - and similar draft laws in general - it is clear and understandable that in international conventions on their final text there are no amendments from the legal classes. They shall either be validated as they are or not ratified at all. Here the burden falls at the negotiating stage, until the final agreement is drawn up and the relevant formalities made. Perhaps this is where we need a more intensive effort as a country in order to guarantee more efficiency and our own goals. And this certainly requires closer cooperation and better coordination between the respective government and our permanent Greek delegations in the European institutions. The first bill essentially ratifys the amendment to the Convention establishing the European Communications Office. From the committee meeting up to today we have seen nothing about the technical problem that I mentioned at the committee meeting and which has to do with Mr 3706/2008. In other words, the fate of this law is not clear, since the lack of a relevant provision causes a regulatory gap in its power after the draft law we are discussing today has been passed. I repeat, therefore, that if the existing law is effectively repealed, this for the identity of the legal reason must be clarified explicitly by adding a third article to the bill. Also, at the same time that you are well-intentioned to ratify this convention, we do not see positive initiatives for the landscape of communications and postal services in our country. On communications, our country has a very bad performance on three key points. Providers offer the lowest Internet navigation speeds at too high prices and at high travel costs for the customer. The residents of the country pay very expensively for a very low quality service and, if they wish to cooperate with another provider, they also pay badly for this choice. Apart from low-level services, there is no analogy between quality and charging and, indeed, at a time when the requirements are particularly increased. Let us remember that last March we also heard insinuations that subscribers should not use the Internet so that the television systems would not fall and that is an indication of the system's serious suffocations and deficiencies. As regards postal services, the lockdown period has highlighted bad practices and inadequacies in the sector. I do not need to repeat what thousands of fellow citizens are protesting every day. There are many complaints of huge delays and non-compliance with contractual delivery obligations. I'll stay at one more point. Before the krone we know that both the ELTAs were disintegrated from staff and from service points. Approximately two thousand workers left either voluntarily or through mobility. This moderation of the government clearly shows the intentions of full privatization with the classic ‘reinsurance’ recipe, i.e., in the essence of the downgrading of the vehicle before being sold for a lentil. But here, we have a change of model at European level. In Europe they are now turning to wider and deeper public participation in postal services, and that is not compatible with your own policy. I am making a brief reference to the second draft law, the ratification of the Cooperation Agreement with Switzerland for European satellite navigation programmes. The possibility of a private person taking over the operation of the ‘GALILEO’ system is very problematic. These infrastructures are not meant to be operated by the private sector, ladies and gentlemen. It is a matter of security of our data and very harmful overconcentration of power. It is sound and the remarks that have been made about the participation of representatives and experts representing our country. It does not matter that the relevant expenditure is entered in the Ministry of Digital Policy. After all, this Ministry always bears the costs. In other words, the logic 'I pay, I choose who I will define' does not fit in these cases at all. Here we need the best with a guarantee of openness and not arbitrary choice on the part of the Minister. The AACC also has the know-how and institutional competence to undertake such an open process of crisis of the candidates. I will repeat in our relations with Switzerland the need to intensify efforts in other fields. We all know how badly we are from economic crime and know the role of Swiss banks in these cases and the Swiss state's reluctance to cooperate quickly and effectively in investigations. Because, at least in your election programme, you have mentioned the fight against corruption and the strengthening of transparency and because you have not dealt with it at all as a government so far, we are immediately waiting for many initiatives, including a new transnational agreement with Switzerland. In closing, I wish many years in our country, many years in Greek and Greek. In a spirit of harmony and not divisively overcoming this health and economic crisis which has been afflicting the Greek and Greeks for so many years. And, of course, we must soon be freed not only from this crisis, but above all from all political choices which unfortunately serve years of arrogant and oligarchic interests, they do not serve our national interests, but they also undermine the well-being of our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mrs Adamopoulou. Mr Kouvela, you are the rapporteur of the New Democracy, do not blame you, I give you the floor to say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President. As rapporteur of the New Democracy, I would like to say that the parliamentary majority is voting in favour of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance for the ratification of the two international conventions and in view of tomorrow's double great celebration, our national and Orthodoxy, I would like to wish Greece, Greeks and Greeks much for years. I am sure that in our hearts and minds tomorrow's two-year anniversary of the Greek Revolution will be wholehearted and be well, so that we will soon celebrate as we should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, too. I don't know if a parliamentary representative wants to take the floor to fill in something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u159	You are entitled to this, but it is a special day, and because of the holiday that should normally be - there have been half-years - but also because many colleagues, as I have been told before, intend to travel with the planes so that you are in time. Mr. Villard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be as fast as I can.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u161	Alas, it's your right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. At the present time, however, with Greece in the economic possession of lenders, but without losing our optimism, we would have preferred to wish many years for the two hundred years from the liberation of our country by the saying of Calvos: "Freedom will enjoy and bold". Happy birthday to all Greek women and Greeks, in the belief that we will be able to do it again. After all, we owe it to our ancestors and our children, in all the next generations, to inherit them a country better than the one we inherited. It's our obligation. All it takes is love for our country. Now, in the first convention on the agreement between the European Union and Switzerland, we will say that satellite navigation systems are very important for many trade applications mentioned by the previous speakers. Without these there are risks to state security and economic activity, and they are a modern way of control, such as 'SWIFT' for banking transactions, so it goes without saying that we should be seriously concerned. These systems were originally developed by the United States with the so-called 'GPS' first for military use in the 1970s and followed by the trade in the 1980s. The European GALILEO system has started to develop since 2005 with the first satellite launches, and today it has been completed with over twenty-four satellites and at a cost of about EUR 10 billion. ‘EGNOS’ is a complementary ground-based system of ‘GALILEO’. ‘GALILEO’ is more precise than ‘GPS’ for general applications, one measure compared to three. This convention mentions the possibility of selling to a private company, in Article 2, precisely what concerns us. Similar systems have developed Russia, Global Navigation Satellite System, as well as China, while designing India and Japan, although to some extent complementary to others. Continuing this Convention on the Connection of Switzerland to ‘GALILEO’ does not seem to have any special interest, noting that the country operates as the headquarters of many shipping companies that can use ‘GALILEO’. Switzerland will contribute to the costs of the system although it does not clearly specify the amount, while the 80 million it paid from 2008 to 2013 account for only 1% of the total cost of 10 billion. It is also not mentioned whether it will reduce the burden on Greece and the other countries nor any cost of the contract from the General Accounting Office of the State. It is of great interest to us that the applications offered by the 'GALILEO' in the agricultural sector, as the rapporteur has said. As far as precise agriculture is concerned, according to a study which we will be tabling later in the Minutes, for example, on automatic driving and on remote work control, such as grubbing up, harvesting and spraying with possibilities of differentiating routes, seeds, herbicides, etc., depending on the conditions, with programming, as well as with tabling. As far as livestock is concerned, it is possible to monitor the location of herds, animal data and an electronic fence with a collar transmitting a warning stimulus, although it has not yet been implemented in the European Union because of costs, but in other countries such as Uruguay, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. This substantiates that the rural economy is evolving into a high-tech industry with the increasing employment of scientists instead of unskilled workers. It is therefore a great opportunity for Greece both in terms of production and employment. Other applications that have an interest in us are in defence, such as navigation of drones via satellites, which Turkey also applies, and we will also testify because it is of interest. European drones, euro drone will use 'GALILEO', while Turkey is taking part in 'GALILEO', which we will need to take very seriously. Finally, worrying side effects are personal data, where the government makes huge mistakes, as we have seen with the PALANTIR Convention and now with CISCO. The data collected with ‘GALILEO’ shall be managed by the Directive of the European Union 2018/1725 concerning the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the institutions and bodies, as well as by Union bodies and the free movement of such data. We do not know whether it has been implemented in Greece, but for the previous law, Law 2464/2019, which is based on a relevant directive of the European Union, on 679/2016, we have serious reservations. We are mainly concerned about the possible processing of personal data under special circumstances, such as Article 24 of Law 2464/2019, to prevent serious harm to the rights of another person who is sounding extremely general. We should be concerned about who has access to this information with various excuses, such as our supposed guard against pandemic or alleged threats to democracy and so on. The second Convention on the establishment of the European Communications Office combines the operational responsibilities of the European Radiocommunications Office and the European Telecommunications Office. Therefore, the contract does not seem to change much, and since it is a merger of the existing offices there is no cost in the General Accounting Office of the State. This is a meaningless office, judging by the outcome, since Greece has the highest telecommunications costs, as all colleagues have rightly said, and the investigation of the Competition Committee has not yet developed. A similar scandalous situation exists in ELTAs even by monitoring the troika. Finally, to what benefit, really, our participation in another European Commission, how much more so since Turkey is involved, as is usually selective where it is concerned, although to a lesser extent by Greece? Apparently nothing at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. The Foreign Minister now has the floor, Mr Georgiotis, for his own position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. I did not really expect that two sanctions for international conventions, namely, essentially two fulfilments of the country's obligations, which arise on the basis of the Greek people's expressed decision in its overwhelming majority to participate in the European family, could be the subject of an inferiority - I would like to say - of confrontation, which in many respects - I will be allowed to say - was also out of the question. I do not want this day to create tension in this House, but I have two comments to make. I shall begin with an observation to the rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece. A pleasant surprise or finding was that the first contract your party had voted for it in 2008. It was really a very pleasant surprise to me, as the feasibility of operating this office is really for the benefit of our country as a whole. There is now an amendment, which basically does not establish anything from the outset, that lays down no new rules, but that is typically the merger of the European Radiocommunications Office and the European Telecommunications Office in the European Communications Office, without any charge for our country, as the report of the General Accounting Office says. I see a refusal of consensus, and in the original draft, which had all the conditions, there was consensus. I also see an effort from other political parties to transfer the controversy to the operation of the Greek Posts. I'm sorry, but we know very well what the Greek Posts were received twenty months ago, beyond the economic situation, the very difficult one. We know very well that the Hellenic Post now belongs to the Supreme Court. This action has a specific responsibility, a specific political signature. From previous government choices, from mistakes from the previous government, it belongs to the Supreme Government, but that's not all. I think we all know of the cases that have taken the courthouse, where Greek Posts with about 7 million per month passively were sometimes forced - to pay fees - to retain money allocated for PPC accounts! What do we do now? We are making a very important effort to ensure that they are modernised so that they can become genuinely competitive in a market with room for manoeuvre. We have managed and reduced the passiveness of about half the month before the volunteer - it is worth noting this - and we are now trying with a volunteer who has been very successful - because we have tried to safeguard the interests of the workers - to make those moves that are necessary so that they really become competitive. Because one must not stay insurmountable and indifferent when the Greek Post Office costs 7 million a month to the Greek people and without having that quality service that suits him. The Hellenic Post will continue, on the basis of the restructuring plan, to offer their services throughout Greece, as they must, as they began. It is the oldest company of the Greek state. The added value from time-to-day presence and matching with the Greek region in particular must, in fact, remain and remain. We also have reports - and I address the KINAL rapporteur - on the functioning of the Ministry of Digital Governance, which, as you said, scores money. To ask any timely questions you want to sit down and discuss whatever you want for whatever issue you want, but, indeed, there was no talk from a rapporteur from any party for this ministry, who is making an effort - a national effort - I want to believe that he will remain - for the country's digital transformation? That 2020 became ninety-four million electronic transactions, that ninety-four million digital services were provided to Greek citizens, that the need for the natural presence of Greek citizens in public guises was avoided, that we have done so impeccably many applications, which have improved the daily life of the citizen and, at a pandemic, that is not really protecting him? There is a vaccination system based on platforms that we have created. At the moment the ultra-aged Greeks, the vulnerable groups of the Greek population, can really close their appointments without any suffering and can then be vaccinated by impeccable health service. We do not need to hear any good words from you about the functioning of the Department of Digital Governance. This has been recorded and recorded every day and more strongly in the conscience of the Greek people, but we will not allow anyone to attempt to tarnish this work. This is a glorious field, for anyone who wishes to put forward any timely question to have the opportunity of an oral debate. Because I do not want to have any answer, because you said that you asked about the Space Agency, I will see all the facts and I will present them to you, Mr Colleague. Furthermore, only one was mentioned that there was a commitment on my part as a representative of the government that today will only be a clear debate on these two conventions without any amendment and that was, indeed, fulfilled on our part. It is a self-evident obligation, I have to say, but nonetheless some of the rapporteurs, who have not done so positively since the start of the debate, have not done so. They wanted to tell their opposition. Their right. We have decided to be in the European family. The European family decides contracts which improve the level of communications, the level of postal services with all this knowledge offered, with all the partnership and cooperation that exists. We are therefore called upon to ratify the conventions today. One is simply amending and the other is ratification of the agreement between the European Union and Switzerland. I hear objections in relation to articles which, however, anyone who knows from the law governing international conventions, are annulled in the way it seeks to record a dispute. It does not mean that, without any suffering, without any prior decision by the collective bodies, any service can be provided by a private person. The fact that it is referred to as a possibility in an article does not mean that this can be done without the 'filter' of the previous evaluation and decision of the relevant bodies. I think, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that the opposition which has been attempted today has overshadowed many items. He could find another day. A margin of discussion and exchange of views about the postal services you want. We should do it here. We need to have any debate here about the level of digital service provision in the country. We can have any conversation you want for the projects. Let's get out of here. Today we had something else to talk about. This has to do with self-evident obligations of the country based on its membership of the European family, and I think that it should only be a positive attitude to all of you, unless someone has a negative attitude to our presence, to our integration, to our participation in the European family. I'd like to close up with a word about the very important day tomorrow. We'll live the two hundred years from the Greek Revolution. One is the element that will have to accompany all Greeks and all Greek women completely. It is this element of national self-confidence, which we can really not only invoke at difficult times, but constantly. We have shown that we can both fight and prosper when we are truly united, when this confidence translates it into action, in ingeniousness, in energy, and when we have no dead ends. Happy birthday to all Greek women, many years to all Greeks! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Digital Governance is adjourned and their vote will take place, as has been said from the outset, separately. We move first to the vote on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: ‘Conclusion of the Convention establishing the European Communications Office (ECO) [Hamburg, 23 June 1993], as amended in Copenhagen on 9 April 2002 and Copenhagen on 23 November 2011’. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u167	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u168	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: ‘Constitution of the Convention establishing the European Communications Office (ECO) [Hamburg, 23 June 1993], as amended in Copenhagen on 9 April 2002 and Copenhagen on 23 November 2011’, was accepted by a majority of the members of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: 'Following the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, on the European Plans for Flight Plans'. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u171	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u172	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: ‘Following the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, on the European Navigation Spectrums Programmes’, was accepted by a majority of the uniform in principle, Articles and all of it and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u174	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-24-S1-commons.u175	With the consent of the House, the sitting is closed at 15.53 p.m. I, too, wish to all and all, to all Greeks and Greek women, many years and well, in health!
