ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The debate will take place at number 4/4/11-2021 on the top of the question by the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas and the MPs of the party of Mr. Alexandras Papagiga, Ioannis Giokas, Ioannis Deli, Lianas Kanellis, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulou, Christos Katsotis, Maria Konnakas, George Lambroulis, Diamonds Manolakos, George Marinos, Nikolaos Papastassis, Athanasios Pafilis, Leonidas Stolidis and Emmanouil Synthakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “The painful consequences of government policy on health”. He has the floor for the first questioning Member of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis for ten minutes. Mr President, whenever you think you're going to talk, you can tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u2	Immediately after.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. With our timely health question, on the one hand, we seek to re-establish the debate on the conditions required to protect the health of the people, on the other hand, to highlight the conditions for the creation of a health system which corresponds to the current possibilities and needs of our people, on the basis of the free guarantee of what is required by the state. The outbreak of coronary cases in the country, the declining daily records on imports of patients and intangibles dramatically destroy the New Democracy Government’s account that the state took all the necessary measures. In the light of this evolving situation, we could only stand up with full respect for the overindulgence of doctors, nurses and all the health workers who fight this fight with self-depression, self-sacrifice, under unequal conditions, exhausted and impoverished, due to intensification, constant effort to treat all patients without exception in the regular emergency situations, in hospitals, in intensive care units, in primary health care. We are fully respected, demanding that all necessary measures be taken to protect public health more effectively, limit transmission, protect vulnerable groups in particular, and treat patients. The next time, as everything shows, it is critical and the forecasts of nightmares, unless measures are taken to shield the health and life of the people, such as those demanded by health care, unions, bodies, unless the closed hospitals are fully open and fully managed, if the private health sector is not unconditionally imposed. The fact that not all the necessary measures are taken in health, but also measures to protect the workplaces, schools and universities, in the means of transport and elsewhere, is the result of the government's criminal policy, which prioritises the anti-Finland budgetary targets and capitalist profit, sacrificing the needs of the people on the altar of the capitalist economy, indicating that the people's needs in capitalism are treated by the state and capital, which it serves, as a cost that should be reduced on the other hand, as a commodity and an opportunity for business profits. And it is precisely in the most tragic way that the consequences of health-related policy, as an individual responsibility, are revealed as an area of investment and profitability for groups, but also as a cost that its funding by the state must be reduced to liberate a financial space for development measures, namely tax exemptions and subsidies, in order to stimulate entrepreneurship and competitiveness, i.e. the profitability of business groups. At the same time, it turns out that the treatment of health as a merchandise and public health units as a contributor imposes minimum staff, with contractors, with movements from hospital to a hospital and from city to city. And the government comes in and presents exactly this policy that has shaped this lousy and dangerous health system over time, which left the people unprotected not only in the pandemic but in almost all its other needs, in prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, as a solution. How modern do you think in 2021 that we do not have anesthesiologists, other specialities to serve basic and non-intensive treatment units which are far less than the number specified by the needs, and much more so by international standards? And in what primary health care do you refer to when all those who have ruled it have broken up? In more organised multidisciplinary departments, are those hospitalized in intensive care units monitored and how are they free of charge rehabilitation in special centres? You know, apparently, that according to figures from 2019 they have never done mammography or have to do more than three years 48.5% of women and 35% of the corresponding PPA tests. Not to talk about examinations relating to pre-treatment cancer, although the government has declared initiatives for the free provision of preventive tests at the same time as there is insufficient equipment and personnel to deal with accredited cancers. For what dental care to talk, when with 2017 figures the burden of the people's family reached 99.7%, while public spending, state and insurance funds, was at 0.27%, proving that a basic need for adults and children is considered luxury and unnecessary costs? Featured proof for both the government and the previous governments of what value you give in areas critical to the terms of life and health protection of the people are the items of 2019 that, throughout the country, there were eight doctors with the specialty of public health, six health practitioners and a hundred and fifty-seven qualified working doctors. As also, they cannot be justified as objective events that were gigantic at the pandemic, such as postponement of children's vaccinations by 70%. Even the recruitment of permanent staff, which every so announced, will be a drop in the ocean of huge public health shortages, when you know very well that at least six and a half thousand permanent doctors, twenty-two thousand permanent nurses, corresponding ambulances, equipment and saying. The government in the face of this tragic and dangerous health situation for the people, comes in a challenging way in order to cover up its responsibilities for the management of the pandemic and moves them to the inconvenienceless, while at the same time exploiting vaccination from a weapon against the pandemic to a more profound invasion of individuals, since the sanitary who have been suspended will be replaced by individuals, with blockages or contractors, particularly in security and cleanlinesing services, following the SYRIZA Government's path through the implementation of the anti-corruption measure of the late individual contracts of employment. At the same time, you are making use of pandemic as a golden opportunity to run all the reactionary anti-grassroots restructuring for the so-called new RSH, which every one of them is flipping out of sides of the government and which is a follow-up to the old in order to reduce state and insurance costs and health services, that is to say, measures which have now made up the nightmare of the spread of pandemic and the collapse of the traded health systems, both in our country and in the other capitalist states. Developments with the virus and pandemic objectively put the real problem at the heart of the debate, that the policy of supporting capitalist profits is incompatible with the protection of the health, life of our people and is not meeting people's needs anywhere. This is the obstacle that the people will have to get out of the way and on this road there is the real way out for the people. The pandemic has shown that our people will be saved alone by claiming all the measures to protect their health. Today, it is more mature than ever to strengthen the coexistence with the JRC and the struggle of the people for a state-of-the-art health system, universal welfare, modern and absolutely free of charge, a health system, welfare without any business that its services will in practice constitute a guaranteed social asset and not a price-paid commodity, as they are today, for the benefit of the people in the prevention, treatment, restoration of all available possibilities of science, technology, the experienced health personnel for the development of a state-owned research, production, import and free of charge of medicines and vaccines, for the free of charge of the production of medical devices, health materials, etc. In this direction, the JRC is struggling to ensure free, complete and uninterrupted health care and hospitals for all, the full and adequate funding of public hospitals and health care centres, as well as other units, RDPs, from the State budget by taxing capital by 45%, mass recruitment of permanent staff full-time and exclusive employment of all branches and specialties in public hospitals, health centres and other units of RDPs, permanentisation of all subsidiary doctors and nurses, blocs, contractors and workers of private hospitals, repealing individual labour contracts and all forms of flexible working facilities in public hospitals, repealing the measure to increase public health care facilities and provide for, essentially measures to inform health care services to the need for vaccination, exploit the incomplete low-risk services of the virus with frequent and repeated free-treaty tests, repealing the measures for the development of public-private hospitals, i.e.g.g.g. development of public health-priced hospitals. Furthermore, all health work for which patients are forced to go to the private sector to compensate 100% by financing the state budget. There should be full and free provision of work to prevent, treat and restore oral health with also funding from the state budget. Incorporate all medical, diagnostic, laboratory, preventive tests, all medicines and vaccines into the full compensation scheme by the State or through the insurance funds by financing them from the State budget. To remove the cap of medical visits per month in patients and doctors. To be free of charge for special medicines and medicines for the diseases accompanying them, food supplements, sanitary and consumable material, etc. through public hospitals, health centres and units of EEAS. To create public hostels for free hospitality, housing and food and free movement of patients who are hospitalized and treated outside their home place. To provide full services for prevention, treatment and rehabilitation to immigrants exclusively from public health establishments. The above - and I am closing with that, Mr President - is essential and realistic for patients and health, for all workers and are a proposal for a fight and a claim. Because pandemic can, although expected, be a natural phenomenon, but the situation in health is a natural result of anti-grassroots policy which must be called into question as a precondition for the secondment of solutions now. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Today's question of our party is more than timely, since pandemic is galloping and the people are exposed and unprotected once again. They approach one million cases in Greece, reach eighteen thousand, the dead and the intangible at direct risk are about six hundred fifty. Your proclamation, an order for collective, individual responsibility, is another commemorative dose to mockery, to cover the government's responsibilities for dealing with pandemic, because you know that over time along with the defence of the organism that runs out after the second dose of the vaccine is exhausted and the patience of our people. You continue the same trophy, that we have an unmistakable pandemic, what if it has been shown that the vaccine, although it is valuable, alone, is not enough, let alone, when the vaccination programme is inadequate if it is not combined with decisive reinforcement of the public health system, with protection measures in workplaces, in public transport, in schools and in schools. What if even in countries with high rates of vaccination, pandemic indicators are highest, what if scientists, epidemiologists warn that vaccinations are not enough for collective protection and that measures are needed to prevent spreading, the Minister of Development is coming out and says that since 75% of the vaccinated are not in danger of dying there is no need for measures to protect public health. It is, of course, partly true that we have an international pandemic of invasive peoples, since 94% of the peoples of the poorest countries who experience criminally the conversion of the vaccine into goods used to promote competition from capitalist states and companies are invaded. That is why, together with the need to take all necessary measures to protect the pandemic, in particular the support of the public health system, the demand is made even more timely to call for every patent to be removed in vaccines and medicines, which you dare not spit out. You declared war on the make news that jeopardizes public health, but you champions are the dispersal of false news. A few days ago, for the third time you reduce surgery by 80% with devastating consequences for the rest of morbidity and mortality, to withstand the pressure, to save ICU beds and personnel to treat patients with coronary. After the general outcry, you tried to pick up the artisan after saying that you didn't stop an oncology surgery. You're saying that now that it's November. In October, the Deputy Minister for Health at the European and Social Affairs Committees said otherwise. He said it's true that the surgery stopped and the cancer patients stayed behind. And you have the courage to say that it is a luxury for our country to develop the necessary number of IF beds because after the pandemic it will be superfluous. This was also claimed by the current Minister of Development when he closed in 2013 the Hospital of Limomonton, which kept SYRIZA closed, that it is unnecessary because infectious diseases have been eliminated. You claim that you more than doubled the MF beds and that they all meet the necessary specifications and have been staffed with the qualified staff required. Do you know that there are units in which a nurse takes care of a patient and his back rests in the bed of the patient next door or has no room to place the necessary, so that they end up on the bed? Do you know that fourteen square meters are normally provided for each IF bed? How can we talk about the control of infections in the ICUs and the reduction of mortality in such conditions when the minimal proportion of nursing and medical staff per bed of ICUs is not observed? At the same time you tell us that the country does not have the necessary number of qualified medical and nursing personnel to staff the ICUs. He changed the trophy, 'cause until a few years ago you were talking about over-the-patient doctors. Who's responsible? It is also a transcript of how value they have for you and the previous governments so crucial areas for protecting the health and life of the people. If reality doesn't suit you, so much worse for reality. You have reached the point to cover up your responsibilities for the criminal management of the pandemic, to say that for increased COVID mortality, it is the way to record deaths, because if you followed the UK death logging system, mortality would appear to be reduced by 20%. All these contradictory positions and many others that do not take time to say them because we will dawn, the reversal of reality with your head down is that they sow confusion, they undermine the unexistent practical vaccination operation, they feed on their arguments all kinds of pandemic negligents, the anti-invaders. You underestimate our intelligence. The measures for banning entry to museums, theatres, gyms, catering areas are impatient for the working people's family and are impatient because the vast majority go neither every day theatre nor to the tavern nor to the restaurants for food. How, where would a new couple go, like a couple of elderly retired people? How would he pay? What to start with a couple of retired people from the Souli settlement, for example, of Patras where I was the other day when their last PPC account comes 405 euros? What current do two people consume on their own? Nothing. Angered man found me, and he asked me with indignation, with pain of soul, to present it to you here today in the House. So I, too, put it in the Minutes called 'Nicolakopoulos Panagiotis of Constantine' and the Minister responsible for dealing with this matter. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Let these people respond, because the new wave of precision in electricity, fuel price rises, the basic kinds of people's consumption along with the cut-off wages and pensions, as well as the tax burden, have depleted the people's income. But it goes to work where employers implement over-transmission protocols and not prevent virus spreads, as in Evia. You are counting on buses and subways, which are lately discovering that the virus is transmitted, but instead of condensing the routes, you are applying circular hours. Why? You couldn't - he says - give birth to buses in nine months. You say that regular expenditure for the Ministry of Health amounts to 4.52 billion and is increased by 250 million euros compared to 2021. You are not saying, however, that in 2021, in the middle of the pandemic, expenditure was reduced by EUR 572 million compared to 2020. In other words, the truth that you are not telling it is that 2022 provides for a reduction of 250 million in relation to the expenditure of 2020. And you're presenting this as an increase. Although we will discuss the budget in detail, the Greek people must know, but from now on that at the time a hundred people are lost a day, for 2022 the state is reducing the funding of hospitals by EUR 139 million, by 52% the expenditure on unpaid primary health care and by EUR 245 million health benefits. What reinforcement to an inspiring potential of the public health system are you talking about? On the prospect of the four thousand nine hundred permanent recruitments that will simply change the employment relationship of the subsidiary who is already serving? Is it lying or is it true that you are asking doctors of unrelated qualifications, even by skilled people, to conduct rapid training, gain skills, and get intensive baptists, endangering the health of severely ill patients? As much as you're trying to make the situation look good, you're multiplely exposed to the people, you have heavy responsibilities. At a time when dozens of tempered daily are waiting for a IF bed, while public hospitals are falling apart, instead of demanding unconditionally and without any compensation for private health groups, you are haggling with their owners, who have not stopped speculating during the pandemic period, of course, taking advantage of the tragic deficiencies of the public system, because you see the trade in human suffering no breaks. You took advantage of the pandemic in order to inspire the idea that the main factor in guaranteeing health is individual responsibility. You are enlisting in this direction rabbits, various media parrots who are asking the uninvasives to pay their hospitals. It is not just extreme voices calling for penalties and punishment for those who do not comply. It's not a new issue or an original one, of course. In the United States employers ask uninvasive workers for an additional EUR 200 per month of premiums if they want their insurance to apply. Soon if someone doesn't stop you, you're gonna ask for money from the cancer patients because they were smoking from the multi-trailers because they weren't wearing a helmet. So build the step of a jungle society. These elements, of course, are part of the policy of all the capitalist states that turns an issue primarily socially good, such as health, only in an individual case, into individual responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's management of the pandemic went bankrupt. Above all, however, the policy of privatisation and health trade, which all governments and all parties have served over time independently of individual civil management recipes, has failed. That is why Qualified Opposition proposes a Secretary of State for Public Health, which is why he asks you to make room to manage that barbarity. It's a further demonstration of your strategy to engage in key issues. It is a strategy for all governments to reduce non-wage costs, the drastic cut in expenditure on prevention, treatment, rehabilitation of the health of workers and their families. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. In this period public expenditure increased by 10.4%. However, this increase came from the increase in the payments of the insurance funds, i.e. from workers' own pockets, namely 9.4%, while the State contribution was limited to 1%. Similarly, the state expenditure on hospitals decreased by 4.3%, while payments from the insurance funds increased by 15.7%. At the same time, private payments were reduced by only 0.63%, i.e. the bleeding of the populace layers they paid out of their health pockets of EUR 5.73 billion. Between 2012 and 2019, public pharmaceutical expenditure decreased by 50%, but patients' participation only in indemnity medicines increased by 52.8%. In other words, our people were charged to save warm state money to support large business groups. The reduction of wages, the intensity of the farm, the cheaper labour force, that is, it is a precondition to ensure, you see, the competitiveness and the high profitability of capital. This is the main reason why the outcome of all the different governments' plans leads from bad to worse the lives and health of the people. Because capital is ruthless in terms of the health and life of a worker everywhere, where society does not have to count it. "The capital has so many serious reasons to deny the sufferings of the people, it is determined so little in its practical move from the unbridled disincline of the population as well as the potential fall of the earth on the sun." With these words Carl Marx described the situation. That is why there cannot be a system of health covering all the people's needs in modern services of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. Group profits are incompatible, you see, with the protection of the life and health of the people. This is a health system full of irrationality, contradictions and contradictions, which, as long as the potential of science, technology, the numerous health personnel are expanded, and the difficulty of the people to make use of these. At the same time as innovative therapies, personalized drugs, robotic surgery, which demonstrate the enormous potential - but only for those who can pay - for many, is considered the achievement of closing an appointment for a simple medical examination. The period of pandemic with the tragic results for the people has highlighted in a deafening way the hard materials with which this health system has been built for years, which has become a leaf and feather and has left the people unprotected. Thousands of patients were excluded, others from necessary tests, other than surgery, to withstand the pressure of patients with CIVID. This is a rule for all capitalist countries. Example: In the United States of America, in the metropolitan city of capitalism, over a month there has been a decrease in new diagnosis of cancer by 46.4% for the six most frequent malignancies. Only in the first phase of the pandemic is it estimated that more than two and a half million surgery for cancer worldwide was postponed as a consequence of the needs for the patient's CIVID hospitalisation and the lack of CIVID beds, while the presence of patients at advanced stages of cancer was observed, resulting in the inability of their radical surgery. We recall that at that time American billionaires, astronomicists, took space recreation travel and at the same time their compatriots used garbage bags and handkerchiefs instead of protective uniforms and masks. The situation will deteriorate even further, since you have as a solution the policy and measures which have shaped this dreadful and dangerous health system for the people. It's not that you're just distorting reality, you have the nerve to brag for your achievements, as if it were for the benefit of the people. Just a few days ago, your Minister, Mr. Georgiadis, declared unresponsively on a television channel that hospitals were closed in his day, and indeed, by nailing SYRIZA's gentlemen, he said that because he did well, they did not open up the next ones. He also stated that the communism in Greece does not, in order to ask for a private retirement, recruitment of staff and the opening of hospitals that closed down. Do you understand what your Minister, gentlemen of the Government, Mr. New Democracy, said? In order not to be dead, to open hospitals, there must be communism, he said in the final analysis. You'll know something, of course, to say it. The restructuring you are promoting in the implementation of the project for the new ERR that you have already implemented will, as has already been announced, bring about a new cycle of abolitions and mergers of hospitals and of clinics, exacerbating the already burdensome situation. You will promote PPPs to surround the private sector more. EEAY as a private insurance company will work for even greater bleeding of the insured. It will promote the strengthening of the business function of hospitals with new overturns in industrial relations, even greater bleeding of patients, wide variation between health establishments. Workers have nothing good to expect from the health policy you set the cost of measures, just for the profitability and competitiveness of capital. Health developments confirm that two development paths have been set before the people, the road to satisfying social needs or the current healthist one as a commodity. Since the outcome of this confrontation, from what way the people will decide to walk eventually, the outcome of the struggle will also be judged, whether a health system is equivalent to the achievements of science, technology, which will serve modern social needs. It is vitally important that, at the same time as the force of the fight for the armament of the public system with permanent recruitment, for extraordinary funding for health and for the appointment of private structures, our people correspond to the modern needs, to strengthen popular conflict, struggle, to shape social and political conditions for another path of development, production, the economy, working people's power, at the heart of which will be to satisfy the expanded people's needs to prevent, cure and restore health, with - as far as possible - self-sufficiency in the production of everything required in medical machinery, medicines, vaccines, health material, making use of the possibility of everything necessary to ensure them, in order to benefit all available opportunities and others that can be developed, science, technology, qualified health personnel. Only under these conditions can health be a guaranteed, state-guaranteed, universal and free folk right within a single, modern, exclusively state free state health system generally developed through scientific centralised planning fully and adequately financed by the state budget by abolishing all business activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. The next speaker is Mr Yiannis Delis. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to keep up with our time. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the threat, it seems, a spectrum of African mutagenication and after two years of dangerous and murderous pandemic, one would expect the government, and logically, to give serious support to the public health system in our country so that it can meet the urgent people' s health needs. One would also expect multi-formal and substantial measures to protect the people, such as avoiding crowdage in public transport, in large workplaces and in schools. It would also be expected - and logically - that epidemiological surveillance has been intensified to vaccinated and unvaccinated with frequent and free testing. But none of this happened. No effective prevention and protection measures are taken, no measures to reduce dispersal are being taken, and not even two years in the pandemic. And because that 'caramella' of individual responsibility has been melted in the mouth of the government and its 'false', it has recently been fortified behind the vaccine, which is so necessary and necessary, but not so capable in itself of dealing with the killing waves of such a pandemic. However, for the vaccine instead of the government drawing up a scientific information programme with the responsibility of the state and personalised, personalised where necessary, what is it doing? It is left to oral recommendations and to television proclamations. But that was all! At the same time as doing all this, the government does not hesitate to exploit pandemic to deepen and increase business activity in public, otherwise, health. Now, these days, the bill that the government has brought to Parliament is being discussed and which extends the business of large supply companies to public hospitals, while at the same time setting up the so-called 'new RS', which intends to abolish a few more hospitals and clinics, to further promote the business operation of the remaining hospitals, to create new changes in the working relationships between doctors and nurses and, ultimately, to bear an even greater burden on patients, whether directly or indirectly, through their insurance funds. The pandemic, which is a danger to the people, therefore, is an opportunity for the government to move its own plans and plans forward with the European Union. And all this when? When the public health system is at a worse time, yes to a worse situation than it was at the beginning of the pandemic, as well as the suspensions of six thousand health workers, and the minimum recruitments, which have barely been carried out, also cover these pensions. And this, when a new buzz is slowly created, parallel pandemic that is no other than the rest of serious morbidity that is growing, due to the conversion of hospitals almost exclusively to COVID. But what is the cause for all this? But the fact that the health of people in capitalism is treated as well, like all, as a merchandise. Proof of this is why the successive laws of all governments that have turned health into an extremely expensive commodity to disguise insurance funds and people's incomes at the time of great need. And this commercialization of human pain is filled with the chests of health dealers. And it is this commercialisation by which governments, all governments, are trying to cover their own responsibility to finance and care solely for them, as is required by the health of the people, so that they can in every way fund the reasonable business groups. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, can I take my dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u9	Yes, Mr. Delis, you can continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. And that well-known provocative argument that there are no "leaf trees" means that you don't give a penny of cracklers out of billions of taxes paid by the people for health, 50 billion is up there, since you're destined for the "kids" of capitalist development. Only the last two governments, the New Democracy and the SYRIZA, in recent years, have cut a total of 1.5 billion from the state grant of the ESS, which the people of the country pay too much in the pandemic with hundreds of victims. In the hospitals of Thessaloniki, let’s say, as in all of the country’s high pressure, tragic deficiencies are recorded in all structures. The gaps in both specialists and qualified doctors are several hundred, while the gaps in nursing staff are measured in thousands of people in the city. In fact, in order to save staff for the hospitals in northern Greece, the government goes and closes or shrinks regional health services and centres, leaving thousands of helpless and elderly people in the villages at the mercy of their sickness. We saw it with our own eyes, Minister, in Paradesti, Orestia. Leave those minority villages looking for a doctor, literally looking for a doctor, for days even for a death certificate. It's disgraceful! Agglomeration is a permanent phenomenon even in structures. Do you know what kind of structures? At the "Theatrical" Anticancer Hospital, where every day there are up to five hundred people in a space of fifty square meters today, these hours! If we are not talking about the Sindos industrial region, then we will see not only that there are no health and safety measures in the workplace, but that there is a totalitarianness. We will also see that the Health Center in Sindo is not working either. And if we talk about Thessaloniki, the western Thessaloniki of half a million, we will see that this area is covered by a Health Center in Eusmos, a health centre of seventy workers to cover half a million people! And yet, "Panagia" and "Lomamonton" in Thessaloniki until 2013 were working. It is two of the hospitals that New Democracy closed in 2013 and which SYRIZA certainly kept. Only those two hospitals had three hundred beds. But what am I saying? The beds are available elsewhere. Only, you know, those five large private polyclimates of Thessaloniki have aggregated more than 100 beds of intensive care units and a thousand single double beds of hospitalization. The state, your government, did not order them, even when the sanitaries are now forced to invade patients in the hallways. These hundred and twenty beds of the "Inter-Balkan", "EUROMEDICA" - to say things by their name - and others, you refused, Mr Minister, to dictate them, even when the mortars did a tail outside the AHEPA. And you're still denying it now. All you know is how to do the bullies to some individual local doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u11	Finish, Mr. Delis, please. You've exhausted your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u12	I shall conclude, Mr President. The conclusion, Mr President, is that the issue of health is also at the hands of the people themselves, of course, far from the fraudulent traffic and the fatalism you are cultivating. The organised, struggling and determined people can and must, in their struggle, secure this social need. And he will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Manolis Syntakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take my dentistry, too. So far the criminal management of the pandemic by the government with dozens of dead and thousands of diseased people every day, its refusal not to shield the public health system, not to demand private clinics, the more than six thousand health suspensions and the convenient for the same theory of individual responsibility, leaves no margin of misinterpretation for where he wants to go. It's a first taste of the new branded RU, which it advertises. It is taking the golden opportunity to launch the gradual dismantling of the funding of state health units from the state budget - this, moreover, showed the 2021 budget, this is what the news of 2022 shows - the strengthening of their operation on the basis of private economic criteria and self-financing, the scandalous strengthening of business activity and the limitation of the services provided free of charge by the State to the unemployed and uninsured at the level of the minimum basic package, equal to the survival not financed by the state budget, but by the EEAS and the insurance funds. The responsibility, of course, will be transferred to volunteering, non-governmental organisations and social doctorates. The strengthening of the development prospects of the health sector, as it says, which was launched by the previous SYRIZA government and is continuing today with the New Democracy, and indeed under conditions of pandemic, is translated into a subdelegation of health units, endangering the lives of patients and the elimination of health care. Indicative is the recent decision of the 7th YPE in mid-October to move three anaesthetics from Chania Hospital and four anesthetics from Heraklion University Hospital to Rethymno Hospital to carry out newspapers. It is the chronic lack of nursing personnel, which prevents the reinstatement of the anesthetic division from restraining vertically the waiting time for surgery. Five thousand four hundred patients are on the waiting list at PANGNE, while six of the seven surgical rooms of general anaesthesia are in operation. In "Venizelio" there are over two thousand seven hundred surgery, at the Hospital of Chania over two thousand, in Rethymnon over a thousand percent, in Agios Nikolaos over three hundred, in Ierapetra, more than a hundred, in Sitia over thirty. Overall, more than eleven thousand surgery is pending at the level of Crete. It is also translated into closures and mergers of hospitals and clinics with the anti-scientific criterion of distance, but also under the pretext of the low completeness of clinics, as was done by the merger of PAGNE's Paediatric and Paediatric Clinics, flying in the trash the hospital administration, the 7th U.S. and the Minister with the reply, which gave to the relevant question of our party, the recommendation of the Scientific Council and the Director of the Paediatrics, which opposes this unscientific criminal act. Government plans, which saw the light of publicity for a further merger of hospitals with special reference to units adjacent to kilometres, including the hospitals of Agios Nikolaos, Ierapetra, Sitia and Neapolis in Lassithi, constitute a crime for the people and health workers, when due to the morphology of the prefecture, the similar population concentration in four urban centres and the lousy road network urgent assistance is required to permanent staff and equipment all four units, as well as the Jermiad Health Centre and all regional hospitals in the county. All this is part of the European Union's health strategy, which also provides through a set of legislation for changing the legal form of hospitals and for converting them to public limited companies in the ERC. The most famous Pissaridis report cynicism baptises the need for a purely public and free health system, while raising pandemic to an opportunity for export businesses. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President. This is why the Government, by using a weapon against pandemic in the form of private individuals' incursions, provides opportunities for further trade in health by granting hospital administrations to specialised companies, by granting agricultural doctors and health centres to doctors' consortia in the form of leasing to operate as private companies under the supervision of the EHR, by developing a single model for the organisation and operation of primary health care, to compete more effectively with those of the private sector, with a maximum patient examination of 15 minutes and abolishing free examination at home for patients who cannot be moved, by removing also the single wages for health care and establishing criteria and incentives for economic and social efficiency, which diversify the salaries of doctors, nurses and administrative staff with a view to increasing productivity through the system of evaluation of officials and structures, as well as the pooling of insurance companies with economic and social efficiency, which differs the cost of health care and many credit facilities for health caregiving, and medical care facilities, as well as well as health caregiving facilities and medical care facilities. The new ESS therefore requires new cuts in medical operations, prescribings and costs, in conjunction with the extension of the DRG system, the categorisation of patients according to the needs of the market, i.e. how much each patient costs, surgery, a medical or nursing act, the consumables used, always according to the logic ‘health equals costs and patients of equal customer’. Hand - Hand SYRIZA and New Democracy entrusted the Center for Documentation and Costaging Hospital Services to develop the Greek DRG system. For example, since July 2021 it has been decided to integrate hospitals in Crete into the Greek Institute of DRG, as well as to implement diagnostic homogeneous groups. This is a measure which unscientificly accepts that there are diseases and not patients, without regard to the specificity of the medical history of each patient and the need for individualised treatment of each case. These goals are served by the innocent and merciful donations from large monopolistic groups, Niarches, Latsis and so on, for the reinforcement of hospitals, which, of course, have arisen from the wild exploitation of workers to justify tax exemptions, arrangements for insurance performances of major clericals, while developing the idea that modern health structures are a matter of charity and not a right. Exemption from responsibility for funding and operation is nothing new. Afternoon doctors and diagnostics in hospitals are already an important part of the revenues for nursing establishments, selling health services paid by insured persons either directly or indirectly through the EEAS, even though the people have already paid them through insurance contributions and taxation. The underfunding, underselling, and the increasing transfer of additional health costs to patients, people with disabilities, on the pretext of demographic problems and economic conditions within or outside the country, are a deliberate, conscious choice of governments, in order for hospitals, health centres, all public health and welfare structures to be unable to respond to the health needs of the people, forcing patients to address the private sector, by paying their head for benefits. Therefore, against this policy, which weighs human life on profit only the people with their struggle can save the people. The JRC makes a call to the health workers, to all people for combatant coexistence, to strengthen the fight and claim for an exclusively state health-care system, universal, modern and absolutely free of charge, without business action, with state funding of public health units. In the face of your criminal policy on health and its content, there is a way out. The JRC's positions are based on a completely different concept, highlighting the possibility, today, of a modern and universal state health and welfare system. This proposal is incompatible with the chase of the capitalist profitability you serve. This obstacle, capitalist property and power, is what the JRC is today. So once the times change and the hopes of the people break. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u15	Thank you too, Mr. Synchronous. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. The question is whether your policy prioritises the protection of the health of the people. The same evidence proves not to be true. Above the health of the people you put the profits of business groups. It's always been like this with the other governments, PASOK, SYRIZA and their allied shapes. But pandemic has highlighted the cynicity of your barbaric policy, which is intertwined with this inhuman capitalist system, which, as a whole, even trades in the protection of public health. In no mass space you have taken the necessary measures for the pandemic. Schools with a lack of even the presence in cleaners. On public transport, more frequent routes? Nothing. Workplaces are conspired without any control. You're counting everything in the logic of cost. And what are you propagandaing as a solution? Just the measures that have shaped this dreadful and dangerous health system for the people. It is thus confirmed that the development of the health system in the context of the capitalist economy and the profits of business groups is incompatible, is in conflict with the popular needs of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. Health protection is not just from the coronary, but also from other diseases. And how modern health system that in an expected pandemic according to scientists all other patients had to be excluded from the necessary examinations, surgery, etc. To withstand the pressure of patients from COVID? And you get to the point where you ask the government of health regions to limit scheduled regular surgery of up to 80% depending on the circumstances? This decision comes at a time when hospitals well have not recovered from the previous corresponding decision on reductions, while the coronary pandemic is looming with a new mutation for which everyone wonders whether it is covered by the existing vaccines, when so far we have dozens of dead on a daily basis. This is how the pandemic of other morbidity other than COVID is killed. Thousands of patients remain on the hospital waiting lists without any visible prospect of operating for years, for major problems. They are convicted of a serious deterioration in their level of life or are forced, if they have to pay, to operate in the private sector. That is why it is urgent and had to be strengthened by public hospitals with the necessary staff yesterday, to recruit all doctors who have shown a desire for positions in the ESS, to permanently simulate without conditions and conditions all the auxiliary doctors who are serving. Also topical and necessary are risk prevention and response. The need to take substantial and systematic measures comes all the time, with the result of tragic accidents at work. Labour accidents due to a lack of protection measures exist every day, but are not recorded. We only know the dead. They're employers' crimes. In the first ten months of 2021, there have been at least eighteen workers' deaths at work. But we do not know about crippled workers in hours of work. Just in the last few days, we have tragic examples, with the food distributor in Thessaloniki, but also the division of the worker in 'COSCO', which has just triggered large strikes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall also take my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u17	All right, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u18	Since 2014, there has been a continuous increase in accidents at work. It is a challenge by highlighting the responsibilities of all governments for not registering occupational diseases, since deaths from occupational diseases annually in our country record the shameful "zero". No occupational cancer, no occupational asthma etc. Really, how many sanitaries have stuck in the last two years of coronary? How many occupational diseases were recorded in our country? Even the ones that come to the surface, they're interfering with class clubs. For example, in 2018 there were mobilisations in the ship repair zone because hundreds of workers were directly exposed to asbestos release operations without protection measures on a repaired ship, although it is known how extremely dangerous it is for the life and health of those who come into contact. There is even a Community directive. The then Minister for Maritime Affairs gave orders to continue work! Also, at the EEA Health Unit in Perama, which gives significant help not only to the residents of the region, but also faces exceptional accidents in the ship repair zone, there is no surgeon, a basic specialty. Now it also operates as a vaccination centre, without means of strengthening it in a series of necessary specialities. Also, as regards programming for what specialties we want, there are few specialists with specialty. In most cases, specialization is carried out as a result of unskilled doctors or doctors of unrelated specialties, at the same time as deaths and disabilities from occupational diseases remain undiagnosed, which tragic accidents deprive workers of their lives of violence, measures and a number of possibilities to prevent and treat occupational risks, precisely because they are treated as unnecessary costs by a state and an employer. Finally, it is confirmed and it is demonstrated that the prevention measures considered necessary are those - and only - which are translated into a profit for the employer. It is also known that job insecurity, flexible working relationships are linked to an increase in occupational morbidity and accidents, as is done in 'COSCO'. It is documented that the dissolution of fixed daily working time and the prolongation of working day and week leads to the elimination, with measurable results, even in occupational morbidity. The evidence and evidence from the World Health Organisation and ILO where 40% of occupational risk-related deaths are linked to many hours of work. That is why it is unhealthy and dangerous for your policy and it helps the people to overthrow it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. The next speaker is Mr George Marinos. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u20	The Communist Party of Greece supports the struggles of health workers and other workers, who now directly claim the recruitment of permanent medical and nursing staff, integration into heavy and unhealthy, permanentization of contractors, new intensive treatment facilities, staffing and opening of closed hospitals, direct private sector qualification without conditions. And the government sells madness, it really sells madness. He thinks it's all right! He refuses to take measures to shield the public health system, measures in the workplace, in public transport, in schools where children are stacked in rooms even twenty-seven students. It loads it all up to individual responsibility and tries to cover criminal government responsibilities at the time eighteen thousand dead, tens dead and thousands of cases per day and we have over six hundred fifty permeated. Gentlemen of the government often use as an alibi comparisons with other states, but your comparisons confirm the barbaric nature of the pilgrimage system. Even in powerful capitalist states public health systems collapsed. Capitalism cannot guarantee universal vaccination. In the poorest countries, the rate of vaccination is 6%, while at the same time in other capitalist countries, lots of millions of doses have ended and are being misused. These are the consequences of the vaccine - commodity, capitalist anarchy and the competition of monopolies, which harm the people. Every year and worse. The governments of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA are responsible for the timeless problem of sub-financing the public health system, following the European Union's cut strategy, which tackles health expenditure as a cost, to give the large capital billions and billions of euros. In pandemic conditions, state spending is reduced. It's challenging. In 2021 it decreased by EUR 572 million compared to 2020 and in 2022 a new massacre is planned. 348 million are being cut for hospitals, health centers and EEAS, which you are carved through this people. On all the governments closed hospitals, merged clinics, perpetuated major shortages of medical and nursing staff in ICU and today problems were exacerbated, led to intuitions outside the ICU, mass deferrals of regular surgery, large tails for examinations. Gentlemen of the government, you're talking about hiring drops into the ocean and you mean contractors who are constantly wandering. Dissolve health centers to cover holes in hospitals. Sanitaries have been kneeled by the intensification of work, the miserable working conditions. This situation is recorded in Evia, Central Greece. The new Hospital of Chalkida, which has multiple needs from the old, operates almost with the same permanent staff. The situation is intolerable. In the intensive care unit, they account for two nurses for 12 incidents, and that is scandalous. At the Hospital of Lamia, which is a CIVID reference hospital, the gaps are about 40%. I was just notified that feminists and orthopaedics were being transported to the CIVID clinic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take the time of my dentistry, Mr. President. Even worse is the situation at the Hospital of Karpenesi, in which there are no basic specialties. It's on the edge of the razor. Chronic acute problems exist in the Hospitals of Amphissa, Livadia, Thebes, which the government is preparing for a solvent merger with the new deep traded RHS, in industrial areas, camps, Gypsies camps, refugee structures. Great are the deficiencies in Kymi and Kymi Hospitals. There's been an alarm in the health centers. Stop, Minister, the falsehoods. Indicate those who hesitate to make the vaccine, who have questions and ask for information and care. The contradictions and the revolts fuel you irrationality. Use all means to avoid taking measures to shield the public health system. For the New Democracy and all urban parties, for the exploitation system health is a merchandise and the reinforcement of public hospitals, primary health care is a burden, as you say, for the economy. It is judged by the criterion of the profitability of the business groups. That's what your policy is. But supporting capitalist profits undermines the protection of the people's health, and this very thorn requires labour struggle to take off the waist, so that the road can be opened in a philosophical way. The vaccine is extremely necessary, but it is not panacea. Vaccines are infected by the virus, they transmit it, they are at risk. The vaccine is a weapon, but at the same time it is necessary to prevent, drugs, epidemiological surveillance and traceability, modern public hospitals and primary health care with full staff and equipment in order to address all needs in good time, efficient and free time. Let the people consider how important the JRC's political proposal is, how important it is to call a monitoring and pharmacovigilance centre for the constant monitoring of vaccinated animals. Severe interference with any side effects and a scientific record of immediate and long-term vaccination effects. How important it is that we claim a universal programme of public free vaccination with all effective and safe vaccines, focusing on primary health care, to carry out vaccination with appropriate vaccines on the basis of medical evidence, using scientific data. There should be a free, complete preventive medical check to detect cases that have been contraindicated for vaccination and safeguarding for those who have to be excluded that there will be no consistency or discrimination. The planned daily update of all the data resulting from the vaccination course may contribute to overcoming suspensions, but the government uses authoritarian measures. He dismisses workers and refuses to organise a serious vaccination campaign. Give answers to questions to prevent the impact of darkening perceptions on sections of the population. The importance of the mass struggle, therefore, to the necessity of conflict with anti-French politics and capitalist barbarism, is apparent every day. The coexistence of working people with the JRC and its political proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Marino. The floor is now for the Member of the Lesvos, Maria Konnaka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. The tragic and dangerous situation in the public health structures of the islands has not arisen, of course, as something new because of the exceptional circumstances, now has a permanent pandemic that undermines and endangers the lives of the islands because of this policy of reduced government budgets, subsistence, reasonable costs and the commercialisation of health benefits that continue and complement all governments to date. Of course, the criminal management of the pandemic by the Government of New Democracy has made the deadlocks even more acute and cynic, especially in island areas, where the conversion of the only hospital or health centre into a hospital of a disease, and not always with sufficient and absolute success, means total exclusion from any health provision, even for diseases for which delayed diagnosis or treatment can cause irreversible health damage. A characteristic, but not unique, is the example of Paros, one of the islands of the marvelous tourism, where the occurrence of incidents to incomplete personnel forced the only health center of the island for ten days to accept only urgent incidents, while inhibiting the operation of regional hospitals in the absence of staff, excluding even this possibility of prescribing. The limiting operation of health centres is neither a new nor a limited phenomenon on the islands, where, of course, the additional staffing of the vaccination centres by the same incomplete and exhausted personnel and deforestation of health centres in order to cover holes in the empty hospitals raises a question of the safe operation of the structures, as the health and other mass operators of the islands are repeatedly denounced and we are showing dozens of interventions in the House, which, of course, lead to a voice in the desert. That is why, even in the cases of increased incidents in schools, health centres on the islands raise their hands high in the absence of materials, mobile health units close down in the absence of staff, and thus refer to the forced tracking of private laboratories, which are, of course, doing gold jobs all this time. These tragic deficiencies also highlighted in their recent movement to the Ministry of Health, unions and institutions of Ikaria and Samos, where permanent gaps in basic medical specialities, but also other necessary health personnel, are probably more deafening than the sounds of the juurnades that accompanied the Prime Minister during his visit to the island. In fact, murmuring is even greater when it often thickens the patching of the gaps with doctors occasionally transferred from one island to another, baking holes, opening up another and eventually converting the coverage of the island’s health into a special Russian roulette game. However, is it the result of exceptional conditions when, for example, the Mytilini Hospital is staying with a single nephrologer in one of the largest nephrological sections of island Greece, which is looking after sixty regularly hemorrhaging people, as long as they need refugees and immigrants of the refugee structure or other visitors of the island? At the same time invoke the lack of interest in the positions that are being proclaimed on the islands, when permanent positions are called on by the dropper, by sampling, while in most cases it will mean that the only doctor per specialty appointed will have to visit half or more than a month. The unforgettable example of the unique pathologist of the Lemnos Hospital who arrived to watch for thirty three consecutive days, certainly does not work encouragingly to fill the vacancy, much less lacking of the slightest originality for the health structures of the islands. While you are keeping wages slashed out of the leaps of so many governments and memoranda, you expect it to work encouragingly with a poor allowance, such as the ones you spoke about in the past days that eventually evaporate, especially in most of the cases of the tourist islands from the greedy rents. [[The debate is closed at this point.]] Even more dangerous is the situation from the great shortages of the EKAB, which is constantly bringing to the news of a new tragic event, such as the recent loss of the firefighter in Chios, on duty, where it took forty minutes to reach the ambulance from the city of Chios, while the ambulance was in the nearby Volissos district hospital, only ten minutes from the incident remains immobilized in the absence of personnel. Similar problems occur in aerospaces that have become a regular solution for hospitalisation on the islands, but neither the frequency of the routes nor the constant on-site on-site on-site hospitals, resulting in patients in a heavy state being carried with accompanying doctors from health establishments, which presents risks for their safe stay and at the same time weakens already subordinated health structures. It is, in fact, a conscious choice of the gradual tradition and of the EMCDDA, as well as of the immediate assistance and emergency medical care to individuals who also treasure in this area with tragic results for the lives of the people. Perimeter evidence of this dangerous tradition of public health in the hands of individuals is the tragic subsidization of the Santorini Hospital, which, of course, also demonstrates the strategic symposium of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, which jointly celebrated the operation of the hospital on terms of anonymous company, transforming the health of the people into luxury for expensive wallets. This is the modern health system you call for, in which the so-called harmonious coexistence of public and private sectors is translated into increasingly subordinated public health structures, increasing reductions in care needs, in order to open freely to business, with health transforming into an expensive commodity only for those who can acquire it. We're returning this to you. But it will also be returned to you by the people themselves, matching the level of claims and their struggles with that of their real modern needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. The last question Member is Mr Nikolaos Papastasis, and immediately after the speech, the Minister for Health will be given by Mr Ploris. Mr. Papastasis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u24	Already by my previous fellow Members, many aspects of an inhuman health system such as what exists today. Minister, on 19 September, which passed us - you have recently undertaken as Minister of Health - you have made a statement, that we continue to implement all reforms related to the strengthening of the ESS, the rationalisation of the EEAS, the upgrading of primary care, the possibility of preventive examinations for all Greeks and the smooth cooperation of the public and private sectors. The results of the reform, rationalisation, upgrading, tradition in the private sector, alas, live by Greeks at the moment, people, workers, farmers, farmers throughout Greece. Lefkada Hospital: The employees cry out about the lack of staff at the hospital. They are the ones who applaud them and when you beat them when they ask and demand solutions - not for themselves, they put him second - for nursing units. In the same hospital, 70% of organic sites are empty. This lack kneels them, medical and nursing staff to cope with the requirements daily. They leave pieces in the hospital from themselves. How long will they last? On 31 December, twenty-four contract staff are made redundant in cleaning, feeding, keeping. They are those who have fixed-term contracts, work with paid rights, faced with redundancies, replacements, and now face unemployment. You have launched the awkwardness of the return of the contractors to hospitals. Yes or no? The answer is 'yes'. You have stated this clearly: The National Health System as a whole is not necessarily a state health system. Almond on the world. This goes with the two empty organic positions of the new organogram. They've sent it to you. Where is he? Hidden in your drawers, because if it comes back to the hospital, they'll be chasing you with stones, because it will unravel you! Agrinio Hospital: pentaster hotel services. Hospital? It is called the hospital of death. A few months ago, the intensive care unit was closed. Whoever came in alive was dead out. Tragic situations. You triggered it in September, which spent us as a COVID Intensive Treatment Unit. There is no intensive treatment unit for other diseases. Dramatic hypotension, organograms of the hospital that go back to decades, borrowed by another hospital. But the marble labels written by the names of the ministers of the New Democracy passed well on the wall. There's no CT scanner. There isn't, like I said, an intensive treatment unit. In red the possibility of hospitalisation of coronary cases. Already the patients are transported to hospitals in neighbouring counties. Of course, there is no talk of incidents that need to be treated in ICUs or in simple COVID beds. And here the contractors have gathered and pushed each other into the hospital gate to take up the positions of cleanliness, feeding, guarding workers with fixed-term contracts, that is to say, the ones you'll throw them on the road on 31 December. The medical staff keeps with nails and teeth the possibility of treating incidents of COVID alive. Arta, Janna, Preveza, Messolong, the same. Work suspensions have kneeled the staff. They're in despair. They told us two days ago that we met with them. They operate COVID beds without the necessary personnel. They're leaving the auxiliary doctors without supplementing them. Employees are asking for a change in the hospital organization based on modern needs. What do you say? Conversion of the hospital to a health center or even worse and closure. You throw them in the face of the new NSA. They're desperate, both the workers and the local residents. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall also take my dentistry. Your government is stepping on the ground that SYRIZA and all previous governments have set it up. Reinforce consciously and orderlylylyly the operation of public hospitals. What do you say to the people? "If you want to live, go through the accounting office." Shame on you! Shame on anyone who accepts that. You said on September 17, reluctantly, in a radio interview in Portugal, which supports your policy over there in SKAI, that the provision of health services is an interest in the state, says, more given by a private person. So far, your efforts have not been successful in extinguishing the people's conquests on health, and this has not been accidental. You have been delayed by the decisive attitude shown by workers in public hospitals. You have been delayed by the organized resistance to your policy ahead of the JRC, the resistance to the policy of SYRIZA, PASOK and others, a policy that treats the health of the people as a cost to the capital, but as a gold mine for the big business. Yours, you support them. Health developments clearly show that the people have two paths of development and nothing else. It's white or black. One is the way to dominate the criterion of satisfying social needs and the second is the current one, who treats health as a commodity. Yes, there is controversy, and even strong, and this confrontation will judge whether a health system that serves social needs or not will be conquered, nothing else. It's over. With this logic, we call on the Communist Party of Greece to collide with any health that stands against these developments under government policy, which refuses to subjugate its science to the government policy of the hospital - a company that wants to defend the needs of the patients. We call on the people in a daily struggle not to remove rights, to make it difficult to implement the anti-grassroots measures, but also to demand that modern needs be met. We need to strengthen the fight of wider popular masses to socialise the concentrated means of production, for nationwide central planning and for popular control. These are only the conditions in which all the conditions are created for the development of the people's health system, but at the level that can meet ever-enlarged people's and social needs rather than inflaming business's wallets.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Papastasis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment on the subject: 'State investments and improvement of the investment environment by speeding up procedures in private and strategic investments and creating a framework for corporations of technocrats'. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my time, I will respond to what has developed in the context of an ideological controversy which has also been attempted in the inaccurate part that has been said, but also in what the Communist Party of Greece in the end asks in his question, what is our design for health, the National Health System and all health structures? To start with a subject that is ideological confrontation. We all agree that we should provide the public health benefit. Some believe that this public good should only be provided by the state. They usually start and contradict, because they are the same ones who, while saying to provide only the state, when it comes to the issue of the EEAY that pays either clinical laboratory tests or other providers, comes and takes their place that clawback is big. If you want to compensate only the state, then you cannot talk about private providers. These, however, beyond the general political debate that we could have done and which would have a great deal of interest, are things that have been judged. Because you spoke well about the capitalist world, how it manages the pandemic, but I was looking to find out how the communist countries manage it and I don't find them to have them as an example of management. The question, then, is first of all - the ideology you say - 'the state free provision of health'. We have to understand that there is nothing for free. The free price, which you say, someone pays, and whoever pays for it, is the Greek taxpayer. There is nothing that is free and no money. Money is being given. Even when something is provided without consideration, it does not mean that the person who received the service has not paid it, because he has paid it from the taxes he gives it. It is therefore very important to see what model we want in health. We come in a clear way and say that we want a strong national health system. And we'll report what we've done for the National Health System. In the same way, however, the public health asset can also provide it with partnerships with the private sector and where the private sector has better services, we must look for them to integrate them into the core of the National Health System so that, in the end, the insured citizen has the best possible treatment. Because that's what it's all about, being the best treatment possible. Therefore, the good of health is provided by the State either through the National Health System or through the EEAY, which is co-operating with private providers. What has now happened for the National Health System and for the pandemic, but also for the pandemic, to which we must refer? What's going on today? Today we have 12 000 health workers who have entered the National Health System, two thousand sixty-nine subsidiary doctors and over two thousand permanent doctors. In the past five years, a total of two thousand seven hundred and fifty-four doctors and two years of New Democracy's governance were called for two thousand eight hundred ninety permanent doctors, where over two thousand posts were covered. The others are barren, and again they come out of notices to cover them. So when we talk and want to talk about data, I come and tell you here for twelve thousand ancillarys, for two thousand sixty-nine subsidiary doctors, for over two thousand permanent doctors who are currently working in the National Health System. State the funds allocated to health. We're increasing it to 4.520,000, for 2022, for 4.270,000. Trying to create a game with extraordinary expenses. Exceptional expenditure for 2021 was predicted and 944,000, for 2022, as there is a forecast that there will be a recession in the course of the year in the pandemic, EUR 736,000. And, yes, if other funds are needed, as was done in 2021, they will be given according to the course of the pandemic. What's further coming over here to support the National Health System? One and a half billion euros from the Recovery Fund, which we forget, which no one mentions. It is one and a half billion euros, the biggest aid ever to be made. Most of this money - almost all of it - will be in the National Health System either directly to improve existing structures and support the equipment, either to create the patient's digital file, to create the digitalisation of the digital file in hospitals themselves, or to primary care, for clawback and respectively for a number of other separate actions that have to do with specific hospitals. This is exactly how the National Health System will be strengthened. There will obviously also be public-private partnerships as well as public-private partnerships. This is clear and it is something we have said in every way, it is in our programme and we believe it. And we believe that there will also be much better service for the patient, because there can be opportunities for scary development of the National Health System. Because through the PPPs, beyond this money that I am telling you, it will also be the contribution that will be made to individuals and we will be able to have very large sums of money for the National Health System. And I don't understand why, in other words, it's a bad machine that has to go into a hospital of the National Health System, if it can get in and get paid in practice to a private person, is it worse than buying the public machine and putting it in? And if you're talking about the interests you're saying... [[Noise from the wing of the JRC]] If you think it is an interest to get in and work a machine in practice and, if necessary, do you want to buy certain machines from certain companies? Because interests have a double reading. [[Noise from the wing of the JRC]] Now you'll hear!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u27	It's nonsense!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u28	I heard what you said and I didn't interrupt you. Now you'll hear! Learn to the Communist Party of Greece to listen already!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u29	No nonsense, because now you've said nonsense!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u30	Please don't interrupt. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u31	I will tell you what nonsense you have said, especially what nonsense you said one by one. Therefore, the support of the National Health System is made with direct money given to the National Health System, with public-private partnerships and, of course, with the strengthening of this whole world that I have told you. And for the first time, it was put on the Subcommittee on the Regions and we discussed what incentives are going to exist, because there is a great problem at the moment, that doctors are not willing to enter the National Health System, which this unwillingness is irrelevant to the pandemic and is mainly mentioned in specific areas where, apart from economic incentives already planned and given, there must be other incentives to go specifically in areas of island or remote Greece. And, yes, in this whole context, we take into account that there can be potential for cooperation. The doctor of the National Health System himself may be able to exploit the structures of the National Health System and where we need, in areas where there are IFs, doctors from the private sector, as is the case in the pandemic, who provide their services in practice and in the public sector. Why, in other words, on an island where there might be doctors outside the National Health System who do not want to join and we cannot find a man to go, cannot the private doctor who is there provide services to the National Health System? Why should we be dogmatic in this context? In all this reinforcement of the National Health System - and now I will come to the inaccuracies that you are saying - we are dealing with intensive care beds. Five hundred fifty-seven intensive beds in September 2019, a thousand three hundred intensive beds at the moment we talk and constantly grow. And they are intensive therapy beds that have been done with all approved procedures by the Ministry of Health, they operate, they all have staff, they all have technical infrastructure and medical and nursing staff. You say: Since this situation exists, why do you not do a requisition of private-sector IF beds? You say it - and you say it in a clear way - 'a check without giving a euro', and SYRIZA says so. And we're answering you - and we'll say it as many times as you need, until you understand and stop saying inaccurate - the following: The whole private sector IF beds have been placed in the EAW for non-COVID incidents and whenever there is no bed in public hospitals, the private-sector free beds are occupied. There are now more than two hundred incidents in these structures. Cooperation from the first moment is this: The empty beds are given to the ESS, are administered by the EAW. As soon as a national health care hospital is declared inability to serve an incident in an ICU, we see where there is a vacant private sector ICU - if there is - because they too fill up - and automatically go there. Unless you think we're gonna have to pull out the incidents that are being treated. Because if there's one incident inside the bed, we won't take it off, and he's an EOPY's insured, too, to put someone else in. It should therefore be made clear that the whole private sector ICU beds are managed by the EMCDDA and at any time we receive the beds. But what's going on? These IF beds are obviously for non COVID incidents. And why is it “presumably”? Because there cannot be cases in the same area at the same time of COVID and non-COVID. At the moment, the great difficulty in managing the IF beds is that there is a parallel system of beds shared and half are for COVID incidents and the other half are for non COVID incidents. There may be moments waiting in COVID incidents and there is an empty bed in non COVID, but a COVID incident can't be carried there and a drum. Problem with the ICUs - to get you the papers to see - there was always before the pandemic. Seventy, eighty and a hundred were the waiting for a Clinic ICU. At the moment, with the pandemic, what we have achieved is to have the IF beds, at the same time developed a series of MFF beds, surgical beds, but also simple beds that have all the technical equipment of the respirator and the monitor and the medical staff, and to manage all the incidents that come from lege artis, the rules of medical science, with the great battle of staff, doctors and nurses, the National Health System and all Greeks to receive the treatment they receive, when countries with much stronger National Health Systems have requested assistance from neighboring countries, so that they can ensure hospitality. This, ladies and gentlemen, has been achieved with a complete design, where the whole ESS, with its capabilities, and all the private-sector MIT beds, is in place. And develop, as long as we can grow, and other IF beds. Where appropriate, we use ΜΜΦ beds and where necessary we use special simple beds with the equipment concerned and where necessary we use the surgical beds. I come to a subject where a great deal of talk has taken place. What Mrs Gaga sent to health regions is, yes, based on the design of each hospital on regular surgery that can be postponed as a certain percentage - not so - on the basis of needs. There is no need in Athens at the moment. In Athens, there is still room for meth beds and simple COVID and non COVID beds. So it's not activated. The hospital itself decides where and how it should use this and activate it. It is a possibility that administrations, together with the pressure they feel. The main pressure right now is in Thessaloniki. Already in other regions, such as Thessaly, with very strong pressure and an upward trend, there seems to be a balance, even at large. The same applies to other regions of northern Greece. Thessaloniki, in fact, is being pushed too hard. The whole region, the whole country is pressed, elsewhere less, but everywhere the situation is manageable. In Thessaloniki we have taken all necessary measures. Then put another dogmatic arm. All right, we're leaving the beds, I imagine, we all understand that all the private sector ITH beds are using them. Let's go to the simple beds. In Thessaly on two points we asked for beds from the private sector. I should like to inform you, without shocking you, that the republics are ordered and not totalitarian regimes are paid and paid by the Constitution. It's not paid if we want to or don't want to. When you get a service, whether private or in kind, you have to pay it back. So if you respect the taxpayer's money and don't want to make gifts in private clinics - because it would be a pleasure to make up structures and pay empty beds every day - you do your calculation with the needs you have. Based on the needs, we received three hundred sixty beds in Thessaly. Your rapporteur is from Larissa and knows that beds have been given and he knows that there are currently a number of different beds that have inside COVID incidents and other clinics that have given non-COVID, three hundred sixty-five incidents. In Larissa, if I'm not mistaken, it's over half. Is that where we had to call a "writing"? The fact that we went and made an agreement, which, in the end, these beds are being used and fully integrated into the ESS, is something you're against? In Thessaloniki, for you well mentioned names, put next to those names you say what beds he has given - not the ITHs we have taken - simple. Hasn't "Relief" given two hundred? Hasn't eighty eighty-eight been given the "General"? Hasn't the 'Blue' given thirty? Has the "Bioclical" not given fifteen? Hasn't he given the 'Davalcan' thirty and have others been given? So you come and you say. Well, then, report the names. But say what beds they gave. Because you are presenting a situation - and this is also the Civic Opposition - which is absolutely false, that private sector structures have not been used at the moment, and that they have also been used for COVID. In "Help", which we have received two hundred beds, COVID incidents are treated. So this comes here and says how cooperation is being made. And you, anyway, say something else. You think we could take them away, not pay them anything, and put their staff on the line. Because that is what you are saying: an order without compensation. Reimbursement without compensation, means you take it and force them. So I'm telling you that this is not happening. But in your account that supposedly no specific structures have been used, I can prove to you that they have been used in Thessaloniki as well as in Thessaly we needed them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u32	How much do we pay them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u33	They take with a hospital, which is specific and which is specified. But you said from here, you who are asking now, why don't we do the ordering of the ITH beds. And I tell you what inaccurate you said. And do you know what the inaccuracy is? That all the IF beds are at our disposal. So you're saying inaccurate. You mentioned one - one of the structures - and I tell you that these structures have given beds. And the beds you mention, in the non-COVIDs that they are, are certainly paid with the hospital designated by the EEAY and does not have the patient's involvement, because we do not want to do so in cases where the public sends the public to pay for their participation. But do you want to make a decision: do you want to use private sector structures to deal with pandemic or do you not want to? Because at the moment you present an image that is not used and when we tell you that we use them, then you come to say whether they are compensated or not compensated. Apparently they're being compensated. So we come to the track now, because it's a talk with the vaccines, and you come and say 'yes, the vaccine, but not just the vaccine'. This is where we have to be sitting and clear. Since we have had vaccines 85% of the cases are unvaccinated, 90% of the hospitals have been unvaccinated 95% of the IF hospitals are unvaccinated. Right now that the population that has been vaccinated is much older, because we are currently in 73% of the adult population - and I am referring to the Greek population, because I am referring to the adult population, because hospitalisation in ICU beds is not about the adult population, it is not about the minors - even right now, so that 73% of the adult population is vaccinated, the evidence is catalytic: 85% of the unemployed are in ICUs. This must be a clear message. We have made a great effort all this time, with an exemplary vaccination system that came up with the SMS, made an appointment and went to be vaccinated, and right now, with the measures taken 15, 20 days ago, for which you accused us, you see that the dates have come to the level of March. It shows, then, that they did. I don't understand the criticism you're making. On the one hand, you talk and say whether the mandatory requirement should be extended and on the other hand, you do not support the obligation where it is in place, which is the hardest core that exists, doctors and nurses and those who provide services to vulnerable groups. Here, then, and an effort has been made and an effort is still being made. The message must be clear: it is the vaccine that saves us. At the same time, however, with the vaccine, we have taken care and were the first to have taken unilaterally from the European package of agreements. When? When they were approved by the European Medicines Agency. On 12 November, they were adopted, on 11 December we had monoclonals. They are, however, specific groups. Already, any companies that have put pills have made deals by the end of the year, but also in new time, to have. And all of this is given free of charge, and the vaccine and these treatments. But when we say free again, the taxpayer pays them. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] You come and make an ideological comparison of capitalist and non-capitalist countries. Capitalist countries all give them free, because they respect their citizens and give them the vaccine, they also give them the treatments that are available for free. Yes, free of charge, all those who enter the National Health System have the treatment, which corresponds to them. However, this 'free' means that everyone pays for it together, taxpayers pay it. I would like at this point to stand, because you are also referring to the part of individual responsibility. Watch out, what's going on. Within the framework of the measures taken, of course, checks must be carried out and these checks must be seen and penalised to those who do not comply with the measures. I should like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, because we all saw yesterday what happened on the Toumba stadium with the interruption of the struggle that has taken place, that I was, unfortunately, informed that from the arrests that have occurred there are people who were inconvenienceless, which means that a particular group did not do the right thing to get in. Therefore, in addition to the sanctions provided for and not related to the Ministry, there will be sanctions which are to be imposed on compliance with the measures. Because at some point it must be made clear that the possibility given to certain places to be just people, who are vaccinated, is not negotiated on the part of the state. And those who cannot observe this will accept the sanctions, but they may put an entire project at risk, and it is based on the fact that the teams will have to control the world that comes in. And to understand it's hard on a field to check if the other guy has or doesn't have the mask throughout the race. However, the fact that he who comes in has a vaccination certificate and is vaccinated must keep it, you must control it, and if you do not control it you will suffer the consequences, but there will be any criminal responsibilities that exist due to measures for the non-dispersal of the coronary, although if you are willing to enter people who are not vaccinated in areas that are only for vaccinated. To conclude, Mr President - the rest in my dentistry - because there has been an entire debate on both the preventive tests and on the National Health Services Agency, in the EEA, we have said that we will go to quality criteria. And that shows how each of us sees private health. You see the EOPY on the Left as an agency that is obliged not to operate in the direction of the insured person, but in the direction of the provider and to share money with the providers, while we because EOPYY is an agency which manages the money of the Greek taxpayer and insured, will order the private sector and provide quality services from them, which can also be provided and paid on the basis of the services they provide, because only in this way will we be able to return and tell our insured that the money you give EOPY is a place. You have also raised the issue - and I conclude with that in my prototype - of preventive examinations. In the preventive tests a large part of the Recovery Fund has to do with the preventive tests. For the first time, there will be a design of preventive examinations. In fact, some of these preventive tests are preventive tests for the breast that will have the name of the Phophysic Genome. At the same time, however, there are other actions to do with the preventive tests, which will be in a model to exploit the advantages that we have seen from vaccination, which means that in the population, whoever has the characteristics to do the preventive examination will be sending him a message, informing him and going to do his examination for free.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u34	Which used to exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u35	There wasn't that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u36	The genome told you in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u37	Listen. Don't interrupt, you'll talk. I'll explain it to you. What was there, so you wouldn't get confused? There was a precedent when there was evidence to prescribe. That was a sign, prescribing and going for the examination. That was before. What we are saying now - and you need to understand it, and you must all understand it - is something else. We do not expect the citizen to move to see if there are any conditions for a prescribing his examination. What we are saying is that the state now comes and finds out who has the profile based on age or whatever else and sends the examination and this examination is directly free of charge without any participation. It is therefore a great effort through the 'Doxiadis' programme that is in place at the Recovery Fund in order to go ahead of the population in a number of exams and, on the one hand, to make a proper digital record following the patient's digital file, on the other hand, to allow an early stage to check the country's epidemiologically, so that at a later stage we can prevent hospitalisation, which would exist. So it's not just a program of whether you can do or not do the examination. This is all the difference that comes from the Recovery Fund. I'm not underestimating any attempt to prescribe an examination. However, the programme of preventive examinations leaves the leg of the initiative to go to prescribe and comes to the arm that we are getting charges that are based on the age group. And that is something that when it comes, it is certain that you will all vote. From there on, I am reluctant to say more specific things about the EEAS and about the medicine you have said about the National Health System. For we are the design we have is the one that was in our programme, we serve him and he is in the interest of the patient, for the sake of public health.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Minister. We are entering the speeches of the parliamentary representatives. The first speaker will be Mr Karathanasopoulos from the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, according to the Rules of Procedure you are entitled to twelve minutes. But since your President has spoken, I will give you six minutes. That doesn't mean you're gonna talk for six minutes. You'll have a comfort to complete. I'm just telling you so you don't get surprised I'm gonna put up with six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u39	However, the list given to us here speaks for twelve minutes and with the speech of our President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u40	You have your dentistry three minutes. All right, in ten minutes, we'll make it. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Although the Minister said a lot, he did not answer the main questions of the JRC and the basic contradictions. For example, while in today's period of science evolution there are digital surgery and robotic interventions, there are personalized drugs considered in Greece as a feat of closing an appointment. The Minister also did not answer the question, because the expensive health systems in developed capitalist countries collapsed with the appearance of a COVID virus. The Minister did not answer the question, because while in ten months he was able to produce the vaccine, only 6% of the population in the poorest countries is vaccinated. Aren't these traits that confirm the parasitic character of the capitalist system? And he made sure to ideology it, saying capitalism really exaggerates. And he wondered what was happening to communism. Does it not know, for example, that Cuba, which is trying to build socialism, the small Cuba that has a population as much as Greece and has a sixty years hard American embargo, has made five vaccines on its own and has 90% of its people vaccinated? He doesn't know that he's lately zeroed the number of the dead? This small country, at the first appearance of the pandemic wave, sent bridges from doctors and nurses to developed capitalist economies, to Spain and Italy. He sent them drugs, sent them consumables that then, developed systems, used as a means of protecting trash bags. This is the modern world that you admire, a world based on rot, corruption, and that breaks up everything human exists. And we would expect nothing else, in fact, from a minister who has so cynically resorted to anti-communism, when it is known that even from opponents of the socialist system they were talking about the huge achievements that the socialist countries had in recent decades, with the thousands who fled from northern Greece to go to Bulgaria, Romania to find health care at that time. But these are other priest gospels, Minister, for you. What you are interested in is just how the process of health trade is accelerated. So, of course, what we are experiencing now with pandemic is the result of a timeless criminal policy with health trade, but at the same time it also brings the government's seal on how criminally it managed the pandemic. Why did you bet? The individual responsibility. There you put all the money and gamble only with the vaccine, that the vaccine will save the condition by giving it supernatural potential in the vaccine, when we know, of course, that it is a weapon, that it can confront and protect the world, but it is not the only one, because it is also the vaccine you stick to and the vaccine you transmit, but at least you do not have the serious consequences of the invasive. And why do you give him these supernatural capabilities? To undermine it, because in this way you are undermining vaccination, and you are deeply irrational. So irrationalism is the driving axis and this irrationality we have seen not only in your attitude towards the vaccine, for which you are making use of the requirement to proceed to a series of anti-structural manipulations, suspension of work, while those who were not vaccinated, could go to other workplaces that would not have been in contact with a wide audience or an irrational one, which has led you to formulate protocols - tireless for business groups where large businesses have been an outbreak of overtransmission. It's the irrationalism that says in the supermarkets it takes you to get anything to show either a vaccine or a rapid test, and in the tavern you need to show a vaccine to get in and a rapid test is not enough. These are the irrational graphs you make and you turned public hospitals into a system of a disease. We asked you specific questions about a number of hospitals for a number of health centres. You have responded in general. What did you say? That you've done a thousand two hundred ICUs. So we say, when in Greece it takes four thousand ICUs based on the World Health Organisation - so many should have existed in normal conditions, not because of the pandemic - and you have a thousand two hundred. How many of them work, Minister? IDs at the Tower work?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u42	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u43	No, it's not working, Minister. It didn't work the previous period. It's not working because there's no medical staff. Will you tell us, for example, Minister, does Argostoli hospital have a pathologist? No, he doesn't have a pathologist. Is the pathologist a basic specialty and it's an island and it doesn't have one? Will you tell us, Minister, why do the bloodthirsts from Zakynthos need to go to Patras to rehabilitate in the first century in pandemic conditions? Can't their needs be met? We can say that their needs can be met, but you can trade them all. Here, too, are specific and targeted the interventions you have made and we are clearly saying that, through this process of your policy, you will further merchandise health and that the gap between the possibilities that can be faced with a number of modern diseases and the level of treatment will be further widened. And you went out and said some ideologies that the good of health - says - will be provided to everyone and it will be free. Who? A degraded ICU, degraded services, a key package so that the man can't die and so that the working class can make up for its labour force? The main issues, the dentistry exams, the dentistry treatment is free? Isn't it essential for public health? And a number of other things exist. In vitro fertilization isn't a serious matter for new couples? Here, what are the results of commercialisation? That is why we say it will be a very small package that will be provided free of charge for the most degraded issues and the rest will be depending on the Valley. And you're bragging that you're funding health? For primary health care, how much do you give from the regular budget? EUR 128 million. Here's to laugh, literally to laugh. I mean, 10 million a month. Nothing. Not even for operating expenses. And you claimed that it would go to 1.5 billion from the Recovery Fund for three years, when the budget in 2022 was allocated 3.5 billion for the new armaments programme, to get naval equipment to make Greece even more involved and give 1.5 billion for three years through the Recovery Fund? To do what, Minister? To proceed with digitisation, so that public-private partnerships can move forward, so that the entrepreneurs can put 'hot' money through the new projects that you are going to do? Who? Expansions of some clinics in hospitals. Or you grasp about the primary care program, the prognosis and prognosis program, which here there is no condition of primary health care, but all of this will go through various non-governmental organisations and volunteering, without targeted measures and issues. So here is what we are talking about, and here we are talking about this policy, of course, you have a follow-up, a follow-up with the previous governments. You are implementing the European Union's policy that has led to an increasing trade in health and the collapse of public health systems, so that we have the hundreds of dead at European Union level, but also in our country. So here is what the results and consequences of this policy are. And, of course, the next time will be even worse because the new RU will be making it with the same materials that led exactly to this downgraded public health system, which collapsed with the first appearance of pandemic. And from this point of view, we are clearly saying that the criteria for the JRC are the conditions for health work. What do you got? You're saying you don't find any staff to go to work and motivate them? But how is a pathologist going to work in a hospital? So, does that mean he'll do 30 days a month? Are these working conditions to get someone to cover a vacancy? Can the rest of the organogram not be covered, with your hunger wages, beyond the other issues that everyone has to deal with? And from this point of view, the conditions for intensification are characteristic. SYRIZA has abolished the typical daily working time of doctors in order to further intensify the working conditions of healthcare, you have closed the hospitals and you, the New Democracy, and the PASOK of the "Polite", the SYRIZA of "Thorakos", because you want to move on to the best European practices. We say clearly, to keep some money for my dentistry, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u44	Hold on, but you've exhausted your dentistry. Anyway, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u45	Tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u46	There isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u47	But that's what the programme says, Mr President. I got a program here that says twelve protology, six dentology and three tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u48	I know. You're out of your mind, but go ahead. You've got 50% of the time. It's okay, though. I'm telling you to keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u49	We say, therefore, that the people must not have any confidence in government policy and government policy on health issues and that they must fight to protect public health and improve the working conditions of health in the health sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u50	Thank you too, Mr. Karathanasopou. Mr. Skourletis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I really want to acknowledge your sincerity in the field of ideological confrontation and ideological references. Of course, the ideological signal and what you said today may not reflect the views of all the members of the government. If you were to listen to Mr Kaklamani on ANTENNA's television today - if I am not mistaken - it said that there is a need for the private sector to put back at this difficult time and take on COVID incidents, making a description of the situation that was completely different from what you said. Minister, a few days ago - and still today - the first news is the 'Omicon' mutation from Africa. Also, three days ago, in the European Parliament for Africa of 2.5% of vaccinated, inequality - in relation to Europe - of a continent regarding access to vaccination, the Members of your party voted against the European Parliament's proposal to lift the patent. They voted against! And it is this attitude that is the ideological imprint of an extremist neoliberal view that you have presented to us today and you have defended yourself here, as well as the public good of health goods and not the obligation of a state to ensure access to it all. Everyone, because you know, goods can be purchased on the market, when they are paid, and if they have to pay. Is public health such a merchandise? It seems that you are defending this and defending it after the painful experience of the pandemic for Greece, for Europe for the whole world. And you come here to defend the new draft for the EEAS and the need to proceed with the new version of the health system through the PPPs. And you told us "but well, so awesome is a private person who has a machine and puts it in a public hospital to pay this act?" By who? From the state budget who gets it from who? And so, insert the factor of profitability, profit on something that is an obligation of the state that should be removed or as distributed as possible. The role of the private sector must also be complementary. This is the big conclusion from the health crisis in recent years, that there is a need for strong public policies, which you obviously cannot support and can, on the basis of this approach, understand why you did not do what you had to do in the last one and a half years here in our home country. You let things flow on their own, you run behind the facts, you dealt with this case as something temporary. That's how they explain it. Today you have covered Mr. Scarcho who says it is a luxury to invest and spend on the public health system. You've given cover to Mr. Papademitriou, who told us - anyway - horrifying things, raising your hair, that those who enter the ICU are in a stadium before they die. These are by responsible persons of the government majority. When there is a need to convince the world, to go ahead with vaccination, you send contradictory messages, "we're done, we're back to normality, one mile only, return to freedom". However, this case persists. So now, today with the hundreds of people in Thessaloniki, out of the ICU, today we're talking about, what plan do you have? Do you feel the dialect's order, or is there no need? And when we say a requisition, we mean the conditions that today can be applied. Evidently, there will be a compensation, but not three times as much, what you've just done is three times. You are working scandalously in favour of the private sector, so that the private sector can win. So instead of giving a battle, door - to - door vaccination for over sixty-five, where there is the big problem, particularly in various regions of our country, in northern Greece, what are you doing around it? Do you have a plan? Can the current health system needs be addressed by taking the few doctors present in primary health care and taking them to hospitals? Don't you realize that that's how you're weakening pandemic? Because a second conclusion is that in the community's field, you respond and you block the spread of pandemic through a powerful primary health system that you have not done and you are not willing to do so. You put a brake on what the SYRIZA government had started with the great reform of the primary health system through the TOMY. What are you doing for the victims of public transport? We've been telling you for a while. Is there a need? There is even the idea for some elderly people who need to go to pension, go to their doctor, hire a taxi. You cannot see the world as sardines in public transport and then you have the requirement to say "what nice you did!" But you have not chosen a holistic plan to support the public health system. You chose communication and only communication. And you choose, you come here to justify us, because it is absolutely right in your own sense, that health expenditure should be reduced by EUR 820 million, saying 'what to do? If necessary and emergency needs, we will increase them again." But isn't the need extraordinary? But, beyond the emergency, is there not a need to support a weakened health system from the beginning of 2010? Does that not come to a conclusion from Europe as a whole? Because otherwise it was the European health systems twenty and thirty years ago. The pandemic found them because of extreme neoliberalism and expenditure reduction due to the assignment of important parts of the public health system to individuals, who in every way and in every area, beyond health, are defending them. So these are the big problems today and you have not answered anything new, nothing new! So tell us today how many doctors worked before the pandemic in primary health and how many now? You are talking about recruitment, but you are not telling us how many people have left the public health system, how many have left, why they have not tolerated these conditions or because they have retired. And it doesn't even make you think that there is a need to invest in a reliable public health system, which goes first and foremost through the increase in basic wages. You have not adopted the proposal for the inclusion of doctors, those who are in the front line, in heavy and unhealthy. That's very specific. But you knew how to humiliate yourself with applause.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u52	Finish, Mr. Skourlet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u53	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u54	You've taken enough extra time already.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u55	Today, then, there is indeed the need for society to change its way. And I am addressing this - and I am ending with it - to colleagues in the JRC, but also to the rest of the opposition - other than Mr Velopoulos, who has a completely different conception of vaccination issues - by saying first of all to the JRC's colleagues: do not level things up, because you know very well which units that were closed in 2014 have been opened up again in the days of the SYRIZA government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u56	None!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u57	Some people opened up again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u58	Oh, no! None!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u59	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u60	They closed the chest...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u61	Please don't interrupt, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u62	Say, Mr. Karathanasopou, why are you being exposed? People can hear you! But the people in Patrizia know the unit was reopened! The world knows that during the days of SYRIZA a hundred and twenty units of TOMY were opened, as it knows about both half a million uninvasive people who had them outside the public health system by then Minister Georgiadis with legal counsel the current Minister for Health and under more difficult conditions, not in these circumstances, where it is possible not to record health expenditure in budgetary figures.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Skourletis, will you please finish it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u64	I think, then, - and frankly this is my last proposal - that there is a need for the government's negligent negligents of failure to have a social front in favour of a different health system. And in this, colleagues of the JRC, Mera25 and KINAL, all left-wing and progressive forces are in place. It is an obligation towards both our parents and the younger generation and ourselves, towards Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Skourlet. Mr Theocharis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the fifteen fellow Members of the Communist Party of Greece for their question, because they have drafted a question for two and a half thousand words invoked among other things by previous years and by 2019. However, since the title of the question is 'The painful consequences of government health policy', let me ask you whether the JRC colleagues are referring to another government, because with the information you quote, ladies and gentlemen, up to 2019 someone would say that the government you are addressing is the previous, that is, the SYRIZA - ANEL government. I, however, am a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy. For the events of SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, you can address SYRIZA yourself, although I doubt you will find answers to what you are asking. From me you will hear what the New Democracy Government has done in the field of health and not just. So I imagine everyone will agree with me that a few months after the New Democracy took over the rule of the country, the pandemic took over. Today, two years later, all mankind remains besieged by the new krone and its new dangerous mutations. This is the worst health crisis in over a hundred years. This is a fact which is undeniable. Unfortunately, we live a nightmare. Although my health minister, Mr Thanos Ploris, has already quoted the relevant information, I, too, emphasise that we received from the previous government five hundred and fifty-seven beds in the intensive care units of the National Health System. Today we have more than doubled them, bringing up the meth beds near the thousands of three hundred. No matter how fuss and dust are trying to raise the Civic Anti-Population or the CCI around the beds, the numbers are vague. We received five hundred fifty-seven and brought them up to almost three hundred. In addition, we have incorporated more than seven hundred private-sector beds, as has already been explained, either with partnerships or with cheques. In fact, this was done in the context of crisis management. In fact, what is happening is much more essential. It's a turn in the direction of the health system, a turn in prevention. The program "Spyros Doxiadis", which the Minister mentioned, is a real revolution in how we build public health in our country. For example, Mr. Lambroulis referred to the mastography. Indeed, without turning to prevention, we will not be able to achieve satisfactory numbers in the mastography and other examinations that are necessary to maintain public health at the appropriate level. And of course, as exceptional resources should be reduced, because we hope that we will not be here in a constant emergency situation in the next few years, 1.5 billion from the Recovery Fund, warm money from the European Union and national participation, will be backed by the National Health System, as Minister Ploris has already described. A similar noise is made for recruitments. We made fourteen thousand hijackings of health workers. We did not hesitate to go on ordering private doctors' services. But that's just the beginning. Health recruitment in 2022 will cover 29%, almost 1/3 of total appointments. This means that the system will be strengthened by some six thousand new hirings of all grades health officials. What Mr Koutsoubas, and Mr Lambroulis, describes with the anesthetics, but also the Secretary of the KKE, Mr Koutsoubas, on the question of intensifiers, shows precisely that the intensive recruitment rates that we have followed the previous period due to the pandemic, because of the need, have, if you like, reached the limits of the country's own capacity to provide skilled staff. When the Minister for Health and the health system is forced to push doctors into rapid programs, so that they can respond as intensifiers, it means that the country has no more medical staff. This is precisely the reality that the Government of New Democracy and the Ministry of Health have to face. Another subject that was raised with enough tension during today's debate is public health expenditure. I do not believe that you will find another government, at least from the post-policy and here, which has been strengthened on such a large scale, but also with so many fundamental interventions in the health sector and, indeed, while pandemics are carrying out parallel attacks on our national system. I would remind you that only in 2019, that is, the first year with New Democracy in the country's government, the health ministry's expenditure increased by about EUR 200 million compared to 2018, touching the 4 billion. In half the year, that is, we increased the health budget much more than our predecessors did during almost all of their term of office. Subsequently, due to the exceptional pressure caused by the pandemic, health expenditure went to EUR 4.8 billion in 2020 and even more in 2021 to EUR 5.2 billion. For 2022 we budget EUR 5.3 billion. In fact, the state's total health expenditure amounts to EUR 11.7 billion in 2022, a budget of 6.3% of Greece's GDP. Here we need to clarify something very simple: Cost control is presented by a set of JRC as a glossary that cuts costs. What's going on is just going backwards. Cost control is the minimum support for the National Health System and its public health system, because the easiest thing would be to cut the costs out, as they have forgotten in previous years, and to come with emergency measures, with clawback, with cuts and horizontal measures to reduce these costs. At the same time we are trying to promote the vaccination campaign with respect for the individual right of free choice on the one hand, but also with priority on public health on the other. Hence, we are establishing measures that restrict the movements of non-vaccinated citizens and lead them to revise their attitude, to put aside any hesitation and to be vaccinated for their own good, for the sake of their families and Greek society as a whole. The measures protect the invaders. As all intelligent people know well, vaccination may not be the only one, but it is the main means to shield ourselves against pandemic. I did not see that coming from the lips of those who spoke before. There are no political controversies here. We need wisdom, maturity without populism and without regularity. The Government of New Democracy is constantly adapting the measures it takes to encourage non-vaccinated people to do what they need to do so that we can all move out of the dark insecurity tunnel away from the health crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u67	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u68	They do not help the arguments, such as transferring responsibility, what we have heard from Mr Lambroulis. Previously, also, Mr. Nikos Karathanasopoulos spoke of irrationality. The irrationalism is not to explain to everyone that it is not an alternative to any pill, any monoclonal antibody. They're prosthetics in vaccination. We have no choice but to be vaccinated, and in this way we will all be able to win together.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u69	Please, Mr. Theochari, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u70	I shall conclude in two minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u71	You don't have two minutes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, we did not speak to the President of our party, as he was in the JRC, and yet you gave Mr Karathanasopoulos all the time. Over the last three, four weeks, following the implementation of the new measures for the unvaccinated, we have seen a marked increase in the entry of our citizens into the vaccination centres. The measures of the New Republic shall pay off. Five hundred thousand of our fellow citizens in a few days have responded, even a little late, to the call for vaccination. I would point out that more than one million of our fellow citizens have made the third dose and a total of more than seven million have been vaccinated at least with the first dose. From the end of October, over a million two thousand vaccinations have been carried out, and the three hundred twenty-thousand concerned the first dose. A month ago, the vaccines were in 645-65% of the Greek population. Now we're at 75%. All this, ladies and gentlemen, does not happen. The government is vigilant and gives battle without interruption to many and extremely difficult fronts at the same time. We are open, of course, welcome all good-faithful criticism, provided it is constructive and consistent with the spirit of the crisis. This is not the time to create impressions. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy have no time for hollow confrontations. We remain committed to our work on the national interest and the best possible benefit for the Greek people. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Poulas, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the appearance of the coronary pandemic and having spent almost two years in pandemic status, the government has been completely unprepared and still falling asleep in any new outbreak of the pandemic. Many times the policies that followed were contradictory. They cultivated the reassurance and confusion among the citizens, which did not favour the course of vaccination in our country. Even today when we are facing a new contagious mutation of the virus, it seems once again devastated and slowly reflexive, which we hope will not lead to new adventures. We are concerned about the fact that the new "Omicron" mutation can very soon dominate the whole planet and while the first image shows that it does not cause serious illness, yet highlights the importance of universal vaccination not only within the narrow framework of a country, but throughout the whole planet. Vaccine inequality must be stopped and all governments must consult on this and vaccine patents must finally be lifted. Enough on the speculation of multinational pharmaceutical companies. The pandemic found the ESS to suffer from a lack of funds, on the pretext of the fiscal adjustment imposed on the country in the decades of the memorandum, resulting in public health expenditure falling from 7.2% of GDP in 2010 to 4.8%, where it remains to date. While it is important that the opportunity given to us through the Recovery Fund will cause a positive shock to the National Health System, the evidence given by the Government to finance the ESS is disappointing. The fact is that only EUR 317 million is foreseen for a hundred and twenty-year long hospitals and EUR 273 million for primary health care for the same period, from a sum of EUR 70 billion for all the funds. It is very little and insufficient for a substantial change and has nothing to do with the prospect of a new ERC. To date, despite the government's promises, the long-awaited planning of the state of staff for the new ERC has not been made public, for the strengthening of public hospitals with staff, for their real estate upgrades, for the creation of a coherent primary health care network, for the modernisation of the EEAS, for the synergy between university research and medical practice for a long-term pharmaceutical policy. They have not yet dared to touch the issue of the country's health map. Since 1981, the National Health System has been designed to date, the data have changed. The country has moved forward. There are infrastructures that bring health services closer to the citizens. On this basis, I believe that the ERC should be streamlined and adapted to modern needs. To be clear, I do not mean to privatize it, but to redesign it on the basis of the public interest and the modern needs of the citizens. The government after two and a half years of service, all it has done to date is to resort to communication management, to half the truths and 'blocks' which in no case form form part of a structured and integrated public health planning. The same pattern was followed and followed by the pandemic management. Today, with the huge responsibility of the government, the shortcomings of our public hospitals remain large in infrastructure, equipment and, above all, personnel, which is torn old, depraved, with hunger wages, recycled by forced movements from health centres to hospitals and in vaccination centres for the needs of dealing with the pandemic. On the other hand, we are constantly listening to the government's numbering of staff, but we do not see any new and sufficient staff. Meanwhile, surgery is again cut by 80% due to the pandemic, while there is long waiting for patients with acute problems and should be operated immediately. War conditions prevail in all hospitals and especially northern Greece. According to the complaints of hospital doctors, more than a hundred patients are intubated outside the ICU and no one sweats their ears! On the issue of ICUs, as on recruitment, the government plays with numbers. He claims to have increased the IF beds, but reality disguises it. Moreover, the pandemic highlighted the need for a modern and organised plan in primary health care as the first reference of the patient before hospital treatment. Despite all the government's announcements as early as November 2019 that an integrated legislative initiative for organising primary school has been forthcoming, this has so far not been done. Government intentions are unknown, thus being equally unknown and the future of the TOMYAs, their contractors and executives, the institution of the family doctors and the drafting of the medical file, which is included in every government announcement, are equally unknown, but we never see it activated. An important factor for efficient health management is the management of hospital finances. The supply sector in the health sector has been a black hole in uncontrolled costs and financial leaks over time. Although the European Commission in its annual report on health in each country - a member of the European Union stresses the need to implement a central system of health supplies in our country, this has not yet been fully implemented. On the contrary, because of the pandemic and the urgent needs of supply to personal protection and material for detection tests, the derogating provisions for the duration of the pandemic have been introduced, a practice which has been maintained under the government's responsibility so far and on the basis of which several million euros have been commissioned, some of which have proved to be controversial and controversial. It is clear from the above-mentioned situation, in which the National Health System is found after a year and a half of battle with the pandemic, that in support of it a comprehensive political plan is required with respect to the spirit of the original law establishing PASOK in 1983 and with an absolute guarantee of its public character, without pretext, exceptions and consequences. The Greek people are entitled to a new RHS that meets the ever-increasing health needs, focusing on the quality of the services provided and focusing on human beings, but also on the parallel evaluation and rewarding of their staff who supported it in the stone years and in which they deserve much more than a applause. Unfortunately, the government is not moving in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, too. Ms Maria Athanasiou, Parliamentary spokesman for the Greek Solution, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, over the last two years the government's health policy has been focusing on dealing with the health crisis because of the coronary pandemic. There is an outrageous dispersion of an unknown in the medical world of aggressive, transmissible and morbid virus in the community, for which, however, no one wonders where and how it started, with anticipated mutations that cross over each other, with thousands of our intertwined fellow citizens and unfortunately thousands of our fellow citizens deaths. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Unlikewise, this is a global health crisis. But are there countries such as Denmark, Sweden, Norway, France - why not? - who managed to return to normality sooner and to recover or lead to recovery. That is why it is important to ask why Greece has come to count hundreds of deaths perpendicular to the eighteen thousand deaths, while, for 15 days, Greece had so many cases, as France of eighty million. And neither uninvasive health nor uninvasive ones are at stake in general. You know that very well. But you are investing in the account of the so-called "unbelievers' pandemic", trying to blame them, to divide and disorientate society from the real cause, which is summarized in the government's wrong choices, a very problematic view, since it is a fact that everyone is inextricably infected and passed on. You invest in this splitting society with your accomplices the systemic channels that you are feeding uninterruptedly, which through journalists are engaged in a continuous bullying against the inconvenienceless by putting on the press labels "sprayed" in the absence of arguments because it is convenient. With seven and a half thousands of deaths and six hundred permeated, you are tired every day of the government's communication profile and not to give real solutions. In addition, your wrong choices, such as the lack of measures for decongestion in public transport and the lack of improvements in their ventilation, as they are vehicles whose windows do not open. Professor Linou said in her statement that if measures had been taken to dismantle them, we would have had about three thousand deaths less. Three thousand. Not one or two hundred. Three thousand lives could still be here, rejoice their families, continue, create, dream. You know, for us doctors every life counts, it's not numbers. You could have saved people if you had taken steps if the drugs that already exist, like Mr. Schinash told us in an interview recently we had supplied them to our hospitals. There have been contradictions, more characteristic of which is the use of a mask. "The mask doesn't protect" when we didn't have one. "Greatly the mask," when we got it. By way of derogation from the provisions of directly entrusting undertakings of relatives, besties, etc. With regard to the vaccination programme and its management, which was based on the parade of the various doctors from the systemic channels for information, on the "Blue Freedom" slogans that eventually didn't come, and on the early introduction of the green passport, there was a body of mistakes that led to the questioning of it from the world, so that this immunity wall you hoped would not be achieved. Why? Initially because, while observing the virus, scientists concluded that they are seriously ill, they are in need of ICUs and they are losing their lives for people of great age and for people with underlying illnesses - I would remind you that you have called for them to protect younger people during the first incarceration - then your vaccination programme has been a dynamic target for vaccination and these categories, but also for younger people who are not seriously ill. Paradoxical health policies have been adopted, as you did not hesitate to bribe young people with EUR 150 in the summer in order to be vaccinated. And now that the situation in the ERC is getting bored, with delay and unheard of authoritarianism, you are imposing more than sixty years of vaccination, even adopting punishment measures. At the same time, you are obsessed with the application of the mandatory vaccination requirement to health care and the suspension of pay cut-off work to those who do not comply, despite the conclusions that everyone is diseased and transmitting, depriving the ESS of qualified doctors and nurses at this juncture where no one is left over, but there are also tragic deficiencies in infrastructure. And since you know that, you are trying to heal the situation that you have created, either by private doctors' returns or by movements to meet the needs of the already exhausted and economically devalued existing staff of the ERC. You did not even hesitate to allow the inter-surfaced and hesitated services not only to doctors of any speciality, but also to qualified persons with a mere six-month experience, as referred to in Article 93(1) of the Staff Regulations, while you should have served our hospitals with staff. You could have exploited the health crisis as appropriate in the interests of Greek citizens, but you do not. There's a lack of anesthetics. How did you cure her? As far as infrastructure is concerned, at the Atticon Hospital on the basis of complaints that saw the light of publicity recently there are a hundred and twenty patients in a radza, which leads to a large intra-societal dispersion of the coronary and other infections. As regards the IF beds, he admitted Professor of Pneumology in an interview that in the previous pandemic wave hospitals were created from the guilty beds called ICUs, while they did not meet the actual standards, thus increasing mortality. As a typical example, he mentioned the "Lual Hospital", where five beds were baptized and the respirators used were not compatible. At the same time, the Secretary of the OENGE denounced that the ITHs that operate in this way, i.e. baptised ITHs with problematic respirators, amount to two hundred, while Mrs Vice-President confessed that not all operate in the absence of intensive and qualified personnel. What kind of ITH are we got, if we don't have people specializing in managing them? Did you go to the recruitment of pathologists, pneumonologists, doctors with appropriate qualifications and training to take on coronary patients? From the start of your governance, you are bombing us with a number of new organisations: new HEDPY, new HEDPY, EMS. And what's the final benefit to the citizen? And on the other hand, those few sanitary people we've got you on parole. Is that your good governance? Is that your final state? In addition, there are shortcomings in coordination and consultation with an impact on the health care of each citizen. An example is the internal document signed by Ms.Additional, which deals with the reduction of up to 80% of regular surgery at the ERC hospitals. Although the Minister wanted to unload the situation after the reactions of the inflicted bodies, this remains one: The government is not only confusing in the world, which suffers and suffers from serious diseases, but also exploits the public health crisis for the implementation of partnerships with the private sector by opening the door to profit through surgery. You are wrong to believe that the only solution is to privatise each public body, while the relationship between state structures and private interests is the central partitioning point of today's society. You change legal recommendations from organisations, you set up committees, subcommittees, boards, and arrange your "loan" uncovered, squandering meaningless public money, without investing in effective social policies, in this case health policies, without going ahead with the restructuring of the public health system, hospitals and primary health care. Let's not hide, Minister. With so many thousands of deaths and six hundred per day only successful health policies are not implemented by your Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, my colleague. The floor now is now for MEP I of the Eastern Attica of Mera25 Mrs. Apajidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the pandemic, and above all today, which government policy has clearly and clearly failed, we are not tired of repeating that simple and self-evident measures are needed. I will mention three plus two of the most important ones. First, public network for mass free tests for all, vaccinated and non-vaccinated. Because vaccinated ones are transmitting the virus. It needs a pan-Hellenic network of small centres that will carry out massive tests, which can also be carried out in vaccination and after the pandemic stays a dowry in the ESS as the network of primary health care we do not have. Secondly, public doctors need pre-vaccination checks for those who have not been vaccinated and hesitate. This would act as the most immediate and best method of persuading, as hesitants would have the opportunity to see their health status prior to vaccination and to follow it. And thirdly, of course massive recruitment of doctors and nurses, active enhancement of primary health care and increases in ICUs. And, of course, two other self-evident measures are to increase public transport, rather than to fly, Minister, the ball to individual responsibility for wearing double masks and so on. And of course, having fewer students per class in schools. You'll tell us about money tree. But the money tree has been discovered first by you, gentlemen of the government, and there is, but only for repression, for police recruitment, for communication management, to buy out the media with full state money that you get from the taxpayers to corrupt the journalists, just to save companies like "AEGEAN" and to help your friends of the oligarchs. In other words, the repression and propaganda are all that the New Democracy Government can do. That's her answer, whatever the question. Now with accounting terminology, she's thinking of vomiting her failure. While the Government has so far been following the WHO registration system, it is suddenly and unnecessarily considering selecting a United Kingdom system that will bring about an artificial reduction in the dead, creating fictional impressions. Because death doesn't matter, but how it's recorded by the media. Everyone with basic logic will wonder: 'But why does this government not do so? Why does it leave over seventeen thousand people who have died?’ Why has he denounced the amendment we tabled as Mera25 on 3 November 2021, which includes all these self-evident? The answer, unfortunately, is as simple as the measures to be taken and not taken. The answer, gentlemen of the government, is that you are working the pandemic to dismantle public health, for the benefit of your friends oligarchs. Hospitals became monothematics, only for the COVID-19 coronary. Mitsotakis S.A. officially converts the ESS into a system of a disease. As you know, a directive was adopted by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Gaga, which calls on the administrations of public hospitals to cut regular surgery to 80%. This means that patients and non-COVID patients are left at the mercy of the government's clerical friends. They are rich at the expense of patients who are forced to go to the private sector. Allow me to say a few words about our fellow citizens with disabilities. Respect for organised society towards SMEs must be made up of a dual framework of protection: on the one hand, institutional protection against any discrimination and, on the other, unrestrained and unrestrained normalisation of the life of SMEs, with benefits from the state of health, social welfare, decent morality and material living. The "Metsotakis S.A." as well as the sum of the Memorandum Arc are chained to the cheques of the lenders for deregulation and privatization. LEIs, however, need benefits from the state, in this case absolute, free and free of asterisks of access to health. The government of Mr Mitsotakis, on the one hand, admits, but clearly, the collapse of the national health system and, on the other, makes the health crisis an opportunity to strengthen its friends in the private sector. We as a PART25, however, call on the government to charge the entire private health sector of the country with structures and personnel. We call on her to transcend her ideas and stop playing with public health and people's lives in the interests of private interests. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the deadly problem of the COVID-19 coronary is clearly not covered by the falsification of the clinical orders for CIVID cases only. The progressive reconstruction of health that the country needs is required immediately, i.e. private clinics should be required not to contact, but to fully replace non-COVID medical services, which at the moment the HR does not provide, both secondary and primary health services. Private general and specialist doctors also offer corresponding hours of work to the ESS. In the meantime, government ministers compete with each other in provocativeness. Following Mr. Scortsos' incredible statement that there is no study showing that the police are transmitting the coronary, the responsible Minister Theodorikos told Parliament that a 20% of the police officers remain invasive, while MP Babis Papadimitriou described as a pseudoproblem that some patients are invaded outside the ICU. The provocativeness of anticipated ministers and MPs of the government is not accidental. It is precisely because the government has chosen to deceive the ESS and hand it over to individuals, that it only remains for it to ring as scapegoats the uninvasive by investing in the division. But this works as a vicious circle of self - astonishing prophecy. As studies show, for example, the magazine "NATURE", in which countries were only suppressed the citizens did not go to be vaccinated, because the government did not gain their trust, as was the case in Greece. The solution to increase vaccination is not suppression, but persuasiveness and strengthening of the health system. But the truth is that the government wants to have and target the invaders, so that its public can rally against them and not emerge the self-evident questions we and most people out there: why do we not have a network of mass free tests for everyone? Why do we not perpetuate the uninvasive ones in scientific ways, such as pre-invasive control? Why don't we attack private clinics as a whole? Why don't we do mass recruitments for doctors? These and other annoying, self-evident questions, we will continue to ask you questions, to make your lies obvious and to have almost eighteen thousand dead because of your neoliberal ideal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, my colleague. And now we're going to secondary. Mr. Lambroulis has the floor for the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u80	Did they all get their secondarys?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u81	Mr Lambroulis has his time, and so is Mr Karathanasopoulos three minutes, and you will then speak, Minister. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Madam President. We listened carefully to the Minister. I'm starting with this. You have had the time obviously, you have seen our timely question, regardless of what you have answered, which I shall say some things. We put twenty issues in the topical question, but you didn't even answer one. So I repeat this: will you or will you not? Here there are no ‘yes, while...’. Will you or will you not, for example, persecute doctors, nursing staff, workers, all this subsidiary staff that has been hired? This figure you mentioned, if I am not mistaken, so that you do not start here telling us that we are also saying that we are inaccurate, twelve thousand subsidiary staff in all, two thousand subsidiary doctors, etc., this subsidiary staff who needs it - in normal circumstances he had it, why were these deficiencies before COVID, a pandemic - will you permanentize them? They are now experienced and experienced in dealing with incidents, etc. Will you hire them? Yes or no? Will they be permanent? They need the National Health System and the next day of the pandemic, we say, to operate hospitals under normal conditions, as you say. Will you abolish the suspension to return six and a half thousand people who have been suspended since September? At the same time, what about anesthetics? We put this to you as a prospect. Even this. You didn't even mention that. You have developed your anti-communist mind, which, of course, characterizes you, but we have asked you specific questions or asked you if you would like to put the timely question. How will the State ensure the prospect of production - so to speak - of nurses and anaesthetists, of other missing specialties? We put it on the seventh point. Will workplace doctors be developed which are necessary and necessary? It has also emerged from other members of the parliamentary group. Will you develop a hospital in East Attica, which is now a huge need for this region for years? And I'll come to Thessaly, you said before. Will you develop interdisciplinary units with corresponding specificities that will monitor post-medical and post-medical post-therapy in intensive COVID treatment units? Because you know very well, but also the Deputy, who is a doctor, what hospitalization means in a unit. Not only in rehabilitation, which is of course very important, but also in a long-term course to deal with problems arising from CIVID disease and long-term stay in the intensive care unit. Another one. Will you abolish payment of drugs, one euro in the recipe? The 15% that people pay for services at the level of microbiological examinations - which pays in hand from their pocket - or, respectively, health material, treatments and goes by saying. I do not want to go into other things, because you have not answered any of them. I now come to some other issues that you have raised. Look, Minister, we're clear, you're not. You, SYRIZA and all other parties years now, not now, over time, if you want, when you say health benefits to the people for free, you mean through payment from the insurance funds. Excuse me, the insurance funds, who pays them? See in the EEA budget - you know him, we don't have to tell you - a very minimal, negligible amount now is State funding. All of this, about five, if I'm not mistaken, billions that EEAS has to manage are workers' money and I would remind you that since 2015, 750,000,000 euros have been withholding from pensioners 6% on main and supplementary pensions. This money you now come to manage and you say 'I give you free benefits', but how? With a basic package of hospitals, from supposedly public health, and the rest will be called to pay for it. This has been the direction and strategy which has been in place for many years, with the responsibility of all governments, an independent management mix, you are serving all governments. And you now and before, SYRIZA, PASOK and go saying. What was the direction? Strengthening business activity in hospitals. Look at the bill that we've been discussing in the committees for the EMCDDA these days. What's E.R.D.? Is this not a tool in the direction of commercialising the services of public hospitals and, of course, a tool to facilitate, in an economy of large business groups, in medical equipment, medicines and go by saying? In this direction, you and SYRIZA have also put together or alternating, taking each other's spoon, a number of such tools in the direction of strengthening this direction of marketing public health units. I may be wrong, but 90 million or someplace there - about 100 million - is the payment of patients to the afternoon hospitals. Is it a public hospital in his sense of free? I don't want to say it for any more. So don't tell us here that you care about public interest or public health. If you cared about public health, you would have cared for years now and you - because the same government is changing, the faces change, the policies are the same - and the previous governments will strengthen the health system and the hospitals, but above all primary health care. You come from this step - we know it - to tell us that you will also make use of 1.5 billion from the Recovery Fund, when primary health care is broken at the same time. You know that, but you're mocking and feeding the people of fumara. Why do you call them? They are referred to as 'actions'. The 1.5 billion for three years will be actions. After the three years, what will it be? We're going to find another fund? With what infrastructure and with what staff will these actions be implemented? A health system should be clearly and firmly targeted, with emphasis on prevention - in all its grades and at primary level - on these issues of cancer prevention and go on saying - we do not need to mention them - but also to address the chronic incidents to be its priority to highlighting and resolving such issues. But that is a cost to the system you serve. This does not allow this system, which is why the funding of the public health system in primary and, in general, the whole health system has reached these minimum amounts. Staff are declining and replaced by staff with all this symphony of industrial relations. Really, these twelve thousand that you say, like over time, fixed-term subsidiarys, contractors, all of them from where they were paid? From the hospital revenues. That's it, isn't it? The assistant doctor from where is he paid? If the hospital doesn't have to prove that I have money to get ten, fifteen, twenty medical assistants, which I think they need, if I don't prove to the government in question, the ministry in question that he has the financial capacity to hire them, he doesn't hire them. That's the tactic. And what are you doing? Supervision. You share positions and specialties, but the point is who's paying. The hospitals, where are they going to find them? From the EEA, which is the contributions of the insured, or directly from the payments of the people. So I also know how to manage, with foreign liquor, and even sell a bubble that I offer with my public health policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u83	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u84	I shall conclude with that, Madam President. We can say more here. You said about Larissa and Thessaly. Occasionally they leave and go to other hospitals invigorated. A moment ago, my colleague, an anaesthetic, accompanied the position of this anestheticist, who would cover it with the enormous shortages of staff? General Hospital of Larissa, you can see. At the moment, the unit and the MFF are fully occupied with COVID incidents. So he's digging a heart attack, where are you taking it? In private? Do you know very well in private what MFF he's got? I'm telling you, Larissa. You know? Yeah. The numbers say nothing. The issue is about the quality of services and the possibility of providing such services at such a level. They leave incidents from hospitals in Larissa and go to these beds that are double-paid by EOPYY, but leave when they are now just before leaving the hospital. That's the story. That is why we say, when we say "cheque", say free requisition of all major clinics, of all major medical centers, of all beds, of all staff. Of course it will be compensated as it needs to be compensated, with the wages, etc., and materials, consumables, whatever is necessary, the state will guarantee them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Comrade, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u86	I shall close, Madam President, from this point of view. Because he made an effort to refer to an ideological level of confrontation, etc. All right, his right. But I will tell you this: why are we really saying that this system you are serving, and you and the others, with any variations you make, are barbaric and what is the answer to it? The answer was given in the 1930s, with an article on the substance of the Soviet health system and the article was published in 1937, twenty years after the socialist October Revolution. Who was that? Henry Sigerist, who was the top medical historian from 1932 to 1947, was the director of the Institute of History of Medical University John Hopkins. You know that. It is even considered a leading university hospital in the United States. So what does he say in this article that I can't read all of it? Selected I will tell you this: it says that the Soviet Union was all - in 1937 - the first country to attempt to socialise medicine, the first country to protect the health of all the people as an exclusive obligation of the state and the conclusion is that what has been done in just twenty years in the Soviet Union is the beginning of a new period for the history of medicine. Everything that has been accomplished so far, in five thousand years of the history of medicine, represents only the first period of its history, the period of therapeutic medicine. Now, a new era, the era of preventive medicine, has begun in the Soviet Union. 1937. So barbarism or socialism. Let the people choose.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party, Mr Karathanasopoulos, has the floor for a second time for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u88	Minister, do you know today's decision of the 4th Minister of Health, Macedonia - Thrace? What does she say? Suspension of emergency - not regular, emergency - surgery due to the inability of anesthesiological coverage at the "Hippokrate" Hospital of Thessaloniki. Why? Because in Third Wing Surgery, they're 12 intubated with COVID. It is the adequacy of the ICU beds, only at the Hippocrates Hospital are twelve intangible in the hospitals of the third building of surgery in his surgery, thus stopping all emergency surgery. What's all about? Only two anaesthetics in the 1st building in cases where their lives are seriously at risk to perform surgery. That's the picture. We, Minister, what did we say? We're talking about ordering the private system. You and the other parties don't do a requisition, bazaars do, tie up with the clinical authorities, and any beds you've been awarded are with the uninjurious always. So the effect of the pandemic period is to have increased over the debris of the public hospital, the business of private hospitals. So we say without compensation for the entire hospital and hospital care unit, so that full medical care can be provided. Second issue: From 2012 until today, seven thousand beds have been lost by public hospitals. This is the result of the closure of hospitals and of the mergers of the clinical and coexistence of the New Democracy - PASOK and the coexistence of SYRIZA - ANEL, which were closed by infectious and chest hospitals in Patras, the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence. In Patisia, said by the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, the hospital was turned into a health centre and this is confirmed by the same policy. The New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Movement of Change in Trade, for this very reason it is not difficult for SYRIZA to make calls at the beginning for a pandemic silhouette, then for a Minister of Health for joint acceptance and lately for a committee of experts with the Government. The third issue I want to raise, Madam President, is what will be the next day, Minister. The new ESS will lead to even greater trade in health, will lead to new abolitions and mergers of hospitals and of clinics. Will the Amalada Hospital close, Minister? How many openings have the ministers made of the new wing of Amaliada Hospital? The new wing has never worked and the modern CT scan is still in a cellophane. Lexouri Hospital? What's his luck? Thus, the new ERC will lead to new abolitions of hospitals and mergers of clinics. The use of PPPs will further increase the business function and activity of hospitals and the result will be an even greater burden on the people, whether directly, by participating in medicines, hospitals, examinations, or indirectly, as a taxpayer and insured. And the tool of greater merchandise is exactly what you call'similarity of health expenditure'. This rationalisation has literally put off private spending on medicines. From 2012 until now, state expenditure on the medicine has decreased by 50% and individual expenditure on the medicine has increased by 52.8%. This logic of rationalisation has led to unprescribed drugs, which have led to an increase in the participation of the world, in laboratory tests, has led to a retention rate for the health care sector in supplementary pensions and an increase in the percentage of basic pensions. These are the results and, of course, the new ERC will lead to new shifts in labour relations. That is why we are literally saying that what is needed today is not only that there must be no tolerance to government policy, but that, on the contrary, the people must take the case in their hands and in public health and protect public health, but above all to open up the way of prospect, which is the one that will eliminate the enormous contradiction between the possibilities of science today and the conditions of health care of the vast majority of our country's people and the people of the rest of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Health now has the floor, Mr Ploris.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. So after the initial placement took place, we come back and repeat the same things. I heard the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman again starting and saying: "Since you have a problem with the ICM, do your job." And I say it again, and you cannot give an argument, and you cannot say that the whole set of private sector ICU beds is in the management of the EAW. So let us finish one - one thing. So IF beds that we don't get from the private sector are unstable, it's not true. All, when there is an incident of the ESS and there is an empty bed in the private sector, we use it. This has been done with a memorandum of cooperation, which already exists since the first phase and has been updated. Let's go to the general beds, simple and non-substantiated. I also heard Merra25 say: 'not only COVID incidents, and no COVID'. Yeah, that's what we do and we take the beds where we need them. I have heard the following thing, which has not been said so far: ordering all the clinics that exist and all the beds, that is, even those we do not need. So we should go check them out and then pay them every day for these beds. What are we doing? And here you described what you said with the Hippocrates and I will answer you immediately. So how does this government work? It gives the opportunity when the surgery cannot be performed and says the "Hupperate" that it cannot perform surgery on this day. Did the surgery happen or didn't it happen? They're done. Surgery was sent to the private structures we have taken the beds for the public without the employee's involvement. This was therefore the function of the cooperation we are talking about. When there is one inability to send another State to another State, if it cannot serve another State, we have at the moment kept a number of beds that we need either in COVID or in non-COVID incidents. [[Noise from the wing of the JRC]] In Thessaloniki there are two hundred COVID beds and sixty-five, sixty-seven non-COVID beds. And when we say non COVID what is it? That hospitals over there are pressurized, sent, and there is no charge on the insured person, there is no burden on the patient. For Thessaly, respectively, there are more COVID beds we have - if I'm not mistaken, it's about the two-five COVID beds - and there's another hundred, a hundred, twenty non COVID for the same reason. This model will work and anywhere else it needs, when pressed and depending on how the systems are pressed. There is a strange criticism here from both sides. On the one hand, I can hear the criticism 'get the order'. You tell them, "But I've taken the beds and used them, the ICUs as a whole, the private beds where I need them." Then started a second course of argument: "Yes, but you get them for simple surgery and you don't get them for COVID." We respond: We definitely take for COVID - and we have these beds - but we also take them for non-COVID surgery, because when you do a public clinic, you give it more dynamic to have COVID incidents to serve, something needs to be done. Then the criticism I heard today begins. ‘Take them for non COVID’. But we've got them for non COVID. The whole frame works. If our disagreement is whether someone, when providing service, will be paid or not paid, forgive me, but here we have clearly said that they will be paid. And order you did, you should cover the CEN set by EOPY, including the patient's involvement and including the doctors. Why would I let you know that the N.C.E.U.D.'s what he's doing? In the CENs there is a sum, a contribution that the patient pays, and within that amount, medical staff are not inside. So, when you order, after you have calculated that this is the specific amount, you should cover the entire CEN without the patient’s participation and, respectively, pay the doctors who will provide the service. So this is what we pay for in private clinics too, this is the agreement and we operate where we can. And in Athens if the situation is pressed even further, and we need beds, we'll take them. So the piece of beds is done. You're saying I didn't answer your questions. Didn't I answer you about the PPPs? In your questions were PPPs and I told you, yes, we'll proceed to PPPs. Didn't I answer you about the part of the suspensions? Haven't we answered? The Government has limited the suspension to one particular category: medical, nursing and service providers in groups that are vulnerable. There will remain this measure of suspension. As long as there is a need for this pandemic, this is not going to change, and that is why an extension was made by the end of December. In fact, if necessary, there will be a further extension. I have answered all the issues you have and have to deal with with the EEAS, with the contributions you are saying. And I say to you that these are the participations that exist and if quality criteria are applied, then they too will be able to be reduced. Because on the basis of the quality criteria, when we know who is providing quality services, and when the amount of compensation is reduced on the basis of the quality criteria, or when participation is eliminated, it will also be reduced. Let me just say to you: When an operation costs EUR 200 and will be deemed to be on the basis of the quality criteria it does not meet the requirements and leaves the system - it will not be provided by the provider who does not fulfil it - if the amount is reduced, respectively, it will be reduced and what the patient will put. So it's for the patient's benefit what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u91	To abolish for the benefit of the patient...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u92	You guys, watch out for another controversy you've got...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u93	People can't go to public hospitals. He goes to private, and he pays...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u95	Here, then, I have a big question: Since the Communist Party of Greece at its base only wants a state health system - that's what you want, only state-run - why does it care what happens with private providers, about clawback and all that you're putting on me from time to time and how it will work? You should normally say, in order to be consistent with your ideology, "cut contracts with the entire private sector and only have public structures".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u96	You don't keep an eye on what the JRC says...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u97	That's what you should say. And that's what you're actually saying. So, what do you care how we go to regulate the private health framework since you don't believe in private health and are you against?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u98	Why don't you answer everything...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u99	But I told you clearly. That's it. I'm answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u101	Subscribing to medicines: Participations in medicines are as they exist. In fact, in order not to go from generic to an alternative generic medicine and go to the original, there is a specific amount that is present and is rightly paid since the public can compensate for treatment with generic. You'll see the provisions on the medicine we bring tomorrow. For the first time, we come and make companies come to negotiate in terms of the lowest price we have in the European Union and the consumption of medicines that we have in the European Union and are forced to give the discounts they have to pay. And listen, ladies and gentlemen, because we are often talking about social policy and that this social policy works to disperse public money. Uninsured: it has been given - and the Government of New Democracy has given it - access to the medicines of the uninsured. This expenditure was at 120,000, 130,000,000 euros. When this is suddenly assumed to be socially provided, while it should be done in public structures, it has gone to private individuals, this expenditure is EUR 310,000 000. There is currently a reference to AMKA where there is no residence in Greece. There is no residence in Greece and medicines are prescribed. So, is that social policy for you, or is it dismantling public money and social policy to take his medicine uninsured under the terms he takes and without participation when he needs it, but not some who are not uninsured or those who use AMKA of the uninsured person to write some other medicines not to take them? So these policies are social. It is social policies that respect the money of the Greek taxpayer. You even criticised the bill that we have tomorrow for supplies. We are talking about central procedures as 40%. So also in the debate we had with Mr Spiritual is the possibility of competitive procedures in hospitals too. But what argument did you have here? You say, "But if the competitions are too large, then they go over there where the big companies and monopolies exist." So, tell me, do you have a argument here right now that if you can make a central public contest...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u102	You're twisting what I said. Say what you want. I said you're using it as a tool.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u103	So I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u104	Don't be silly!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u105	Mr Colleague, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u106	Let me talk. So here you have to tell me in a clear way: Do you prefer that there should be competitions and that you should pay more public money in a sense that everyone should get from the public or whether the public finds a low price somewhere in particular, take it and secure the Greek taxpayer's money? Because you said it before. What is happening at the moment on the health side, the Greek taxpayer pays it in any way. And the subsidiary, once again, come to the Ministry of Health or to the regions where they support regions. Why are hospital budgets from where are they from? Where are these budgets paid from? It's one of the extraordinary grants that the Ministry and the EEAY, which is the Greek insured's money. And in order to complete the process, because this has been said once again and we are talking about mutations, vaccines, vaccination coverage, to make it clear: the capitalist countries you are talking about have also taken care of their populations with vaccination. They also do not end up in vaccines and are thrown away, because vaccines are given by the Western countries which have a problem. And Greece has given over one and a half million vaccines paid by the Greek taxpayer in order to go to these areas you say. And European solidarity on this issue is much larger, much larger than the other countries you are talking about. Because the fact that the European taxpayer pays money and part of these vaccines he has given them to other countries shows precisely Europe's perception of these issues. Because - to complete this too, because it is said - what we have said at times and said today, and the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman - was also said by other aspects - for the famous patent, they themselves had said at the time that the style and all this technology to be completed will take months. Even now that we're talking, it wouldn't have been completed, no matter what. Because it's not a problem of copyright and patent. It is a problem of mass production to be able to take place in vaccines, for example, which is not present in the pills, which will come out and will be much easier in the process. So with these thoughts, we tell you all the programming we are planning, honestly. This programming will be implemented because it is in favour of the Greek insured person and the Greek patient.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on No 4/2/11-2021 is adjourned on the subject: 'The painful consequences of government policy on health'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that the Secretary-General of Social and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the topical and urgent questions to be discussed are as follows: Questions Nos 198/18-11-2021 and 208/22-11-2021 will be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr. Ploris. The Question No 212/22-11-2021 will be answered by the Minister of the Interior, Mr Mavroudi Voridis. The question, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis. The question, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Theodoros Skylakakis. And the question under number 203/18-11-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Eleftherios Aegeanakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to keep our time, because we are already out of programme. We enter the debate of the third under No 208/22-11-2021 on the second time question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Emmanuel Synthraki, on the subject: "The serious problems caused by thousands of residents and workers in the region by the subservient of the Centre for the Health of the Municipality of Faistos Crete". The question will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr Athanasios Ploris. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to ask your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the Moires Health Center of the Municipality of Faistos with few staff, working under intensification conditions, strives to meet the needs of the region with more than fifty thousand inhabitants of all ages, workers, migrant workers of land, without an increase in the population with tourism during the summer months. There are dozens of schools with thousands of pupils, pre-school structures and large workplaces, for example packings, and unfortunately there are a lot of road accidents. In direct contrast, however, with the great needs, the major shortages of medical and other staff remain, serious subsidization to a centre that is most visited throughout the country, with the responsibility of the current government and, of course, of all governments backwards. Indicatively, regional hospitals, due to subsistence of the health centre, are in operation. The equipment it has is essential for the emergency cases - cardiographer, monitor portable monitor, defibrillator - and regular clinics are just prescribing offices alone. There is no means of transport for domestic vaccinations for the Coronovirus in the villages and use the water supply of the municipality. In radiology, while having modern digital radiology and ultrasound, there is only one radiologist that is not sufficient to meet needs. For the specialized needs of thousands of children, a pediatrician serves. The cardiologist doesn't even have a medical establishment organized as a cardiologist, and he shares the ultrasound with the radiologist. The microbiological laboratory that existed before the establishment of the TOMY, does not exist, the analysts left and only bleedings take place and the samples are sent to the hospital. Hypotypically equipped for many incidents, such as surgical, orthopaedic, ophthalmological, otorinolaryngics, which cannot be served, and the world is going for this very reason to hospitals or the private body. The result is not to cover the elementary ones, such as the assessment of an exceptional incident. There are serious problems with the crossings, which are carried out with a few health care professionals, with what this entails in the operation or the possibility of covering two simultaneous incidents from the EAW, with risks to human life. Without an exaggeration, eight out of ten incidents are sent to Heraklion Hospital at a distance of fifty two kilometers. There is also a question with the building. His condition is particularly bad. Half of the health centre has been demolished for several years, with the result that there is no security for the personnel using these spaces. There are problems with air conditioning, with lack of cleanliness, with carelessness. The list is innumerable. So we ask you, Minister, what measures the government intends to take to meet the needs of medical, nursing and other staff at the Center for Disease Health, with massive recruitment of permanent staff, permanentisation of subsidiary contractors of all specialities and to resolve issues of safe housing in the building and full equipment with state funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u110	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Synatiakis, to begin with on the subject of the building. Indeed, there is a chronic problem, for which the administration of the 7th Health Region has taken the necessary steps to build a modern building on a plot granted for this purpose by the Municipality of Faistos. In the intervening period and until the building takes place, there is a constant upgrading of the logistics infrastructure, and a further EUR 71,000 was provided for the upgrading of the physiotherapy and the replacement of three hospital beds. As you will know, it has joined the Operational Programme of Crete for a number of supplies of materials, machinery and in 2022 the supply of a mastograph has been envisaged, and further improvement of logistical infrastructure has also been proposed through financial instruments. From there on, in this particular structure, of the elements given to us by the agency, the total force of the staff is eighty-three people, where they are fifty permanent and thirty-three auxiliary staff. Since October 2019, four doctors - two general doctors, one cardiology, one radiology - and an ancillary doctor, namely five doctors in total, have been recruited to the other by eighteen permanent officials and two assistants. In this direction, therefore, there is an attempt to support the logistics infrastructure, as far as possible, until the complete construction of a plot, which has been indicated. Staff shall be employed on the basis of the needs assigned. Referring to the number of tests, which you say - to understand the intensity that exists - while it was around sixty thousand in 2019 and fifty-five thousand in 2020, for the first six months of 2021 it has reached sixty thousand. Similarly, the samples that have been transported in order to control the other hospitals, at the moment, in the first seven months, are at the hundreds of forty thousand, compared with two hundred thirteen. So the pressure is too high in this structure and has been strengthened by staff and any other proposal that we are being made by the OSH for aid is accepted. The logistics infrastructure, which is the big and the chronic problem, will be solved by the complete construction of a building which has been made available. In any case, as I have said with the FPI that existed and with the 2022 programme, there will be an upgrade of the logistics infrastructure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u113	In relation to the building, Mr. Minister, what Mr. Xanthos said in 2016, to a timely question I had asked as a parliamentarian about the building, exactly the same caramboon answer you are now giving. It is the permanent inclination, the same answer, the same cardbon, of all governments. And it's evolved in the bridge of Arta. Good, and if you build it on the new plot, whenever it's made, then what happens then? You'll do, he says, restoration etc. Do it. Why don't you do it all these years. Why should you be believers now that you say so? Second, before the Law of Georgiadis in 2014, with the accreditation act of the 7th Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Others. for Moires Health Center, they served in this thirteen general doctors, a pediatrician and thirty-five nurses and other staff. Then there were ten empty posts of doctors and fourteen nurses and other staff. From 2014 until today, the situation has not changed at all in permanent staff, beyond two general doctors, one cardiologist and one radiologist. Today, under these conditions and under conditions of pandemic with increasingly growing health needs and to talk about the proper functioning of a health centre such as Moires should be hired at least seven doctors to cover all posts without having to close regional medical offices. Primary health care - and we have said it before in the JRC's question - is not what it should be today, that is to say it should only cover prescribing and first aid. For example, does the monitoring of the long-term sufferers not require organisation, so that the citizen can have it where he lives and at home? So in a region such as the Centre for the Health of Moires, with a reference population of more than 50 000 - I shall keep saying this - there is a need for other specialities in the context of a well-organised and interconnected unit of hospitals rather than for the on-calls to come out. The existence on a daily basis of other specialties, in addition to general medicine, such as the cardiologist, requires the organization, the equipment of a suitable space instantly to enable it to function. Without this and without the support of other health professionals, such as social workers, health visitors, administrative support, only a doctor with the title of specialty cannot actually offer. Let me put it - if you like - and a more general issue. You, of course, are in the process of closing, shrinking, merging hospitals. Studies have shown, however, the need for a hospital to be set up in the area. It's not only the over fifty thousand people in the health center's radius of responsibility. Calculate - pay attention to - ten thousand economic migrants - in their overwhelming majority of men living in tragic conditions, which result in poor hygiene and makes them vulnerable to all kinds of illnesses mainly in infections and parasites, but who often fall victim to abuse. Add the tourists who visit the area every year. Also, the area serves remote areas, where people of very high age live and need resident care. It is necessary to create conditions for home visits of doctors or nurses to avoid calls in the EAW. There are problems with alcohol in the area, traffic, low level of education. In many cases, it is necessary to create information and awareness networks in consultation with municipalities and schools and much more. And finally, there is the issue of the EMCDDA. Already, you have in your hands a report by the Workshop Association of Moires Health Center that raises serious issues for the programme announced by the EKAV Heraklion regarding the crew of ambulances serving at the Centre for the Health of Moires and ask that all necessary measures be taken to ensure the proper functioning of the Health Centre and the protection of the health of the residents. And that's what you're gonna have to answer to us about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Synthyakis, the fact that in 2016 Mr. Xanthos answered you with the same content, obviously, I am not responsible if Mr. Xanthos did not do anything to solve the matter. I will not take on the political responsibility of Mr Xanthos for the answers he gives. I tell you specific things, that the final solution to the problem will be when on the plot that has been indicated by the Municipality of Phaistos the building of the new building will be built. But until then - I said specifically - the physicotherapist equipment has been upgraded, the replacement of three hospital beds, the hemorrhaging laboratory equipment and the information infrastructure. At the same time, in what is running now, the OP of Crete provides for the supply of a vertical wet sterilisation furnace and a colored ultrasound cardiological echoographer. So now that's what they're running. At the same time, 2020-2022 provides for the supply of a mastograph. And generally, in 2020-2022, a number of actions have been proposed to upgrade the logistics infrastructure. So in this building as they are trying to take action to be as functional as possible. In the staff, as I told you, since October 2019, there have been five doctors and twenty other medical staff hired. Thus, an attempt had been made to serve and even the notices that have come out, others have become and have taken up the positions and positions that have come to be barren. That is why we have made the widest debate about the incentives that need to exist so that staff can also be employed in these areas. From there on you have set a wider framework for primary schooling. Within primary care there is a significant line from the Recovery Fund, which is close to 250 million euros, and its total has to do with development structures in logistics infrastructure and buildings for all these primary care units, and therefore on the map on which there will be and will relate to primary and secondary schools and actions that will upgrade all health centres, all TOMY and all the primary structures that exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Minister. We continue with the fourth question under number 198/18-11-2021 of the Second Cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dionysios - Charalambos Kalamaianos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Without clinical METH Elia within the health crisis." The Minister for Health, Mr. Plearis, will also answer. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you are well aware that unfortunately the hospitals of Elijah are a typical example of the deterioration and abandonment that your Government reserves in the public health system. Health personnel are actually making superhuman efforts to cope with it. Sadly, however, you have left them alone. And what I'm saying is not words of opposition, but they're documented. In July 2019, Minister, we were just out of budgetary suffocation and there was no pandemic. Nevertheless, our hospitals were operational. They were running and inventing. Today, in 2021, with the pandemic reaping, the hospitals of Elijah are unfortunately in a state of disintegration with reduced quality of health services, mainly due to a great lack of staff and I say the following: In July 2019 the Tower Intensive Treatment Unit had five permanent doctors. A few months ago two doctors left because they took part in a contract and were placed in a central hospital in Athens, because you gave them that opportunity. Now, at the intensive care unit at the Tower Hospital, they are serving only two doctors and some others are coming in that hospital from other prefectures or with other specialties from the same hospital. The pathological clinic in 2019 had four pathologists. Right now he has a pathologist and again heal pathologists from other hospitals from other prefectures and has huge problems. The same is true of the Amalada Hospital, which in 2019, in July, operated and invented. It's just been converted into a vaccination center right now. The Hospital of Krestena has major problems, as well as the Centers for Health of Gaston, Andritsina, Vardas, Zacharos, who have many problems. Minister, as the citizens of Elijah feel extremely bad and we fight for this picture of public hospitals. We must never forget that we are talking about people's health and life. Is this why we ask you what you will do to ensure the smooth, adequate, decent and proper hospitalization and operation of Elias’ nursing units? And in particular, how will the ICU and the pathological clinic work? Are you going to proclaim the posts - all the vacant posts that are organic - to be paid? What kind of departure counter are you going to give?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Kalamatiano, when you asked the question, it was obviously too time-consuming with the publications that were in existence on the subject of the alleged closure of the clinical ITH at the Tower. In fact, Mr Katrinis also answered last week, where he was automatically asked that there is no question of the ITH of Tower closing down. There were the publications, there was a temporary movement of a certain doctor to strengthen the General Hospital of Agios Andreas in Patras, because they were the CIVID beds that wanted aid, and at that time the ITH beds were not pressed in Elia. However, we clearly said that this was something temporary. There was no talk at all of it closing. I had immediately contacted the Deputy Chief of State that confirmed me to this effect and normally operated Ilia's Clinics. You are putting on a problem that is a reality. The reality is - as you know - that for this structure all the post notices have come out and some of them have been barren or there has been a transition of the world as soon as the notices have been made to other hospitals. As many times as it takes in barren places, the notices will come out. The point is, however, that these positions are covered and it really is impressive that they are not covered even in Elias. You realise - and even though you are not from the other regions - that the problem is even greater in areas outside the mainland of Greece. But it seems to me that even in Elijah there are these problems and they come out of barren positions. We are going to publish these positions. In any case, it has opened up an entire debate with specific incentives which can be given to doctors, so that the regions which do not have the attraction of doctors who wish to have specific incentives either to the economic level or to other incentives which the debate has begun in both the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee of the Regions and to the Committee of the Regions can reach a framework which the Deputy Minister, Mrs Gaga, is working on, so that there is a clear framework of overall incentives. But for the particular thing you're saying, there's no question that the ITH beds will not work at the Tower. The issue has been resolved mainly by the publications. The cover will necessarily be covered by the institutions as long as there is no response to the positions which have been found to have been barren. From there, beyond the pressure that exists, there is no case - although the specific specialities are very necessary to operate the growth of the three hundred ICU beds throughout Greece - to have ICU beds that will not work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u121	Minister, you are well aware that by moving doctors from other prefectures with on-calls that these doctors, who do not follow the follow-up of the incidents, who are not above the patient to know their history and have followed him as he should, with movements from other prefectures, with such solutions that are actually on the leg, we do not have effective and decent patient care. This is where we need specific solutions. You understand the citizens are fighting. We are in a situation that we really say doesn't make a person sick in Elias, because it will immediately be transferred to another hospital, to Patras or elsewhere. These solutions are leg solutions. It takes concrete action here - you have had two years to do it - that is to say take concrete action two years now that the pandemic and the whole of Europe and everywhere and all the states have strengthened public health systems. You didn't. We come now after two years to say how we will give incentives if we give incentives and you are still discussing it. But why are you talking about it? This is where you say there's been notices coming out. When an invitation is made for two or three pathologists in a clinic that has only one, it is obvious that it is not enough. In intensive places when you make a comprehensive notice both at central hospitals and at regional, what do you say? You tell the interns who are in the district hospitals to go downtown. Is that a solution? In the province, in the district, how will the hospitals be deployed? So we are saying and suggesting specific things, for a long time now, that we should not talk about it anymore. They need action. Give incentives. You say Elias is a continental county, but unfortunately you see that it doesn't work. The notices are proclaimed barren, the places and hospitals are not paid. The last year and a half have sixteen doctors left Elijah, perhaps more, without any permanent. How will they continue to work? What do you actually say? A whole county of sixty thousand inhabitants won't have hospitals? Will the ICU not function as it should work? Are they going to Patras? Is that a solution? All the citizens of Elijah are asking for solutions. No, 'we'll see', 'we'll motivate', 'we'll make the area wilderness, etc.'. Decisions and actions are needed. It's been two years. Nothing's happened. It's happening now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Callammaine, where all the notices came out. Unfortunately, it has not been given for too many years, just as it has not been given throughout your administration. Because if there were motives at that time, the positions could have come out. You are now talking about a case where a government came and the moment the pandemic began and operated the whole of the health system in terms of the management of the pandemic. Nevertheless, especially for Elias in 2020, we have taken six positions in a contract notice plus another, seven and 2021 have come out twelve and ten. The latter came out in September and is under way to fill a number of positions that exist. There has also been subsidiary staff. We have not left any of the positions that have been indicated to us to put in a contract notice to cover it. It shall be covered by ancillary staff and, respectively, by transfers made. In fact, at the moment, we are operating as an overall health region and obviously the pandemic conditions have created the conditions of operation. In this context, I am telling you and the difficulties you have mentioned, you cannot say that. You see, the papers said the IFs were closing. Eventually the ITHs didn't close. The ICUs are operating again, and the people of Elijah receive the rightful care. In addition to the wider debate that will take place, of course, there will also be incentives, but all efforts are already being made to ensure that the tower hospital remains committed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Minister. Now we will discuss the first question with number 395/18-10-2021 in the circle of petitions - questions by MP I Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christoforou Vernardakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Extreme deterioration of the capital's traffic problem". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u125	Minister, you will surely know that the traffic issue in the historic center of Athens, but also in the center of Athens, has reached a point that historically is the worst it could be. Obviously, there are many reasons here. Of course we have the history of the urban development of the Attica basin by overconcentrating productive infrastructures as it has been historically done, but this is a story that will in any case be chasing us over time. But we have been here over the last two years - especially in the last two years - an increase in this situation. One would expect that the government would have intervened more maturely and more effectively against this major social issue. The reasons for this deterioration are the fact that social media are currently at the worst level of service provision. I do not need to tell you what is happening on the subway, suburban, tram, bus and so on. Secondly, no strong measures have been taken to improve infrastructure in the last two years in central Athens, despite the fact that the two lockdowns have given us this opportunity. Third matter. The center of Athens has turned into an endless parking lot. There are currently no pedestrians, no main roads that are not occupied by parked cars. I would like a comment specifically on this point. It has aggravated the problem that we have an illegal occupation of vital space from too many hotels in the center of Athens. I would really like a special comment on this point. We also have interventions by the Municipality of Athens in this whole situation, which make the problem even worse. It is the big issue with the University and the "big walk". I would also like to make a comment here, on your part, on this. And of course it's been going on lately, I don't know how many months the reconstruction once again of the pedestrian street at the bottom of the Syntagma square. In any case, we have an outdated and saturated road network which cannot deliver. We have an increase in congestion. We have an inevitable diffusion of the traffic problem in all the neighborhoods of the perimeter of Athens. We have a rise in the new traffic of cars, and that is why all the estimates of specialists, transporters and citymen are saying that the situation will obviously become intolerable next time. It is already unbearable, but how unbearable can it be and where is this pessimistic assessment of experts based? I would therefore like to ask whether there is any planning of the Ministry for this major issue concerning the people of Athens and especially the centre. Do we have any immediate measures, some medium-term measures and some long-term measures? Are we intervening with the infrastructure? I would like to know what the strategy is to follow the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Colleague, I should like to begin with a point. From the text of your question, which is signed by several of your colleagues from the Civilian Opposition Party and from the questions you ask, I see that there is no clear distinction between what the central administration and the ministries are doing and what the local government agencies do. I'm explaining. In your question you refer one by one. Firstly, the wider urban and spatial planning problem of the capital. This is a matter of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. Secondly, the central roads and local road networks which are the responsibility of the region. Thirdly, the issue of loading and catering of shops. And that's the region's competence. Fourthly, you referred to the 'big walk' and asked me to comment on what is happening with the main hotels. The question of hiking is a matter of the Municipality of Athens. Fifth, the coverage of traffic lanes in relation to the large hotels in the centre is a matter of the Municipality of Athens and the Ministry of Civil Protection. Sixthly, in your question you are talking about the working hours of workers who are the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour. All this, my dear fellow Member, has been under the responsibility of the respective bodies, especially the issues that have gone to the region and the municipalities since 2011. It's nothing new. And I think we need to make that clear. Many times we come to the Greek Parliament and many times and ministers are forced to respond to issues that evade their responsibilities. So I am here to answer the issues concerning the responsibility of the Ministry. You quite rightly referred to this and said that this issue is an issue which in recent years, especially with the coronary, has deteriorated. As we all know, across Europe and throughout the world fewer passengers use public transport. It's something that's not just happening here. We, as Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, what have we done to solve the problem? We said that the ring should start on 25 November. But not with the system of the single pairs mentioned in your question. We are now talking about a clean ring, as vehicles and other categories are free of charge, such as electrics, such as gas and LPG, hybrids, and Euro 6 vehicles emitted under 120 grams of CO2, i.e. carbon dioxide. This is how we are trying to deal with, not only the traffic, but also the environmental issue. At the same time, however, we have also taken another measure, which is quite drastic. Half of all the licenses and exceptions available in respect of the ring and the situation in the perimeter of the ring, as demonstrated by all the data, are clearly improved. It has nothing to do with what is happening in the center of Athens today with what happened before this process was implemented. I would even say to you, in Athens, that we have done other things about public transport, which is SYRIZA's favorite issue. I shall therefore tell you the following elements which are not disputed: In 2019, how many buses did we have in Athens? We had eight hundred fifty. How much do we have today? We've got a thousand three hundred twenty-six buses. That's an increase of 55%. To go to Thessaloniki, the buses there were two hundred thirty two and we've reached five hundred. How many metro trains did we have in line 2 and line 3 in 2019? We had thirty-two. One-third of the trains were out of order. How many do we have today? We have thirty-eight. How many recruitments did your government have for four and a half years? Zero. How many recruitments did we make to deal with issues in public transport? We did a thousand, three hundred, eighty-nine hires. What did you do? You had abolished three tram stops. We restored tram to the Constitution, brought tram to the SEF, and in a few days with the Prime Minister we will go to Piraeus, where you will see thirteen new tram stops in Piraeus. How many new trains have you received in 2015-2019? Zero. How many of us do we receive? We're picking up twenty-five. And most importantly, where was the ticket in your day of rule? It was 1,20 euros, you took it to 1,40 euros, and we brought it back to 1,20 euros. So what do I want to tell you about this? I would like to tell you that the issue of traffic has to do with strengthening public transport. And that's what we do. We are strengthening the instruments so that we can reach Europe's average, where the percentage of travel in a big city now has to reach almost 33% to 38%. Your days were at 25%. Today we're at 28%. The coronary, it is true, has made things difficult because passenger traffic has fallen, and we must slowly give the opportunity so that people, passengers and citizens can use more means. You said to us: 'What is your strategy?' I conclude, therefore, by saying that our strategy is this: all this gloomy responsibility, which is the result of your colleague's policy now, Mr Ragosi, in 2011, because that was then, if I remember correctly, the Minister for the Interior who decided to pass these responsibilities on to local government - and this whole sense of responsibility, therefore, demonstrates one thing, that all these bodies should sit one day on a table and discuss it. And that's what we did. We have adopted the decision of the Association of Greek Transporters, in order to create one, as they say, a metropolitan body - we have proposed calling it a wider body - where the municipality, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Civil Protection, the Ministry of the Environment, the region, will sit on the same table so that we can find a comprehensive solution to these problems. To prove to you how the data have been changed, and I am closing down with this, Madam President, even the Marketing Management Centre, which has previously been the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport, has now been the responsibility of the Region of Attica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Now here's what you're doing, Minister. You start your answer by saying that you do not have all these responsibilities you fall in love with. But you could have answered the simple parliamentary question we have asked. If we had to bring you here today on a topical question, it is because you have a disgrace to the parliamentary process. You could say what you said now in writing so that we can have a debate on this one. Let it be. What are we keeping from your answer? We keep that it's Mr. Patolis's fault as Director and Mr. Bakoyannis as Mayor. The question is very simple: do you, as a ministry and as a government, have a single strategy? After you said that it was their fault, because many of their responsibilities did not cover them, at the end of your reply you said that you would also do a wider coordinating body in order to be able to resolve this history of responsibilities. Do you have an opinion on who has cleaned up the University of Transport and Environment? For the Syntagma square, do you have any comment about whose responsibility it is for? What if it's the municipality's competence, you as a central government, as a state, as a co-ordination of all this policy, do you have any opinion? For hotels that have taken up traffic strips, do you have any view? To say that it is not your responsibility, but it is the municipality or the region that does not relieve you of political responsibility. Now we're going to the main issue, which is the ring. You say you made the ring. The ring is the most outdated policy. I was expecting you to tell me something more serious, something more visionary, something more designative. You've been telling me you've been doing the ring for two months. However, the ring has been a policy that has been in place since 1982, when there were four hundred thousand cars in the Athens basin. Today, how many cars are running in the Lecanopedio? There's three million going on. You did, of course, take a measure, why couldn't you take any measures, but do you think that has decongested the capital's traffic? The Transport Association has proposed not to you a observatory as you say you will, but it has proposed to you a single body to coordinate all transport in Attica, that is, local, super-local, metropolitan transport systems. Is that what you're going to do? Does the discussion on tolls in the center of Athens or does it not apply? Fortunately, I didn't hear anything mention. I am glad to say that I hope you do not disappoint me in your dentistry. As far as the green ring is concerned, this is a strategy that you will implement in 2030 or 2040. So you think the answer to Athens' traffic is the green ring that should replace three million cars and change them to hybrids or electrics? And you are now showing this as a concrete proposal. Unfortunately, I have the feeling that we are leaving more concerned than the answer you give today in relation to Athens, because it seems that you have no action in your mind, but you have some general view of a green ring that we will see how and although on what terms we will apply when we have a renewal of the whole orgy that is now available in Athens. As far as public transport is concerned - and I am closing down with that - I would like to say the following. You're on public transport? Have you been on the subway or suburbs these days? So what you're saying here in front of the National Representation has something to do with reality? The reality is that at the moment the metro has much more sparse routes and is on each other, and under conditions of COVID. With regard to buses, honestly if you have seen an increase in the fleet, I am very sorry, but I will admit it. You may buy cars. However, what you have on the roads and routes that you have and which support this policy is more sparse. While you should start from a really brave increase in the public transport services and infrastructures, I am following a situation that has in practice and in everyday life. Unfortunately, as I said before, we are leaving more restless than the policy you have in mind to implement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u131	It's very interesting for SYRIZA to blame us for having something to do with reality. That is really something that is quite interesting. So let's go from the world of fantasy to the world of the right speech. My dear colleague, we are not making any comments here. The Ministers of Government Mitsotakis do not comment. Maybe when you were the Minister to comment. We do specific things and we are judged for it. Therefore, because, if I remember correctly, you have also served as Deputy Minister of the Interior, you should know who it belongs to and address your questions. But because I do not want to avoid the question you asked, I will say yes, that the hiking that is taking place in Athens in the long term? They lead to creating conditions more human beings in the city. That's where they drive. This demonstrates all the practices that are happening in other cities in the European Union. You said you were leaving more worried. But I don't think we can reach an agreement in this Chamber. I told you that what we have been doing is taking into account and accepting what has not been done for years. What do you mean? The opinion and proposal of the Association of Greek Communists. You obviously didn't understand. We are, however, going to what you were saying about public transport, because it really makes me a great impression that we cannot reach agreement in this Chamber and in this House on the real facts and facts: buses on SYRIZA 2019 eight hundred fifty buses today, three hundred and twenty. How did that happen? This was because we colluded with the private sector. Because your party has an ideal with the private sector, and for the first time we did the process of leasing in the Greek public sector, and we collated with the CCFs to bring two hundred urban buses and today you see these buses in the center of Athens. It may not be you, but the citizens of Athens see it. Will you tell me if there are any problems or not? Of course there are problems. There is no big city today in Europe that does not have any problems with public transport in view of COVID. You talked about the subway. Do you know how many trains you had on line 2 and 3? And these elements we have submitted on several occasions to the House and they are not elements of the government, they are elements of the OSCE. We had one-third of the trains stationed - I repeat one-third of the trains stationed - and today we have six to eight trains more in line 2 and 3. These are not air words. That's real evidence. Also, the price of the ticket you, the philosophical government of SYRIZA and the left since 1.20, took it to 1.40. We reduced the price of the ticket and even gave additional incentives to the users of cards that are currently around 2/3 in OSCE, so that they have discount packages. We therefore have a specific plan for public transport, and I told you what it is with evidence. All over Europe, movements and movements in a big city must be at least 1/3 from 33% to 38% by public transport. The deportation that has occurred in the media in your days and at a time when there was no coronary was this, these movements had fallen to 25%. So we are now doing everything we can to get back to the level of over 30% with a specific plan. Madam President, because things have been heard which have nothing to do with reality. You tell us what our plan is. First let's agree on something, Mr. Comrade? Today we're talking about the situation in the center of Athens with the application of the ring, which is a plus ring if you want, is it better or isn't it? We're all out in the center of Athens. You say it's an outdated measure. That's why we said something very simple that we need to sit with the Polytechnics and the Association of Greek Transporters to see whether we need to widen the ring so that its radius is not in the two and a half kilometres that it is today. We have therefore taken steps immediately. The situation in the centre has improved. As far as this issue is concerned, this traffic is not just about the government and a Minister, it concerns many ministries, it concerns the region, it concerns the municipality, and we are in good cooperation to find solutions. So we do not throw the ball away, my dear fellow, neither the mayor nor the district manager. We are saying something very simple - and obviously SYRIZA refuses to understand - that in a parliamentary democracy and in a modern European state institutions must sit together and discuss and that is what we are doing and that is what we are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the eleventh question under number 212/22-11-2021 of the second cycle of MP B1' North Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos (Kosta) Zachariadis to the Minister of the Interior, on "Act and non-use of the weapon of teleworking by the government in the public sector". The current question will be answered by the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mavroudis Voridis. Here, Mr Zachariadis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u133	Unfortunately, Minister, none of what the government had predicted has come true and the tragic consequences of this situation have come to light today, today that Greece has six times more deaths than Italy has sixty million. What does that mean? It means we have the same absolute number. Our neighbours, Spain and Portugal have gone ahead. Unfortunately, we are like Balkans and Eastern Europe and not Western Europe. You did not learn from your mistakes and the Greek citizen pays it. We're not last mile, we're not in a fall after a normal summer, we're again, unfortunately, in a dark winter lately and we need to see what we're going to do. You requested suggestions. We are responding to a combination of measures. Accelerate vaccination, strengthen the ESS, exploit effective medicines, have fewer children in class and teleworking in the public and private sectors, but we talk about the public here. So let's go to the subject of teleworking. What do specialist scientists tell us? They tell us that 20% of the dispersion occurs in public transport when people go to work and 40% of the dispersion takes place in the workplace, because they sit long hours and relax and take off the mask within the working hours. And you don't listen, Mr. Vorides, what scientists say, you say yours. You baptized the vaccination programme "YELLERIA". Wrong, it's not freedom, it's security. We're not free when we're vaccinated, we're safer. You and the Prime Minister insist that it is a pandemic of the invaders. Wrong, it's pandemic. It concerns and unvaccinant, of course much more easily ill, they have a greater viral load, they intubate more, they die more and they are vaccinated, especially now by the 'Omicon' mutation. That's not what SYRIZA says, the World Health Organization says, they are called internationally renowned scientists from Greece and abroad. In Belgium, they have teleworked, in France, countries with higher rates of vaccination than we do. There is a strong recommendation in the Czech Republic. In countries where there is a local lockdown there is necessarily teleworking, and you have described our proposal as a scoundrel by means of a press release. I don't want you to apologize, Minister, I want you to do it. We want people to be saved. When I wrote this question in early November, in the country we had sixteen thousand dead and now we go to seventeen and a half. Ms. Linou in an article in the paper "TA NEWS" says we would save three thousand deaths if we took action on public transport. Unfortunately, the situation is uncontrollable and your obsessions lead us to a record of deaths, in lockdown and in economic amplification. Take steps now to avoid the worst. Go to teleworking, test vaccinated and unvaccinated. See what they do in other European countries and do better. Do not reject any synthetic and consensual suggestions that may take us out of the stall.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, on teleworking, we will finish a little bit with the regulatory framework and then I will make a reference, perhaps in my second language, to the more general you have said. It is good, however, to get an answer to what is now happening so that false impressions are not created. Well, the teleworking decision has been included in the joint ministerial decision, adopted on 19-11-2021, valid until 6-12-2021. Reiterate the formalities for a respective Ministerial Decision of June 2021. What does she say? The number of teleworkers in the public service shall be determined on the basis of the nature of the employees' duties and the needs of each service at the rate determined by each service's work plan until the entry into force of this Directive. Therefore, the exceptional teleworking which concerns pandemic is maintained just as it was, and according to the work plan before June 2021. Did I answer your question? Because I think we're done with this. Why are we done with this? Because I say to you that we maintain the same institutional framework at the time when we had all the measures for the pandemic. You want more than that? That's the question. You say in your question - I read it - that 'we must have a universal reinstatement of teleworking in the public sector with uniform rules'. You are also saying that there are no horizontal measures for teleworking per service. In your mind, can teleworking be applied horizontally? So, we're gonna have teleworking, for example, for the police, the health workers, the military? How will it be applied horizontally? In services that come into contact with the public and in services that do not come into contact with the public, will we have horizontal measures? Are we going to say that 50% will leave there, or will there be a variation depending on the nature and functioning of the service? We tell you something self-evident, and because you do not bother to study and see what is in place, you come and say something now. You ask: 'Do you know the percentages of teleworking?' Of course we do. I'm telling you, for example, some percentages. The Ministry of Development and Investment 14.18% is teleworked. At the Ministry of Interior, 8.27% are teleworked. In the Ministry of Digital Governance, which of course has a different nature, 34.72% is teleworked. Now, how exactly do you want to decide on this? Will you put a minimum limit and say everywhere, regardless of the service needs, to telework? Do you realize what this means to the public service? So I can prove to you that your proposal is being rejected at this point too, because it is lame, inappropriate, inappropriate and only called for it to be said once again. In other words, the services take into account the institutional framework established for teleworking and apply it precisely at the moment when the pandemic existed and, indeed, before the vaccine. I shall return to the vaccination and the consequences of the rhetoric that you have developed in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u137	Minister, I'm developing the rhetoric of the World Health Organisation. You told the world that the vaccine is freedom while it's safe. You told the world we were in the last mile. I would now like to see what you will do with the 'Omicon' mutation. And do something. And listen to us about the "Omicon" mutation because there are great difficulties. You tell me that 'we are adopting the framework that was in place for the previous pandemic period'. Tell me, Mr. Voridis, when did we have eight thousand cases in Greece, such a disease spread, six hundred tubed with 63% of the world vaccinated? Last November and October, it seems we had less deaths than this year. Don't you realize we're messing up? Do you not understand the comparison with the other European countries? You insist that my proposal be described as "soft", "inapplicable", "wuffy", "fast" last time. You bring in a good proposal. Bring her in. I'm just saying it, folk, so people watching us can figure it out. Take people out into teleworking, not to enter public transport, to be less in the office, and we will obviously see it in general rules and obviously per service. What are you talking about? I don't understand? You're the only ones who know from the public? But when in an EKKA office or an office of a DUA, which is to say that they do not come into contact with the citizens, one agency decides to do one on four teleworking and on the next three on four what is the criterion? Do we have a digital state? Have we been leaping over the last two years like it's been all over the world? Are we going to use these to protect the citizens, or are we going to be fighting in Parliament's room? Things are simple. Portugal, left-wing government, full 87% vaccination. Vaccines - because you're telling me my rhetoric is dangerous - to go to night outlets, etc., go with a test. Listen to what the Socialist Prime Minister said: "It does not matter how successful the vaccination campaign was, but we must be aware that we are entering a high-risk phase." That's what Mr. Costa says with 87%. You, with 55%, said 'normal summer, last mile'. Teleworking, Mr Costa, will be compulsory in the first week of January to check the spread of the virus after the holiday season, 2 to 9 January. See what the countries ahead are doing, Mr. Voridis? I'm not SYRIZA's me. Do Denmark, doing tests on vaccinated and unvaccinated. Make Mr. Costa. Make any model you want. Do something. Stop doing nothing. Stop letting society become familiar with the fact that every day a hundred people leave life and we will say "so". It's not like that. There are countries that are not like that. Stop when you announce measures to look at cases, intubated, dead, polling. If you can't do it, have someone else do it. We need to focus on the problem. We're not in winter yet. You're taking us to disaster. We're warning you. If you'd heard me twenty days ago and applied the measure, it would now work. Now we'd have entered the de-escalation phase. You insist, however, and come today with intensity, with style. You're not listening. It is an announcement by the Prime Minister - and I am closing down with this, Madam President - that the country needs proposals and consultation. We make suggestions and understanding, you find us. So, how do you mean by understanding? How do you mean the suggestions? How do you mean consent? Did you put Minister Ploris as a pragmatic figure and as a political strategy to create a consensual framework? Do you insult us when we make proposals and do you think that this is what it is like to the Greek people as a government that listens? You go out and say, personally, in television shows that "and lockdown to suggest that scientists do not do so." Then you go out on another television show and say that 'a Austrian-type lockdown would like it', but at the same time you have rejected my own proposal for teleworking. How do you reject my proposal for teleworking and suggest that you personally lockdown of the Austrian type - which Mr Economou has 'emptied you' - should we not do teleworking? Isn't it a little weird, Mr. Voridis? Let's see it again. Let's hear a suggestion. It'll be good in the country too, good for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, Mr. Zachariadis, I don't remember ever being abusive to you. To make an evaluation judgment on the content of your proposal, do you understand that as a hurricane? I've received insults from your resignation, but I never remember being abusive to anyone. But, not remove us and the right to evaluate your proposals as to whether they are serious or not, whether they are worthy or not, whether they are pressed or not. Your proposal, Mr Zachariadis, which you are asking me to take seriously, is what you are saying to me: 'Public work with uniform rules and horizontal application'. I'm telling you, this isn't happening, what do we do now? I say to you that the framework that was already in place, which takes into account two things, is actually taking into account the reality of one of the epidemics. Why, Mr. Zachariadis, does he take it into account? Because this isn't regular teleworking. In your question - it is interesting - you say that we have shown particular importance for the adoption of Law No 4807 of 2020-2021 on teleworking, but then - you say - we have left him in his luck. Let me remind you that the teleworking law voted against him, and now you're sad because we left him in his luck. If you don't like the law, what do you care about his fate? You should wish that the law would never apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u140	Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u141	You didn't like it. You voted against him. Look out! So since you have all these contradictions, the inconsistencies, the 'yes, but' you come now and do something to tell you that, in my opinion, you are not coordinates where you should be coordinates. What are the elements you call for, Mr Zachariadis, since you are opening the debate on the pandemic? What are the key elements in which the debate should focus, obsessively, constantly, firmly? Do you know what we should talk about? Do you understand? For 85% of the people in the ICU are inconsistent. For 95% of people who end up are invasive. The main conversation, do you know what it was supposed to be? One. The increase in vaccination. That's the conversation. If these people who are not vaccinated today were not always given different alibis to remain uninvasive, but all of them were put before their responsibilities, the need to get vaccinated to save their lives, to protect their lives, so that they would not get severely ill, to transmit less, the image would be different. You have invoked the relationship between Portugal, Italy, the rates of hospitalized at the ICU and the deaths, and you say they have better performance. Of course! Have you seen the graph? Do you know what he's making? Where you don't have an increase in vaccination, you've got an increase in ICUs and deaths. That's what the graphs say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u142	You're a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u143	Let go of 'Government you are'. See what you're doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u144	You're not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u145	Let go, sir. Did anyone talk to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u146	Yes, you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u147	Are you involved in the conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Barca, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u149	If you are interested in asking parliamentary questions as a Member. So we're coming here. What do you say? Instead of putting the question of the responsibility of each one who has to be vaccinated, explaining what risk he takes, explaining the risks, what do you come and say? No, it's not his fault. There is no such matter here. There is a question of government responsibilities here. Government policy is not good. It's not his fault that he decides not to be vaccinated. He's getting rid of it! Do you understand what message you're sending to society? Do you understand the enormous responsibility you have as Civic Opposition? On the one hand, you say, of course, that they will be vaccinated, but, of course, this is a political issue. What kind of policy would be the issue of vaccination, which at the time we were discussing was 65% and pleasant thanks to our policy, over the last five hundred thousand people have been vaccinated with the first dose of vaccine? Why? Because we insist on that. We insist on the issue of taking responsibility. We insist on suggesting that they go to vaccination, the risks that exist if they are not vaccinated and do not follow the slippery path that you are proposing, namely the discharge of responsibilities and the transfer of the debate to a political level. It's just here. If they were vaccinated, ICUs wouldn't have 85% - do you hear that? - those who are hospitalized and if they were vaccinated, we would not have 95% of the deaths. If that could be supported, then there would indeed be a field of understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the second debate under No 453/19-10-2021 on the question of the circle of petitions - questions by the Member of the Messinia coalition of the Radical Left, Alexandros (Alexis) Greetings to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Suffering about the Greek economy, revisions to the downwards of the costs of the Recovery and Resilience Fund for 2021'. The Deputy Minister of Finance will answer Mr. Theodoros Skakakis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, my question concerns the Recovery and Resilience Fund, which is indeed an important political shift in relation to how the European Union is facing this very great crisis of pandemic in relation to previous crises. For the first time, we have a policy of burden-sharing, for the first time we have an expansionist policy, which gives resources to the Member States. Unfortunately, our country has paid very painfully the austerity policies that have been followed over the last decade. But on this great opportunity of the Recovery Fund, in this historic year, I would say, an opportunity, where our country is entitled to receive EUR 3.2 billion from subsidies and from loans, and while your government planned high expenditure from the Fund up to the end of the current year, in a year in which the multiple crises that we are facing - pandemic, economic, energy - make it more necessary than ever before to influencing resources into the real economy, we find that there is, unfortunately, a huge distance between those you yourself had budgeted as expenditure from the Recovery Fund and the real inputs to the Greek economy. To be specific, in last year's budget, in the 2021 budget, you said that for 2021, for the current year, expenditure from the Recovery Fund was estimated at EUR 2.6 billion. In the medium term, which was voted on 1-7-2021, only seven months later, this estimate fell by EUR 1.6 billion, and again in the budget for the current year, you are talking about EUR 600 million. And let me say that the picture that I have from the Ministry of Development, from his services, speaks of real final expenditure in the current year, in 2021, just 150 million euros. I would therefore ask you, Minister, on the basis of this data, to tell us what the real resource absorption is in the end. Be careful, so that we do not get confused and not talk to me about any other indicators, we are talking about the real expenditure, that is, the money that is falling into the real economy, business, households and workers. That's what we're interested in. And, of course, because the crucial thing is what is going to happen in the future, I would also ask you, Minister, how you plan, given this very long delay, to implement the objectives which you yourself have set for 2022, namely the absorption of EUR 3.2 million. I think we all understand how critical it is, especially in the current conditions of the Greek economy, that these resources should be absorbed from the Greek economy as soon as possible. Unfortunately, the government's performance so far makes us very concerned about when and how this necessary funds will be influencing the Greek economy. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u153	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Honourable Member of the Opposition to give the picture of the implementation of the 'Greece 2.0' Recovery Fund. Starting with, say that Greece was one of the first countries - in fact, the second one - who testified the plan. It was in the first series of countries that were adopted. We have taken the advance in time, in relation to other countries. We've finished the landmarks of the first disbursement, which we finished in September. We have had the overall debate with the committee, and our assessment is that we will submit the request for disbursement in December, after signing the operational contract with the European Commission. To have a comparative picture, to date there have been four countries of the twenty-seven, including large countries and countries in need of money, which have not yet been approved at all - there is no approval - and seventeen have received advances. A country specifically has not requested an advance. It's Ireland. Also, in terms of disbursement, we estimate that we will be in the first three or four countries to submit the first request for disbursement. Spain, which has already submitted it, had it as a milestone in Q2 of 2021. These are for the image of the course, speed. The tool has two legs. Some 60% are grants and 40% are loans. The picture we had when we made the budget last year, long before we had a finalisation of the Rules of Procedure - the Rules of Procedure were finalised in February - was a preliminary picture without knowing why it had not been decided, what choices it will have and what will be accepted, which is decisive for the speed of absorption and also without knowing how long the bureaucratic procedures will last. Since then, we have seen that we have had a blockade of large categories of projects, not of projects, but across Europe, and road projects and waste management - I say two categories that would have a rapid absorption potential - came out completely. In addition, despite the very high speed at which we have moved, the final adoption of the project was given in mid-July. And here you need to know, every month in the absorbance counts. The absorptions, let's say, of the last two months will lead to multiple absorption of what Mr. Haritsis says. We have put an image in the budget. And I think we will have a faster entry than we planned for the loan instrument. We said in the medium term that we would have 900 million of the loans. I believe that we will be able to give the banks about 1.5 billion by the end of the year to start the relevant absorptions at high speed. Today, in particular, I signed the agreement with EBRD and in the next few days we will disburse the first 100 million from the relevant EBRD account to the Bank of Greece. Therefore, it also starts this tool. I do not want to hide at all that this bet is an extremely difficult bet. The absorption of 3.2 billion in 2022 in the real economy is a major challenge. The country's investment program together - to have a picture - usually had absorption by 2019 at around 5 billion, 4.5 billion, with 5 billion real absorption. We're talking about disbursements outside the general government. And we are being called upon to do more than two thirds on a programme that is completely new and which we are starting a whole new investment, in fact within a year and a half. It's a difficult bet, how we try to achieve this level of absorption. We will propose, as far as possible, projects, invitations to activate the private sector, co-financing, whether they are invitations to small and medium-sized enterprises of EUR 1.5 billion, or invitations to households which are "EXOCIUM" or training programmes, which can accelerate absorption. We'll run the projects as fast as possible. In fact, we realise that projects will be able to achieve great absorption with exceptions after 2023, because in the best possible world, at best possible time, integration in less than a year and a half of study, a competitive process and serious absorption after the competitive process, is very difficult in most of these projects. Let us not forget what we received from the point of view of mature studies in the specific projects required by the Recovery Fund, which is - I recall - 37% of green and 20% digital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u154	Me too, Minister. Mr. Haritsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I would expect your answer to reassure us and to present us with a plan to speed up the absorption of the recovery fund. Unfortunately, I am very afraid that our concerns are growing after this answer I have just heard. Why, first, it is confirmed that, in 2021, the government's own forecasts fall by more than EUR 2 billion. I have here the information I would like to present in the Minutes - if I may - in relation to the actual absorptions for 2021. These are data from the Ministry of Development's Public Investment Department for the current year. But, Minister, it seems that, in 2022, the delay that has taken place will lead to a very long delay in the use of these very important funds, and the target of the 3.2 billion you yourself have set for 2022 is at stake. But you will allow me here to raise another issue. Because it is good to talk about numbers and, of course, the Greek economy in these circumstances has a very great need for these inputs. But we need to look beyond the quantitative element. And here, let me say that the figures at my disposal for 2021 are even more alarming. Because - beware - we started at 2.6 billion, we dropped to 1.6 billion, we dropped to 600 million. Finally, absorption was only 150 million for 2021. And what is revealed by the evidence of the Ministry responsible? That all 150 million concern firstly the E65 project, the advances on the E65 road line, a project which has matured over the past three NSRP programming periods. It's not new, as you know very well. It also concerns an action by the Ministry of Education on digital care, on the supply of practically laptop for schools. Are these the interventions, the development initiatives planned by the Government for the new innovative instrument of the Recovery Fund? Is that how we're going to go in the next few years? Just put costs where we can and where we are about to show a elementary absorption so that the relevant account at the end of the year is not zero? Here needs a plan, Minister. A plan needs to be drawn so that this money, the very crucial funds for both the subsidy section and, in particular, for the projects, but also for the loan section and, therefore, support for enterprises and especially small and medium-sized enterprises that are excluded from the banking system, can catch a place. This logic of the past cannot continue, namely, simply to use this money to close holes and show a nominal - let me say - absorption. So the quantitative issue is also very critical. You are already over 2 billion below the targets you have set yourself. And it takes the issue of quality, which is where these funds will be directed, and if they do get a place and if they do produce new added value for the Greek economy. These questions are very critical, because - let me say this - I think that the Recovery Fund is currently in the state of the Greek economy and with the multiple crises that it has to face from pandemic to energy, it is a - if perhaps the last - opportunity to have a recovery and also a transformation of the production model. If this money is to be given once again just to say that it has been given to the well-known and powerful and programmes that do not produce added value for the Greek economy, I think that this will be something that will cause much more problems than what is called to solve this specific financial programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u157	There is a very interesting element from the 'PricewaterhouseCoopers', a very important survey on the speed of implementation of infrastructure projects in Greece, which I found here. It's 2019, i.e. not long ago, but not completely recent. It therefore includes the reality of the implementation of public works in Greece, for which I will tell you two figures. These figures are not the implementation time, they are the delays in the implementation time we have received, delays in preparation in relation to the initial project. Twenty-three months average delays in public works. Delays in implementation, i.e. after the contractor takes the contract, twenty-eight months. That's delays. This tool has been approved. They haven't booked six months since the approval. I explained to you very thoroughly that what was written in the last year's budget was written without knowledge, because no relevant agreements had been made as to what the European Commission, the European Parliament and the European Council would finally decide on the eligibilitys and all the rest and the speed at which it would be moving. The targets I know are very ambitious. I repeat, we are talking about a total doubling of the absorption of investments in one, in essence, year, this is not money that we share. And obviously we have also taken a number of measures so that we can speed up this absorption and we will take more. Accelerate these unacceptable elements we have received, as twenty-three months' average delay only until you reach the contract. What measures have we taken? We have first made a new 4412 that is more flexible. We have set ourselves to be able to carry out pre-contractual audits by the Court of Auditors and in the notices, so that the notices can be more secure, not to fall from appeals. We have set a bonus system that will be institutionalised in the run-up to 2022, with objectives for all services that we are dealing with and anticipating - I can tell you today, it is new - that we will go to the paid committees and a bonus system and to the competitions of the large public authorities that are a mistake, in my opinion, time-consuming that people who work there take the huge responsibility of a committee of a major competition and have no additional reward. We have a lot more to do, but I do not have that much time to develop on how to move forward more quickly, especially the staffing of the services concerned. They are people who will come from the private sector, use of framework competitions for studies and preparation, so we can go much faster. But we must be realistic. In the first phase, the key will be to mobilise private investment, and to be too fast to have the absorption of the public works that we want. As far as the evidence that Mr. Haritsis invoked is concerned, let him wait to see the end of the year. A little patience, and we'll see what absorptions we'll have. As far as I am concerned, this tool requires, and I have said so from the outset, a radical change of attitude both from the administrative point of view and from the point of view of the whole political system to succeed. I think it is good that opposition is asking this issue and it is good to monitor it very closely, so that we can all monitor the implementation of this plan very closely. This project is crucial for the country despite the difficulties and difficulties that we will encounter in the process when the competitions take place. Already in some competitions, there are obviously all the bad habits of the past from the point of view of refugees, for example in some supplies in terms of very large discounts. I saw some competitions for studies with 75% discounts. It is clear that we must also look at this issue again, namely how to avoid excessive discounts that undermine the projects themselves, but in general and overall I am optimistic that this programme will go very well, and the 2022 objective, which is very ambitious, will achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, too, Minister. We go to the ninth with number 203/18-11-2021, a topical question by the Member of the Preveza Coalition of the Radical Left, Mr. Konstantinos Barkas, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "An unjustified delay in repairing the Municipal Swimming Preveza". The Secretary of State for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Leuteris Aygeakis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u159	Minister, in the last few days you have been to Epirus. You do not, of course, pass by Preveza, but you know that in Preveza there is a swimming pool, the only swimming pool in the city and also in the county. Unfortunately, this site has been abandoned by the state. It's a major coastal municipality with a swimming pool. It would be reasonable to have the direct support and support of the state. Unfortunately, however, the results are constant problems and shortcomings. In this area, in addition to the sporting events and the exercise of hundreds of children in the area and the Municipality of Preveza and the wider area, the pool is used by the maritime schools of Epirus, as this is where the annual survey of swimming knowledge of the students and students of this school is conducted. The swimming pool, Minister, has a shortage of equipment on the premises and this requires only three to four times a year. Unfortunately, the water cannot be heated and so you understand that from autumn to spring the pool is closed. As I told you, there are children who are engaged every day, either swimming, polo, rhythmic or other kind of gymnastics. In 2019, the former Deputy Minister of Sports, Mr. Vassiliadis signed a programme contract with the then management of the Municipality of Preveza for a project entitled ‘Rehabilitation and maintenance of a swimming pool of Preveza, Preveza Preveza Prefecture’ of EUR 300 000. This is what I know that there is, it is available, and you have entered it into your Ministry's budget, but until now no action has been taken by the municipal authority, and I imagine that no one has bothered you, but you have not taken any steps to make use of this amount so that engineering equipment can function and operate by extension in the winter months. Because the situation, Minister, has caused indignation in parents, athletes, coaches who are depriving of the swimming pool facilities, because the existence of the Priveza Municipal Sport deprives the sport sector of serious consequences for society in the region as well as depriving a higher school, such as the Epirus Naval Schools, to ask you: Do you intend to implement in collaboration with the Preveza Municipality the 2019 programming contract? The first question is that. Also, do you intend to disburse any other sums to maintain the facilities and restore the damage of Preveza Municipal Swimming? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u160	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, Mr Barkas, thank you very much for the question concerning the delay in the repair of the Preveza Municipal Swimming Centre. I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity, on the one hand, to inform the House of the official step in this House of a pathogen that is taking place in certain programming contracts with institutions, in particular municipalities, and, on the other hand, of the important work that has been done over the past two and a half years in cooperation with the CEDEFOP on the recording, maintenance and upgrading of municipal sports facilities through the 'PILOPAS' programme, and that is why I shall speak to you in detail. As far as the Preveza Municipal Pool is concerned, however, I know that a programme contract was signed between the Ministry of Culture and Sport and the Municipality of Prevezis on 18-2019. The fact that the contract was signed a few months before the elections also has its own value and I shall refer to this later. The contract was subject to repair and maintenance of mechanics and swimming facilities of the Municipality of Preveza. The duration of the contract was thirty-six months, sixteen months until the completion of the project and the remaining fifteen months until final receipt. In other words, the end of the contract was 18-10-2021. The budget was EUR 290,000. What obligations were created by the contract? Firstly, the Ministry of Sports has been designated as a financing body for the project and undertakes to pay up to the amount of the authorised appropriations. That is, more simply, the Ministry of Sports would make payments to the recipients of the project by presenting all legal documents to the relevant departments of the General Sports Secretariat. In fact, such payments shall be defined as an account officer, the project promoter. Secondly, the Municipality of Preveza was designated as the body implementing the project and has the responsibility for the implementation of the project, i.e. tendering and construction. What happened to that? Nothing at all with the exclusive responsibility of the city. The contract therefore expired on 18-7-2020 after the sixteen months set for the completion of the project. It's over by itself. So do you come today after almost a year and a half to ask us what? Let me get this straight. Why didn't we pay for the work that wasn't done? And it was not without the slightest responsibility of the State Secretary for Sports, as you can see. The Municipality of Preveza did not appoint a municipality representative for the contract monitoring committee. On our own initiative we contacted the city's Deputy Mayor of Technical Services, Mr. Konstantinos Acidis, and we were informed that the tender procedures were suspended because static problems were identified in the building. We have been informed that there will be a first study of static adequacy and static support, and after the procedures have been completed, we will proceed with the repair and maintenance of the bathing facilities. For the truth, I am presenting you with a note on the subject which confirms this detail which I now convey to you. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It was right, therefore, that this process had to be carried out from the outset, namely, the static strengthening of the plant and after the repair and maintenance work of the swimming pool and not the return made by my predecessor Mr Vassiliou, who gave pre-election contracts and promises, which he knew very well that they would not be carried out, given that SYRIZA would not be in the government. As he knew very well, it wouldn't be the next day. It would therefore have no question of dealing with the product of such programming contracts. But we, Mr Barkas, are also giving a solution to these problems that, due to your election unapplicable promises, you have created. Mostly, you have created a feeling in many places in society that everything is running and that it is just before disbursement. Disbursement to what, to whom? I should therefore like to point out to my dear friends in Preveza and to those who are watching us in the sports family in the region and, above all, to the bathing family in the region that, once the static support for the plant has been completed, we are ready to sign a new programme agreement and finance the repair and maintenance work of the municipal swimming pool. So we expect the Preveza Municipality to move forward, because in these two and a half years, unfortunately, nothing has happened. Upgrading and modernising sports facilities, our vision of them and the development of our sport is a very great and demanding project that we have set as a priority from the first days of our duties, and today this is progressing slowly but systematically throughout the country, with realism based on the real economic data of our country and with the contribution of the program "POLOPOS". Let me tell you that in the second part of the opportunity given to me to take the floor, I will provide extremely useful and interesting information for all those who are following us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u162	Me too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u163	Mr Minister, thank you very much. Thank you very much for highlighting the responsibilities of the leadership of the Municipality of Preveza, a member of yours who you had appointed and commander of the Preveza Hospital in the New Republic of Samaras, a right-wing partner of the Municipality of Preveza for whom you demonstrated as you said, I will take the Minutes as well, that it has an absolute responsibility for not implementing this project. Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for giving us a thorough briefing of the Ministry of Sports, since you are also the President of the SEA and I am an amateur traveler lately. But I do not want to do that, Madam President. Allow me to ask a timely question, tell us the cooperation you had with the municipalities about the corrections and what you have done in municipal facilities throughout the country. I am, however, very pleased that you, Mr Minister, show the absolute responsibility of the Municipality of Preveza and the municipal authority of the Municipality of Preveza for not implementing this project. And you were poorly informed of the problems of stagnation, because, Minister, this funding concerned repair and maintenance of machinery and building facilities. No relationship has to do with the problems of possibly stagnation of the swimming pool. It was about equipment and how we could heat the water in the winter months, so the pool could be in operation. That was the point. Obviously you have no responsibility since, as you have said, you are a funder, that is to say, whatever study is delivered to you, that is what you are financing and depositing this money. Obviously, it is the municipality's responsibility, as you very eloquently developed in your first speech, which was a body implementing the project, that is to say, responsible for doing the studies, doing the contests and moving on with the project. The municipality, Minister, has changed hands - you know - since May 2019. I also inform you - because you may have friends in Preveza and may have been informed - that the mayor is on your side, I also inform you from a step of Parliament. So you understand that the responsibility you lay on the municipality lies with a member of your own. Congratulations! In order for the Portuguese people to know that you may not have any relationship and communication with the municipality and that it has an absolute responsibility for the non-implementation of a project whose funding is in your funds, as you have said. In other words, the money you have, but the implementation of the project cannot be done, you cannot finance it, because the municipality simply does nothing, so that this project can be implemented. Thank you very much once again for your reply, Minister. And I do not want you to tell me what you have done in cooperation with the CEDEFOP, because it is specific about the question I am presenting to you, not about the interventions you have made in sports facilities throughout the country in other municipalities, but about what has happened with the money that has been given to the Preveza Municipality by the previous State Secretary, by the previous government, and what you have said, but unfortunately, has not been studied under the responsibility of the municipality so that it can be implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Colleague, I admire your selective hearing. You did not hear, you probably did not want to hear the political responsibilities of the previous leadership of the Ministry of Sports, Mr Vassiliou in particular, and the ten programming contracts he signed without any preparation and no physical willingness to implement them. So, please, listen very carefully to my first answer to your original question and I am sure that, beyond the impression of what you wanted and want to create, the answers are quite clear: absolute mockery and deception in too many municipalities, in many sports clubs and, of course, in the entire sports family. And I'm obviously going to the second part of my answer. Of course you are not in the mood to hear what you have said, but I will say it, because I have already announced a number of elements which are directly related to what you have asked. Do you know how many sports facilities there are in our country? You do not know, because you have never been interested in learning, not only you but all the previous ones who have been in the responsibility of the Ministry of Sports. I'll answer you and please don't take it personally. No one knew or rather until we took over the country's governance, none of us knew exactly what we had in our country in terms of sports infrastructure. The ultimate chaos in the sports landscape. Is it honoring you? Does he honor Mr. Vassilidis, Mr. Contonis? I guess not. When I took over the sports portfolio, all I managed to find out is that we have about forty-eight, forty-seven sports federations and nothing else. No clear picture of how many active amateur unions we have, how many coaches work legally, how many sports facilities there are in the municipalities of our country. My decision to enter zero solid foundations of transparency was horizontal in the sporting structure, and, in particular, when we talk about homes of sport, in the places that we trust our children to be safely sported, in the places where we choose to attend and enjoy sporting events ourselves, without any idea of the identity of the building and infrastructure. Our vision found a valuable ally who shared the same struggles with me and immediately implemented the solution plan. In cooperation with the CEDEFOP and the president and very good friend Dimitris Papastergiou, we set in June 2020 a digital platform for the recording of sports facilities. The integration of the municipalities to which it belongs and the vast majority of our country's sports facilities was planned first, and then we are in agreement with the CEDEFOP to allow the registration of sports facilities belonging to the regions and individuals. With Article 47 of Law 4809/2021, we have created the obligation to register in the "POLOPOS" platform and to register Sport Sport Sites in it. We have legislated on the electronic platform in the context of the government policy on e-government and the need to support, strengthen and develop amateur sport. We have arranged for the registration of local authorities (a) and (b) on the platform and the registration of their sports facilities to be a prerequisite for their integration into the current financial instruments available to the LAGs in general for the implementation of projects relating to sports facilities, such as "PHILOPOS II" and the new development programme. Obviously this project is not just about self-evident - that is to say, to know how many facilities our country has - but has a much more important useful use. Based on what the operators say on the platform, we will be able to know important elements, such as the old age of the installation concerned, its benefits, the types of facilities per region and their shortcomings. In this way, we will succeed much more effectively to prioritise the needs of each region and the criticality of the demands of the municipalities for funding. We have stressed this here in plenary, and I will remind you of it. If a municipality is not registered in the register, it will not assess its requests. If an existing sports installation is not registered in the ‘POLOPA’, the demands for upgrading and exploitation will not be considered. The vast majority of municipalities have already responded positively and we thank them. 76% of the municipalities are already on the platform. Seventy-nine more municipalities are coming up. The platform's not closing. So we are waiting for the immediate response of those municipalities who have not yet made the procedures. I am presenting in the Minutes the municipalities that have not implemented their registrations by requesting them to do so directly. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Although the process is dynamic and even the municipalities are in the process of registration, we see a clear picture being formed. So far there have been three thousand eight hundred eight sports facilities. According to the statements by the municipalities and their organizations, there are a thousand six hundred and fifty five football courts, a thousand hundred and fifty-three open spaces - courtyards, five hundred seven closed gyms, three hundred three sports clubs, one hundred 14 sports clubs, forty-eight open swimming pools, twenty-five closed swimming pools, nine snipers, nine sea sports clubs and we continue. I am tabling in their minutes that my colleagues are already working together very carefully, and I hope that all seventy nine municipalities very directly will respond to our request to register all their facilities in order to do a proper and complete job. I am presenting to the Minutes all registered facilities and, of course, who are the municipalities and who are per category of sports and who are those facilities. In practice, which of these facilities are accessible to SMEs, to athletes with motor problems. And, of course, I put forward a detailed table of which sports centres are supervised by the General Secretariat of Sports, by the Ministry of Sports in detail, because they did not exist either. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augias, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] And, of course, I have to tell you, my dear fellow Member, that for the first time we now have a full picture of the facilities of the Ministry of Sports that are accessible, licensed or not, and of course, which are in operation and which are not. And so we'll be able to make proper programming. I'm putting this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] From the first, then, we understand the usefulness of the platform. Let us, for example, take the accessibility I mentioned previously with the tolerance of the Bureau. On the basis of the entries, we have ninety-three sports facilities that provide access to AMEs, two thousand eight hundred ninety-five facilities are not accessible, while with regard to renovations, a hundred thirty-eight sports facilities have not accepted any renovation projects even once, ninety-eight ninety have not suffered or had to be renovated. Indicative but also very useful information that is certain to help us and the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior and, of course, the entire sports family of our country, so that we can make a prioritisation of our needs, which we have already done at the level of the facilities supervised by the Ministry of Sport that belong to us. Of course, registration and evaluation are still ongoing. Let me say this for the third time at this point. I call on all the municipalities and the seventy-nine municipalities that have not submitted the relevant data on the 'POLOPOS' platform to proceed and complete the registration, but also those who have made recording and supplementing the data to be meticulous, because this is an amazing tool for all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, I am proud of the work that has been done on the maintenance and upgrading of sports facilities and infrastructure during our term of office. I repeat. We have received an abandonment, and we are slowly creating safe and functional sports facilities throughout the country without any discrimination. The results are visible. The image is accessible to everyone. It's not individual or hidden in the drawer of the Minister of Sports. It is accessible to all and, above all, is done through the cooperation of the directly involved. That is why I want to thank both the President of the CEDEFOP and, of course, all the municipalities and districts and individuals who own sport infrastructure, because they too will be invited to join the 'POLOPOS' platform so that we can obtain a full picture and a modern record of sports facilities that we do not have until now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much, Minister. They will not be discussed in consultation: The third question with number 364/15-10-2021 question of the cycle of petitions by MP B1' North Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos (Kosta) Zachariadis to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "Trouble risks from flooding phenomena". The fourth under number 452/17/19-10-2021 question and application for the submission of documents by MP B1' North Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos (Kosta) Zachariadis to the Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "Action for the implementation of anti-military and anti-corruption works". The sixth under number 199/18-11-2021 topical question for the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Harulas (Haras) Kafantakis to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection on the subject: "New Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection". The tenth under number 204/18-11-2021 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Born to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "To immediately renew fixed-term contracts for workers in the cleanliness, feeding and preservation of the health structures of the ESS". The third, with number 206/22-11-2021, is a top-level question for the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Reimbursements by farmers of Tirnavos for the damages suffered since the Ices of April". The seventh question under number 200/18-11-2021 of the Second Cycle of the Messinia MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexandros (Alexis) A gift to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘The inertia of the Government to take support measures leads to the collapse of the income of thousands of Corinthian grape producers’. The fourth under number 195/16-11-2021 is the first question of the Greek Parliamentary State, Mr. Vassiliourdou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Special liquidation of LARCO’ and an assessment of its value’. The first under number 194/15-11-2021 topical question by Evia MP of the Radical Left Coalition.Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Removing the producer attestation for the installation of a five-story wind park in the Municipal Unit of the Municipality of Karystos". The fifth under No. 209/22-11-2021 topical question by Hercules of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Event instead of solving the problems of the earthquake affected in Arkalochori". The first under number 196/16-11-2021 topical question by MP I Eastern Attica of the Radical Left Coalition, Christos Spirtzis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on "Direct action to protect public health and prevent the dispersion of COVID -19 from complying with the rules of social dismissal by invasive policemen". Eighth No 202/18-11-2021 topical question by Mr Stavros Arachovitis, Member of the Radical Left Coalition, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'Funding basic aid 2021'. It will not be debated by the Member, the second with number 197/16-11-2021, at the time of the first question from the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Electronic wiring in the medieval villages of Chios'. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-29-S1-commons.u167	With the consent of the House at 19.44 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, November 30, 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda that has been distributed to you.
