ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 2-6-2021 power, the PLAC's minutes of Wednesday's 2 June 2021, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law, were ratified by the Bureau: 'Election of Municipal and Regional Authorities and other provisions'.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the reports have been read out. Thank you, Mr. Cyranakis. Before entering the legislative work, the House is invited to approve an absence permit from outside from 9 June 2021 to 16 June 2021 from Mrs Malama from SYRIZA. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote at first, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Structuring a) the Agreement on Science and Technology Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America and (b) the Amending Protocol to the Agreement on Economic, Scientific and Technological Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States". We will break the sanctions in two, with the same procedure, but there is reason to be separate and you will understand that then. For the first part, the bill was passed in the Standing Committee by a majority vote, it is introduced to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely, those who object to the ratification of the conventions for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, for five minutes and provided that the President of their parliamentary group does not speak. I think I have the agreement of this House. Now, based on the information I have, "against" of this first convention voted for the Communist Party of Greece and doubted the Greek Solution and the Mera25. Therefore, first of all, at the level of rapporteurs, I give the floor to the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Delis, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to make it clear from the outset that our negative vote on our country's ratification agreement with the United States cannot and should not be interpreted as a general or absolute objection by our party to the existence and development of cooperation between the scientific communities and the universities. In addition, there are many positive examples of fertile international cooperation, which confirm and underline that both transnational and transnational cooperation are key features of scientific research. But both the new agreement and the amendment of the previous one do not belong to this type of positive cooperation on science and research from the point of view of all the people's interests. It is not only that the majority rapporteur joins the agreement in trying to strengthen Greece's diplomatic and military relations with the United States, nor that SYRIZA's rapporteur claims for his party the prize for the paternity of such agreements with the United States, nor even that the rapporteur of the Change Movement describes the agreement as a basic tool, he says "extrovert and part of the country's foreign policy". It is also the fact that the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment in the Committee himself openly stated that this agreement is part of our country's strategic dialogue with the United States, which began in autumn 2019, a strategic dialogue that we are reminiscent of has already brought a military agreement and filled our country with US military bases from Alexandroupolis and Magnesia to Souda, which is all sorts of imperialist war planning. Therefore, and after all, one can easily understand that the agreement under discussion today is actually serving as much alignment and closer connection between Greece and the United States in the context of upgrading relations between the two states, an upgrade sought by the United States, in order to strengthen their influence in the South-East Mediterranean region, while the imperialist competition is being extinguished. The upgrading, however, seeks this passionately and Greece's bourgeois class in its coordinated effort to also claim an upgraded geopolitical role in the same region. And we say in a coordinated way, because we all see the full alignment of all urban parties from New Democracy to SYRIZA in pursuing this Greek capital, which is also being promoted by national - cloaks. It is well known, ladies and gentlemen, that educational and cultural diplomacy, the'soft diplomacy', the'science diplomacy' according to the General Secretariat of Research and Technology in promoting the pursuits of imperialists, as they form additional channels of intervention and integration, both on economic and ideological terms. And not to blame us for chasing ghosts, we suggest you read the recently published report of the American Embassy in Greece, which has the characteristic and revealing title "The malfunctioning state of the Greek education system, a challenge in the field of public diplomacy in the United States, Part 1". In this report you will see, then, how the American Embassy sees developments in Greek universities over time, as well as where they turn their interest in interfering, given that some parts, as they say, of the Greek society are historically reluctant to cooperate with the United States in defence, economic and political matters. This is also the function of various 'tech labels', which operate as enclosures of American influence, rapid data collection and activity that are harmonized in the pursuits of strategic dialogue. Now, if we add to them all the lectures of United States Embassy officials to various university institutions, events, events, conferences, if we add the signature of Memorandums of Cooperation and International Research Programmes, between American universities and NATO as early as 2009, as well as the recent law resolution, which provides for the grant by the Greek contributor budget of the US Fulbright Foundation, i.e. a body to promote the political pursuits of the United States Governments, a prosperous institution whose black past and the beginnings of its presence in Greece in those dark years of civilisation, such as digital technologies and research, the possibility of which is also provided for under the current protocol, which is amended and if we consider the rapid development of investment activities in Greece by American monopolies in peak sectors, such as digital technologies and research, as well as under the current protocol, which is very low-priced and unprecedented technology. That is why we are voting against. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u6	Good. Mr Viliardos has the floor now, whose party had expressed reservations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as mentioned in the committee, this Convention was signed on 28 September 2020 at the visit of the United States Secretary of State, Mike Pombeo to the end of the Trump Presidency. This is an agreement exclusively for cooperation in science and technology, which has previously been part of a comprehensive treaty since 22-4-1980 on economic, educational, educational and cultural cooperation from which it is divided. That must therefore be the reason why the second amendment is amended. Cooperation now in science and technology does not involve defence and security, which, in our view, is restrictive. We do not need to talk about the importance of the United States at the technological level, although competition from China is now escalating. In the United States, however, the deadlocks of globalisation are apparent, so the process of supporting the return of factories has rightly begun, already by President Trump. This process continues by President Biden, despite what he says, with the "Buy American", "Buy American", "Buy Greek", as we would say in our country, in various ways, as in the programme for infrastructure investments. We have repeatedly proposed the interactive support of Greek products, which is certainly not forbidden if we avoid the word 'only' in 'Buy Greek'. The government has, however, preferred to support the media instead of Greek products. He spent almost 80 million of the loan, which he takes and which we and our children will pay in multiples, to manipulate the Greeks. It now controls over 80% of the information, approaching the conditions in North Korea. Continuing, after emphasising that the provisions of today's agreement are general, we have asked various questions in the debate on the articles, looking after their vote according to the answers that the government would give us. For example, in Article 2, we said that there was no mention of the way in which scientific and/or technological data would be exploited from both countries, and we asked what rights would be in the investigation of a large private company that would be involved. We have stressed that it will obviously depend on the agreement, so attention should be paid to the terms of intellectual property that are very important in the United States. However, we have not received any answers at all, as in our other questions. So it's not possible that we don't keep having reservations. We did not even get an answer to Article 4, where we asked whether we could disagree and veto if the United States would like to cooperate with Turkey as a third party or in Article 7, where we asked why the committee chaired by people from Greece from the Ministry of Development, while from the United States people from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. After discussing the expenditure on the basis of the report from the General Accounting Office of the State, with more than EUR 10 million of our country's participation in the financing of twenty-five to thirty research projects every five years, we stressed that of course the expenditure should not include studies of ELIAMEP, which continues to be provocative for our country. In conclusion, we have proposed some actions, such as nickel, which we should be interested in producing electric cars and batteries, possibly in cooperation with the United States, since TESLA has shown interest knowing that we now have the golden lighter "LARCO", with the look of nickel and cobalt. The other proposals were for drones and robotics where there are many possibilities. Also, cybersecurity and computation in general, since there is already a presence of American companies in Thessaloniki. In addition to the pharmaceutical industry, biotechnology, health and hydrocarbon research. Finally, we said that we should consider the promotion of exchange programmes for students, seasonal work and education in the United States, as is the case with 'ERASMUS'. We have not even received answers here, which means that the government is completely indifferent, having now guaranteed the support of the two other memorial parties, the troika of the interior, with which it agrees with all, from the memorials and mortgages of our country to the cannabis and the Greek one. In fact, the New Democracy, the Change Movement and SYRIZA are already informally ruling, as evidenced by various events recently, where the New Democracy only calls these two parties as if there were no more. It seems that these orders are from Germany to facilitate the change of ownership status of our country, by speeding up the sale of our public property and the auctioning of private property, which started the day before yesterday, where the new bankruptcy law was introduced. Their right, of course, but we will never appeal to the national crime that is being committed, hoping that the Greeks will understand it and react before it is too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u8	And we're closing the objections or reservations with Mr. George Logiadis from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ministers, on the current draft law of the Ministry of Development on cooperation in the field of science and technology between Greece and the United States, I will begin with two major issues. Firstly, the huge difference between the United States as a country of enormous potential and Greece as a country of hugely lost minds. I will start with an article of "Kathimerini", in which Professor of Medicine at the University of Stanford, United States of America, Yannis Ioannides, on 18 October 2018 writes: "Forty five Greek scientists, born since 1974, have published jobs with influence on the top 0,1% of global science. Thirty-seven were born and grew up in Greece. Of the forty, the nineteen are in the United States. Most managers of leading universities or research institutes." Some brilliant names: Constantine Daskalakis, Professor of Computer Science at MIT, Manolis Kellis, Professor of Computer Science at MIT, George - Marios Angelettos, Professor at the Department of Economics of MIT and much more, of course. "In Greece, funding for research as a percentage of GDP falls short of Turkey and Mexico. The overall picture shows the gradual revival of the most proactive young scientists. Mobility is desirable. What is most frustrating is that no young man without a Greek name and with a corresponding influence does not work in Greece". That's all the professor writes in his article. "Greece cares about science and knowledge. I guess he's not even interested in surviving. The Greek universities are tolerated islands of excellence, but their main objectives are others: to be the dumpster of all parties, to recycle paradoxes, to provide income from rentals, to convert incompetent teachers to incompetent politicians, to maintain the level of cultivation at the lowest possible levels and to simply give degrees for them. We are exaggerating in all these areas. Individual exceptions to enlightened university and scientific students are available to confirm the rule. Effective solutions require a total overthrow. The professor continues: "I understand how utopian it is to expect honest agreements from the professionals of the controversy. The conscious choices of the Greek leadership are proven incapacitated and decay, systematic ignorance and desirable decline. To do serious science and provide decent education today are forms of guerrilla war. I bow down to those who are still resisting, Yannis Ioannides, Professor Stanford. The second major issue I want to raise is this in relation to the renowned Greeks and how the Greek state treats it with the draft law on the vote on redundancies. Mera25 is the only party that voted in 2019 Mr. Theodorikos' law for the vote of the results. We cannot have Greek citizens of two categories. They don't play games with the emigrants and the renowned Greeks. The proposals of Mera25 are specific for an equal vote of Greeks of the diaspora. I now specifically move on to today's draft law. I shall refer to Article 3, which provides that cooperative actions will be carried out for mutual benefit on the basis of the overall balance of advantages. But that is completely theoretical, general and impracticable to us. Unfortunately, for us this cooperation alone cannot be with the United States and the professor wrote it beforehand in his article. Article 3(e) refers to the promotion of the protection of the intellectual property of the safe and inclusive research environment. The question raised, Minister, is: How many patents have we developed here, how many are we selling, how many are we buying for them? Mr Ioannides also mentioned in his article that no foreigner, no American does work in Greece in the field of research and technology. In Article 8, collaborative actions shall be subject to the availability of resources. Of course there is no comparison between the resources available to the United States of America and Greece for research and technology. This agreement was signed on 28 September 1920 in Thessaloniki. Do we wonder whether Thessaloniki is a semantic character, because it is about northern Greece? Will it involve the possibility of Thessaloniki and Alexandroupolis with the new pipelines, will it involve the development of new energy storage technologies, will it involve new forms of hydrogen production, will LNG involve Google and technological colosses? In Article 13 we have two signatures from one of the Greek Government and one from the US Government without names. We don't know who's signing this deal. It gives us questions and doubts as to whether or not all the information in the text of the draft law is mentioned. In this agreement, we consider that there may be classified and confidential information. In conclusion, I would like to say that we should finally learn from the Americans not to leave our children's minds abroad, Brain Drain and, on the other hand, to incorporate the migrants into Greek reality. We in Merra25 will vote 'the present'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u10	Now, asking once again, is it not compulsory or provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but have we agreed on this at the Conference, Mr Gregoriadis wants to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u11	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u12	Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister spoke just before me, my dear colleague and partner, Mr Logiades, and explained the position and attitude of Mera25 in the conventions that we are voting on today. I am here as a Parliamentary representative to comment on what has been said, which, in our opinion, is far more serious than that of everyone, and which, if I may say so, certainly nothing but the excellent start of the auctions and the loss of the first residence and professional residence for two days, just since 1 June, by the Government of course of New Democracy. Let us not forget, of course, that it is a ferry that the SYRIZA government has opened with its third, fourth memorandum, and basically with the abolition of the Katselis law, a void which should somehow be replaced by the institutions and the troika. However, the fact is, Minister, dear Mr Georgiadis, that the project "HRAKLIS" seems to have begun to give you as a government. And I say to you, it is because since 1 June, the day before yesterday, our fellow men are losing their home, their first residence, which of course ends in predators. And take note here of an interesting note, in my opinion. They end up in the predatory funds through bankrupt funds for ten years, quadrants, pennies, banks, which have been recaptured throughout this decade by the citizens themselves, who today, through these banks, are losing their homes, which are reserved for the predators. Mr Georgiadis, I must congratulate you, because the project 'HRAKLIS' really seems to pay off. In addition to the 12.5 to 13 billion to be spent on the state, the bankrupt is already costing several tens of thousands of first homes and professional roofs, which will end up in the predatory funds through bankrupt banks. Which banks? Those banks that, if they were natural persons, would have lost their home - to understand it in here - would have lost their first residence. Why? Because their loans would not be red, they would be purple, they would be flames burning in the penis, the exterior. The more bankrupt than citizens, who lose their homes and their shops, are the banks, which, through their toxic red loans, who have been rid of the predators, eventually grabbed by houses, recapitalised with 75 billion over the last 15 years by these poor citizens themselves. Music in the cathedral. That's amazing, too, Mr. Georgiadis. And that's why you're in charge. You know, they've opened a lot, but not the bars. You will tell me 'but, after we've opened them for a month'. You haven't opened them, because bars without music are not bars. It's coffee, it's restaurants very sad, with small tables that don't fit or have your food eat it, but it's not a bar. Because the only noticeant difference, that is, difference that creates different kinds, is music in bars, because drinks can be found everywhere. In all the coffee shops, drinks are served. Most restaurants, in all good, but also in the meters and in the small ones, drinks are served as food is served everywhere. So, the warning difference is music. And what's the interesting thing? Why am I saying that? First of all, I say it because I'm interested in bars. I'm interested in why bars are a spot of evacuation for civilians who are about to shut up if you get caught by their noses. After twelve years of suprapartmental memorials and a year and a half of coronary time they will have to go to the bars, especially young people who have been deprived of them for a year. What are you doing? Do what you know to do better than the principle you govern here, communication policy instead of politics. So you announce that the bars are being opened, but the bars are still closed, since no fellow citizens go to a bar to leave their nice money when this doesn't have music. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Also, exactly the same as bars are gyms, the same logic. You opened the gyms. I have a bad habit of working out on my fifty-six, scary of coming to me, and I mean old age! So I went to the gym. I assure you, it is impossible for any citizen to work out without having a heart attack or a heart attack under the conditions you have set, that is, with two masks trying on a bench to raise whatever weight he thinks he should raise. It can't be done. You do not policy, you do communication policy, the one you govern with, and you leave them closed. Now you open them, you pretend to open them, just like you did in the bars I told you before. So here's how you're transferring the cost of your Lockdown to the citizens. Do you know what I was told at the gym, Mr. Georgiadis? I was told, "Dear Mr Gregory, we want you to pay us an annual subscription," they just opened. I said to them, "I'm sorry, I paid you an annual subscription, which has not expired last year, ends in a few days and booked for seven months". They told me "We did not close on our own responsibility, we closed with the government of Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Georgiadis". And I said to them: 'Good, why do you transfer the cost to us?' They said to me, 'Why are we going to go bankrupt'? Mr. Georgiadis, do you hear that? I tell you sincerely and with the will to cooperate so that they do not go bankrupt. They told me “We will go bankrupt because we have been wet dry. After a year and a half we have three and seven, that is, ten months in total, unless we collect the advances, we have no luck in operating. And we'll give them to you," they told me, after 12 months, when my subscription is over. When my subscription is over, it may have been intermediated, the non-sex, another lockdown, the fourth or the fifth wave. And I close and leave you alone, Mr President, with this. By the way, since we are discussing costs, I would like to tell you about my colleagues. You know, my colleagues have very serious problems. In France, in Spain people performed experimental concerts with five thousand people, tested before and afterward, they saw how they were stuck without masks, with masks, they saw after days what a viral load was shifted to plan to open up their culture at some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u14	Come on, Mr. Gregoriadis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u15	We have done nothing, Mr Georgiadis, and instead we are still trying 15 months later blindly, tracing to find out who the people of culture are to give them a five-and-a-half. By the way, you haven't given them the fivescotch of April and May. Give it to them why they're starving. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u16	Of course, I would remind you that, by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure, the parliamentary representatives who decided unanimously in the Conference of Presidents are on the bill. If you are going to talk about saying anything other than the bill, if you'll excuse me very much, we may have to review it at the Conference of Presidents. Another thing is to say something else to talk about anything other than the bill. In any case, we must not create tension now. Mr. Hetas doesn't want the floor. Mr. Pafilis has been covered by Mr. Delis. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u17	I won't talk. We're set up for the bill. We attach great importance to the country's international cooperation. What governments need to keep in mind is that efficiency and issues, which are in every agreement between the country and another country, are judged during the negotiation. So what we need is not to come here and then say 'wrong one, wrong the other', but the agreement is ratified. I believe that there must be some kind of participation of Parliament in the consultation by the government with the other country in order to prevent matters and not to be formulated, agreed and then come here for simple ratification. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u19	I want a minute too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u20	I'll put you all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u21	I have three questions for the Minister. The first is whether he is pleased with the development of civil security, which was a basic promise of the Government of New Democracy when he was opposition. The second question is whether Mr Portugal's proposal reassured him that we should not worry about why the gangsters are killing each other and having a good objective. And the third question: Because we do not all have the confidence in the gangsters, which Mr Possalte has, if he intends to give any training money from the Recovery Fund to ensure that the gangsters have a good goal. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u22	Mrs Maria - Helen Soulis - Vilialis. I said all your titles.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u23	Mr. President, excuse me. They talked about... (Don't hear), but we have an entire agenda to develop.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u24	I fully agree with you. And your protest is perfectly justified. I think I was clear. They're sanctions, let's close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u25	Mr. President... (It has not been heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u26	Mr Heta, do not make me remind you that many times and you, your President, are speaking of an alpha bill, and from one hour to the next, he speaks ten minutes about the bill and forty out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u27	It's his right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u28	I said the reality now, don't ruin our hearts. I gave you right. I said it myself before you protest. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. SYRIZA continues its fruitless opposition tactic, trying to dismantle the entire government's policy by means of a general disaster, whether in matters of security or in matters of extrajudicial compromise. He isolates events in a way of gheebs, in order to gain some impressions and question everything and everything. And unfortunately, I have recently noticed that even moderately and professed executives are entering the dance. Rather, because of the non-social response, political despair has occurred. Let it be, as long as Greece goes ahead, it changes for the better. The government and the Prime Minister will be there for everyone, even for you, even without you. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to ratify in plenary the agreement on cooperation in the field of science and technology between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America. We are essentially called upon to take another step in the strategic direction decided by the Greek Government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who is no more than the country's active involvement in the field of scientific research and innovation where technology leads to evolution. This political decision is not yet an option for the country. It is a one-way, which separates progress from delay. Because anyone who does not understand that adapting to new dynamic technological data is a criterion of social and economic development, it is clear that the modern context of the development process at world level does not understand. Greece as a country that promotes stability and cooperation has a dense grid of allies and partners. A characteristic example of our strategic relationship with the United States of America, which allows us to move on to a series of actions which have positive effects for both countries' citizens, particularly in a sector such as technological development where the United States of America is the top of the spear at world level. It is clear that the interaction between our research centres and our scientists can only result in positive consequences for the country. Therefore, today's ratification is a sign of a new Greece, which confidently opens its eyes to the rest of the world. It interacts with comparative advantage, its excellent scientific and research human resources passes into the green digital age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u30	As you know, there are no seconds. We will close with the Minister, who will have a little more time, because, on the one hand, he must be placed on the draft law and, of course, after he has been provoked, reply, if he wishes, to the questions which have been asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. A first comment to our colleague Mr Tsakaloto. Dear Minister, I am extremely pleased to represent a government, which, in the midst of a pandemic like the one we are going through and with the forced problems that this pandemic creates in the economy worldwide, the former SYRIZA Minister for Finance has as his sole concern what a well-known journalist, Mr Portasalte, said or did not say on SKAI's television. The fact that you, a former Minister of Finance and approved, realise that economic issues have been solved and that you have no concern to ask about them and that you have time to deal with Mars Portuguese and whether or not we like his opinion is the best proof of the success of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you, Minister! A warm applause to Mr. Tsakalotos, is worth it, for what he did a while ago! In order to prove why our Government in the middle of its term, as you all saw yesterday, enjoys the highest percentage of acceptance by Greek citizens, against all the governments of Transition until now: because the Qualification is concerned with making an opinion and censorship on what alpha or beta journalist will say on television. I would like to reply to you: what Mars Portuguese says is what every journalist in Greece wants. Fortunately we still have freedom of speech. However, to come to this point a little, ladies and gentlemen, today's agreement is something important for the country. It's not theoretical at all. I give a lot of opportunity to Mr. Villardo to highlight his seriousness. He usually avoids these opportunities. What was Mr. Villard's argument so that he wouldn't vote for the agreement? That it does not include, he says, defence and security issues, etc. That was his first argument, because there is a second one, to which I shall refer. It is well known, Mr Villarde, that Greece is signing a separate strategic defence cooperation agreement with the United States and, of course, the relevant defence and security cooperation provisions would not be in our cooperation in technology, but it is in our great agreement on our strategic relationship. I imagine you understand that. So the reason you vote against is false. The second is, however, even worse than the first one, that the Trump government was supposed to have started transporting factories to America, so it is not interested in making investments in Greece, etc. So let's go, ladies and gentlemen, get them in a row, figure out what our government has done over these two years for what we are debating today, and what results it has brought. Mr Kegeroglu, I agree in principle with your proposal. It'd be good. And I, the next chance I get to sign it, I'll keep it. I'll get it to the committee first. I think it's right. However, politics is ultimately a measurable issue. It's not theoretical, and what we say here or the channels. It's what kind of fish we catch, what effect we have. So let's go see what our government has done about this. We were elected on 7 July 2019. I was the Minister of Development two days later, following the mandate of the Prime Minister. One of the first orders that the Prime Minister gave us was to work to exclude Greece from the 301 list of the United States of America. It is the list in which the United States writes countries, the so-called 'black list' of intellectual property theft. Unfortunately, for too many years Greece has been on this list of 301. Indeed, my first trip to this issue took place in New York in September 2019. The dialogue with the US Embassy and the participation of Mr. Pierracakis' Ministry began. Indeed, a few months later - here is the relevant post, which I am tabling in the Minutes - in April 2020, the United States took Greece out of the 301 list of countries involved in the theft of intellectual property. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] This decision by the State of the United States is extremely important. It was basically the beginning of the procedure, which we are talking about today. Because as long as a country is on this list, any American high-tech company and company that produces intellectual property products is forbidden to make any investment in the country that is on that list. Well, first, we worked very well myself personally to get Greece out of this list. And Greece came out of this list. After Greece has come out of the list, the way has been opened, to sign the agreement that we are currently dominating, for which we worked together with Mr Christos Dimas - and I particularly want the Step of Parliament to thank him for his contribution, since he had the leadership of the relevant negotiations at technical level - and we agreed with the then Secretary of State of the United States, Mr Pompeo and Thessaloniki that we signed our agreement at a ceremony, if you remember, which had also been very publicized. Indeed, Greece had similar agreements with other countries: China, with Israel, with Russia. But he didn't have one with the United States. This agreement has been the first agreement of this kind with the State of the United States of America since 1980. Can you imagine how much our world has changed in the field of high technology since 1980? Can you imagine how we lived in 1980 in relation to technology and how today? We're talking about the time before the internet, before the cell phones, before all the things that have made our lives completely different. The agreement we had with the United States concerned at that time until 2020 and our government completed the negotiation and signed the agreement. One will now say: "Good, Mr. Georgiadis, you signed it. It is a good thing, in the context of the good relations between Greece and the United States, that we now have three parties here. For fortunately in this area we now have a coincidence of views on New Democracy, SYRIZA and Change Movement, and that is very good for the country, and we have all contributed three to building close relations with the United States of America. But that's a more diplomatic matter. You're the Minister of Development. Does this have anything to do with jobs? Does it have any impact on investment? Or is it, as Mr Villard says, a feather?' So let's go see what we've achieved these two years in the field of high-tech investment in Greece by US companies. I don't put them all. I only put on the patches. The first and most important one, without getting out of list 301, could not have succeeded, because it could not even put us in the candidate countries, is the emblematic investment of 'MICROSOT'. I imagine you know her. I would like to say in passing that this investment is progressing normally within a timescale and we are very pleased. Investment amount: EUR 1 billion. I'm doing a parentheses here. We competed between nine countries and Greece was chosen between nine candidate countries to make the investment in Greece by "MICROSOT". This investment could not be achieved either if we remained on list 301 or if we had not proceeded with the signing of the agreement, which we are currently dominating. Two weeks after the announcement of MICROSOT's investment, another US colossus in the high-tech sector, not as well as MICROSOT, but as well known for those who are aware of high-tech technology, DIGITAL REALTY, a capitalisation company of over 60 billion dollars, also made a very large investment of 400 million euros, again in the data center, by buying the Greek company LAMDA HELLIX and starting the construction of a giant data center in Greece. PFIZER was the first major investment in the high-tech sector, which was closed by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. It was announced to PPC in September 2019. Term to make this deal was to get Greece out of the 301 list, which is what happened. Already in Thessaloniki, the digital center of PFIZER has been established, which is now well known because of the vaccine. Our initial agreement, which was booked in my office, was to become the recruitment of two hundred computer engineers in Thessaloniki. Today it was announced that three hundred people have already been hired. The company has informed us that it intends to upload the recruitments to the five hundred, precisely because it is extremely pleased with the good quality of the people it found in Thessaloniki. And to tell the Greek MP, who is present, this: To tell your town that he has taken us as representatives. After "PFIZER" and after announcing its investment, CISCO was followed by a special training centre in Thessaloniki and plans to extend it. Then, “EE” established in Athens an artificial intelligence centre, while “APLIED MATERIALS” acquired from the Scientific Park of Patras the company “THINK SILICON”, expanding its activities in Greece with investments of hundreds of millions of euros. And that's just the big ones, the emblems. This is what you are voting on, Mr. Villarde, when you are approving the agreement today. That is what you are voting against. And that, sir, is not a feather, it's work of people, it's taxes, it's progress for the country. And it's shameful to say that he's a patriot and pro-progressor and go out and say what you said before here, that it's all theoretical and there's nothing practical from behind. If there is an agreement that has back investments and real jobs, that's it. So what you did is what it looks like? It shows you probably haven't studied and stayed in your well-known opposition oestrus. I'm not talking about the JRC. The JRC has a consistent attitude. It sees the United States and says 'no'. If he said here about the Soviet Union, he would say 'yes'. I'll take it. We don't have to argue. It's just things. Whatever we say, since it has a star-storey, it will say 'no'. But you're the ones who play it more readable and great...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u32	Good, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u33	So, in order to come to this point, this agreement is a product of hard work, of organised intergovernmental work, of great discussions with the previous one, but - I must tell you - and with the present American Government, which fully continues the same policy in the field of relations between Greece and the United States, because - I repeat - it is based on a construction of strategic cooperation with the United States of America, which now serve successive Greek governments, from the government of George Papandreou, Antonis Samaras, Alexis Tsipras, Kyriakos Mitsotakis. So, with an unprecedented continuity for Greek political things, good for Greece, because this raises our credibility abroad and makes us more reliable allies and partners...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u34	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u35	... and as a result - and with this I shall immediately conclude, Mr President - to bring to Greece jobs, investments and, most importantly, transfer of high-tech know-how, which is something that Greece absolutely needs, so that it can compete equally with the other nations. And whoever loves Greece cannot say no to it! That's enough! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u36	For ethical reasons, because the government has typically been covered by the Minister, for three minutes I give the floor - and we close it - to Mr Dimas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u38	I've already given the floor elsewhere. Let us finish, Mr. Villardo. You will have the opportunity to talk to the next one and you will be answering it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u39	I will not speak in the next agreement, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u40	You're welcome, Mr. Dimas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Very soon I want to say a few things about the agreement between Greece and the United States of America on the part of research and science in answering some questions. I think I have covered this in committee too, but there is no problem repeating it again. Mr Kegeroglu referred to the fact that he would like some kind of information during the debate, the negotiations with the United States. I should like to tell you that this agreement may have begun on the day of the present government, but you realise that an agreement, which has two sides, is also being discussed at service level. So, Mr Kegeroglu - you have a great deal of experience - you realize that the services of the two countries have sat down and discussed in summary trying to find the best solution. In reply to Mr Villardo, on this issue, you are wondering why the US Department of Foreign Affairs is signing on behalf of the United States. I do not think we will point out to any other country, with which we sign a bilateral agreement, who, with which department, we will sign up. In any case, let me say that the discussions on this agreement started in the strategic dialogue with the United States in the autumn of 2019. Then, in our visit to the Minister, Mr. Georgiadis, in the United States, we met the head of the White House for research and technology, Michael Cratso. Then we went to Maryland, to the National Science Foundation, where we talked about service factors over there. We have seen that there was indeed a strong interest in such a bilateral agreement, which could favour more synergies between research centres, universities, researchers and businesses involved in research and development in the two countries. It was to sign the Agreement in March 2020 on a mission coming from the United States to Greece. Due to the pandemic of the coronary this was transferred and became a few months later, where Mr. Georgiadis signed from Greece and Mr. Pompeo from the United States side to Thessaloniki. And I think that in a relatively short time this agreement has been ratified by the national Parliament, in fact opening up new routes for research and innovation between the two countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u42	Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. I don't have much, just because the Minister has distorted what I said, I wanted to make it up to you so that my words don't become uncomfortable. The first thing I said is that cooperation in science and technology - I stress it, in science and technology - does not involve defence and security. So she's restraining. It was about science and technology, no other contract. I understand very well that military contracts and others are something different. The second - and I really do not like the screams and expressions of the press - and all these things, I return them to you, I hope you do not do so again - because I did not say that we would vote against, I said that we have doubts and that is why we will vote'represent' - is that none of our questions were answered in committee. We have asked a lot of questions about the agreement - the Secretary-General can tell you - and none of our proposals have been answered either. So when you are indifferent to us, we cannot continue to have doubts. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u44	Minister, would you like a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u45	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u46	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u47	I shall reply only to the Greek decision to vote'residents' in this agreement. At Thucydides in "Eptafios" there is the following paragraph: "Only gar the zero-participant no-participant, but horribly we think, "Only us, the Athenians, the Greeks, the non-participant" - is preferable to "no" for the Greeks and the Athenians - "in things, we do not call him peaceable" - but notice the ancient text - "harmless, useless", "Eptafios Pericles". Let the rest be judged by your voters. I have explained to you that the agreement has already brought to Greece investments, jobs and transfer of know-how. If all of this is what the Greek Solution wants to be, let it be present. We'll move on without you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u48	Good. (a) the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Science and Technology between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America; and (b) the Amending Protocol to the Agreement on Economic, Scientific and Technological Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of the draft law and the vote will be taken separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u49	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u50	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u51	(b) the Amending Protocol to the Economic, Scientific and Technological Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America, and (b) the Financial, Scientific and Technological Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America, was accepted by a majority of the articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u53	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue with the next draft supplementary agenda: Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: 'Following Annex XVIII to the International Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of Specialized Organisations with regard to the World Tourism Organisation'. The draft law was adopted by a majority vote in the Standing Committee and entered for debate in Parliament in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. those who object to the ratification of the Convention for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, may speak for five minutes, provided that the President of the Parliamentary Group does not speak. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u54	The House has agreed. At this point, I would like to inform you that "against" voted for the Communist Party of Greece and the Greek Solution, while Mera25 was reserved. So we start with the Communist Party of Greece and specifically with Mr Christos Katsotis. Here, Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. I would like us not to leave the Minister's attitude unanswered as regards the position of the JRC in the previous Convention. The Minister tried to overcome the JRC's arguments with his well-known tactics, which says that if he were from the Soviet Union, he would say 'yes' and if he were from the United States, he would say 'no'. The JRC shall be placed in each contract on the basis of the criterion on which it is benefiting. This contract serves, supports, strengthens the profitability of monopolistic groups, the dictatorship of capital. The arguments developed have not been answered and they are the ones which define the contract. With regard to the present Convention, the Government brings the Annex to the International Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of Specialized Organisations, with regard to the World Tourism Organisation. We are talking, in other words, about the privileges and immunities of representatives of tourist monopolies, rather than about measures to support thousands of workers and self-employed persons in tourism, who live under very difficult conditions. The World Tourism Organization is the only organisation in the United Nations, which has members from the private sector participating in its governance structure. This is what the World Tourism Organization reports on its website. Below - in support of this - and with regard to pandemic, it notes that the World Tourism Organization in this crisis is seeking to ensure with the World Health Organisation that health measures are implemented in ways that minimise the impact on international travel and international trade. This claim of business groups promoted by the World Tourism Organisation has been met by the government since last year with the adapted health protocols, which resulted in the second wave of the pandemic in 2020. To minimise the impact on international travel and international trade, which the World Tourism Organisation ensures in cooperation with the World Health Organisation, in order to continue the profitability of monopolies has the effect of maximising the effects on the health and life of workers and the people. The World Tourism Organization, the UN Organization, is active and promoting the planning of the powerful imperialist forces, as is the UN as a whole, which has nothing to do with the one who was before the overthrows of socialism. With his decisions and actions he serves, he supports designs of imperialist centres, powerful monopolistic groups. In addition, the World Tourism Organisation, as he informs himself, participates as a hundred fifty eight states, six cooperating members and over five hundred members representing the private sector, the monopolistic groups of tourism. Under this Convention, the functions of the World Tourism Organization are to be included in the provisions of the International Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of Specialized Organisations, ratified by Law 471/1976. We note that the World Tourism Organization is subject to the UN, so it is occupied by the provisions concerning these agencies. This Convention and paragraph 1 shall extend the provisions concerning immunities and privileges to representatives of associated members participating in the work of the World Tourism Organisation. Paragraph 1 shall refer to associated members and shall mean six small, basic countries. Paragraph 2 shall in particular refer to specific privileges and immunities concerning the representatives of the associated members. The World Tourism Organization's website shows that it concerns the involvement of the private sector, i.e. tourism monopolies, non-governmental organisations, research institutes. And the SETE of our country participates in the board. Paragraph 3 shall contain extended privileges and immunities, hetero-rights, sealed mail, etc., to experts from the Agency. Madam Minister, are the experts with the status of extended privileges permanently employed by the agency? Are they proposed by Member States, or are they designated by their monopolistic groups, the ‘tour operator’ or others? And that, of course, is not clear, because that is indeed the case. In paragraph 5, the extended immunities and privileges recognised to experts shall also be recognised to the representatives of the associated members concerned by paragraph 2, i.e. to officials of tourist monopolies, provided that they are experts of the Agency. Given that the status of the expert is not clarified, and regardless of how we are generally standing on the issue of immunity and privileges, with paragraph 5, you recognise the protection of officials of monopolies, the same status as for diplomatic staff of international organisations. The World Tourism Organization is the organization, which typically belongs to the UN, but in fact serves the interests of monopolistic groups. This Convention seeks to protect them more effectively with expanded immunitys and privileges themselves, representatives of entrepreneurs. The amendment accompanying the Convention is even more provocative, since it gives immunity and privileges to participants at the conference that is already taking place in Greece, without specifying why such rules are necessary. What you're writing in for their safety, Minister, is contradictory. Is the country safe, yes or no? What is the point of bringing this amendment? Civil governments, on the one hand, ensure privileges, immunities, facilities for capital and its representatives and, on the other, for workers and the people policy, which spread poverty, insecurity, deadlocks for their profits, together with restrictions, prohibitions, repression. And since time is running out - and I thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance - we would say that this ratification relates to the objectives of the groups, to their immunity, to strengthen their privileges and exemptions. It is a challenge to workers and the people, which is narrowed by a policy that implements their choices and has nothing to do with the concerns of workers, especially at this time when many are unemployed and many live with 9 euros - at most - in the day. It is a challenge, and we know, very well, that when you are invoking the country and talking about the events that benefit the country, you mean those who are doing business in the economy and not those who work and produce the unstoppable wealth. Many events have taken place and it is well known who benefited. The monopolistic groups, and not the workers, who are the lowest paid in our country's economy, have benefited from the worst working conditions, despite all the billions of euros that are then privatised by the large groups. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u56	Good. Mr. Boubas Konstantinos has the floor from the Greek Solution. Here, Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. What happened? 'Dove ministro', which is said by the Latins, namely 'Where is the Minister?'. He's gone now. 'Solitudine'! ‘Veni, vidi, vici’...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u58	The Minister, Mr. Booba, if you refer to Mr. Georgiadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u59	Yes, I am referring to Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u60	...has gone because it's not his ministry's, this contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u61	Yeah, and his bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u62	It's simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u63	As long as the Greek Solution is in here, it'll be annoyed. What can we do? As far as the World Tourism Organisation is concerned, it is not just a matter of competence but of conferring power on which there is neither an auditor nor an audited authority. That's why we're negative. Tourism brings social messages, it's multiclical, it's the beauty of a country, it's the mirror of a country. We cannot grant this power to these specialists from the World Tourism Organisation, Minister, because we do not know exactly how they will move. When there is no control, when there is no auditor and controlled, things have a mystery veil. They cannot be moved, they must be moved quickly, when the individual enters a process to move. They actually don't account for anything, not even the Ministry of Tourism. They enjoy immunity - within introductorys -, they have this infallibility, they are considered to be authorities, they and their families. That is, the greatness of globalisation. It'll be on a neural post, like tourism, this heavy industry without even checking out. So we cannot give these privileges to these specialized tourist advisors. Let's go back to history. The World Tourism Organization became - and good - the United Nations institutions in 1970. However, I would like to focus on one word, as the first international conference of national tourism organisations in London in 1946 decided to create a new non-governmental organization to replace the International Association of Official Tourism Organizations, the International Union of Official Tourist Propaganda Organisations. The word 'propaganda' tells us a lot. So through tourism, there can be a propaganda. That's why we're negative when these people aren't controlled. That is why we do not just have reservations, but we put the question of whether it will pass a historical message that distorts the history of the place, a social message that is not appropriate, a false geographical designation. Tourism is not an abstract concept. It is as the mirror said, reflects the culture, history, the mentality of a people, of him and of his ancestors. Who's going to control them? There are these subparagraphs, as in paragraph 5 and 6, where these privileges are mentioned, which have been analysed in paragraph 3, namely experts. They shall apply to representatives of associated members acting as experts, but to the Deputy Secretary-General of the Agency and to his spouse and minor children. In other words, there is an expanding application of privileges to more people. I could discuss the paragraphs in detail. We have referred to the committee. But look, when we bring sanctions here, it's not typical, it's important. I remember the agreement we made with Japan when the Japanese violate today the issue of fauna and flora and marine wealth - they kill whales - when the Prime Minister of Japan meets secretly with Erdogan for the Audiy nuclear reactor. We have reached agreement with Qatar when Qatar is cooperating with both Turkey and Libya and is responsible for the death of over six thousand workers in recent years, which has stacked them in the containers to build football fields for the Great World Cup. We sign a contract with Montenegro when the biggest gangs of hashish and marijuana are in Montenegro. So we must be careful about the sanctions and conventions in general that we are signing. For many years these conventions, like the present one since 2008, have been ponding, but it wants attention not to say "they are just contracts and will go to sanctions". We want to see the other side of the currency, what a contract can hide or what impact a contract may have. I'll be done. Of course, Mr. Georgiadis is missing. I would like him here because he has tabled a great deal in the Minutes today and he has not been able to answer Mr Villardos. Speaking yesterday and for self-government, I will answer Thucydides, but here I will submit to the Minutes, dated 14 June 2011, to the then State Secretary Kegeroglou. This comes from Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Ploris. In the Greek Parliament, on June 14, 2011, Mr Kegeroglu. I laugh because it says 'violences of law by collecting companies against citizens - debtors' and bring it to Parliament by two Members at that time, Mr Georgiadis and Mr Ploris. Today, collecting companies are calling for micro-credits. At regular intervals there are complaints - more than four hundred complaints in 2020 alone, twice as compared to 2019 - to the Citizens' Counselor and Mr. Georgiadis, who was opposed at that time, says that with the collecting companies the state will be built up. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm just filing it out, so we can see that other things a man does in general, and he's more careful about what he's saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u64	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u65	In closing, as he said about "pietafion", Thucydides wrote: "The opposition to the ruler is being held, which means "He who will go against the potential is called a municipality". City equals people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u66	We're moving on. Mr. Logiadis from Mera25 has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it's good to see you here. You also went to Crete recently. First of all, we welcome the President of the World Tourism Organization, who has come to Greece for a formal bilateral visit. Today, we are talking about the "Preparation of Annex XVIII to the International Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of Specialized Organisations" concerning the World Tourism Organisation. The current draft law falls under Article 28 of our Constitution, which refers to the rules of international law and international organisations. To mention that the World Tourism Organization is the United Nations Office dealing with promoting global tourism. Before the outbreak of the coronary pandemic, tourism was at the highest level of all time. One out of ten jobs worldwide depended on tourism and in 2019 the arrivals of international tourists reached one and a half billion people, with growth until then. I would like to refer to the situation of tourism today, because it is of enormous importance to our economy. I would stress that 'EUROCONTROL' has given us very recently that normality, as we know it, for international flights will return in 2025. The first huge problem is that there is a huge lack of liquidity from everyone and from businesses and workers and we ask the Ministry - and from finances, of course - to support tourism in order to survive. Mrs Zacharakis, you mentioned some of the issues I wanted to talk about, such as relaunching. You have also referred to marine tourism. I would like to remind you that the top destination of Greece, which is Santorini, has been submerged for fourteen years by the 'SEA DIAMOND', which needs to be lifted. It's a time bomb, it's an environmental bomb. In a similar example in Italy, the sinking of the 'COSTA CONCORDIA' - another equivalent ship - took place within two years. This is there for fourteen years and it pollutes the environment. You referred to the IKUs in the country. I think you've been to Crete recently. You went to the tourist profession schools, if I remember. The road to a tourist area, this street that goes to school is a pity. There's gonna be accidents. He's been like this for three years. Also, this tourist region has no biological area. You understand what that means. I shall also refer to IEK Corfu, where we had complaints and information that nothing is encouraging about the survival of IEK, but also about the intentions of the government. They report that the four sections of 2016 with the eighty-five students became twenty-six this year, with over five hundred students. It is a fact that we believe it is a great success for Corfu, but also for a training course that is closely linked to the largest revenue of our island's local economy. The facilities and logistics of the training centre are at such a level that even advanced tourist schools like Tunon of France, with three thousand students, are amazed and rewarded by the organization and the know-how of IKK Corfu. Also, our working partners - they say from IEK Corfu - the associations of hotel operators, restaurants, tourist agencies and rented apartments, seeing the work that is being done, have rewarded us with their trust and with the acceptance of our students. In 2016, IEK collaborated with four hotels and this year it reached sixty-four. We therefore ask that IKK should not be devalued and that there should be further recruitment of staff. I shall refer to the regional airports you mentioned, Madam Secretary. I will say that our major airports are unfortunately sold out. I should like to refer to the hotels, which are also beer sold out, and also to staff, which is not Greek, but most of them are, unfortunately, foreign. You said to increase the quality of the product. But we see over time from SETE data that in 2000 the average per capita tourist cost was 814 euros and in 2019 565 euros. I would also like to refer to another issue in the Ministry of Finance, but it has to do with tourism directly, saying that it is not possible to show interest in fixed expenditure by 17 June, which has been designated by the Ministry and the Ministry of Finance for the accountants, in order to submit their statements. In conclusion, I should like to refer to today's draft law. We as a PART25, when we read that it is a matter of total immunity from immunity from what is called or written by officials of the World Tourism Organization, do not understand why there must be immunity to them. So we're going to vote against this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u68	Now we're going back to Mr. Gregoriadis. I've shown you tolerance last time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. You have seen that tolerances bring good results. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I wanted to explain to you right from the outset why exactly we are voting against today's convention at Mera25. We are basically voting against it, mainly because of the extraterritoriality. In order to understand the people who are listening to us from the outset what this means, Minister, this means that various counsellors and experts - in the good sense - of the World Tourism Organization, who will try to advise and with know-how to help develop our tourism, if there is any legal involvement of them or even worse for them, when they perform their duties I repeat on Greek territory, they are determined by the draft law that you are going to pass today, if they are to be tried by the courts of their countries, in their home countries. And that, Minister, is, in our view, a very serious problem, because it is an indirect confession that Greece is not a favoured country, that is to say, a confession on our part, and I mean a uniform one. I think we are one side of all the politicians in Greece. It's like we say we're bananas, sorry for the expression, we're colony. In such circumstances, in the conditions of colonies or bananas, contracts are made where people plunge to help the underdeveloped, the Greeks, that is, if they slaughter and make Greeks upon their joy, they will be tried at their homes. In normal countries, this is not the case in favoured countries. Also, Minister, this immunity, without a bad option, unfortunately reminds us of other immunitys you have received, for example immunities for the members of the Financial Stability Fund, so that they do not account for the economic crimes they are committing us against the Greek people these days and the previous days on SYRIZA. But recently, in another bill, you again voted for immunity. Immunities are something that comes back as if you had before the idea that some of your chosen ones would be able to outlaw them. Why so many immunitys? We at Mera25 say any immunity for any reason, like the normal Greek people, and we MEPs themselves and the ministers and the Prime Minister, if one day we have a Prime Minister. Also, Minister, it relates to Greek tourism and an issue that arises, although it relates more to the previous Minister than you, Mr Georgiadis, who was here for the previous contract, is what kind of development we are looking for, what model we have in mind. And it seems that at least the Minister of Development has this model of enclosed over-priced tourism where we close the Greek - how many dozens of square kilometers - we make casinos, gambling, swimming pools, full tourists who live in Greek, do not come in contact with us "dirts" - are shackles expression, dirt, they were those who sat in the soil during the time of the Elizabeth theater - they don't get dirty, they stay there, they play their golf, they do their gambling in their enclosed town and what we do? We give our children for their servants - their waiters - in the good sense I say this - and we ourselves because we are ageing and we are unconscious and very poor and filthy, we are being transferred according to the model of Hawaii - to you for twenty years in Hawaii - to favelas closed in the inland, fences so that the tourists don't see and disguise in the lower side of the country. The second part remains to be confirmed. I can't charge you. You haven't. But the first thing you're planning is that. You plan casinos everywhere like the problem of Greece after twelve years of your memorial to be where the Greeks will gamble. But that's not it. It's where the Greeks will find a job. It's how the Greeks will keep their first residence. It is how Greeks will continue to have collective agreements. I tell you very well, Minister. This development model is a dead-end model, because it destroys the Greek people and does not bring the expected revenues to our tourism. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u70	Mr Hetas, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u71	I would only ask for the floor to be recorded, because we spoke earlier, as we reporters off the record, so nothing has been recorded in the Minutes and I want to convey our protest, Mr President, to the party today. I don't want to open a dialogue. You know my personal respect for your face and the institution of the President of the Parliament. I would therefore like our strong protest to be recorded because the Greek Solution, I think, is - and is an opinion of all colleagues here in these two years - a model of workability, consistency, compliance with the Rules of Procedure and I think no one can say anything about us. When, by way of derogation from the respected Bureau at the Conference of Presidents, we take a decision and say 'Re, children, so that you do not whine, in order not to cry, you want the parliamentarians to speak in the procedure laid down in Rule 108 when it comes, in fact, we respect it'. Believe me that we have too many issues to deal with with with with the government, but we respect the procedures. So, then, we are on the epic and see what a turn in the debate has taken today. So we either respect what we agree, a gentlemen's agreement, or do what we want here. This is addressed to the Bureau, not to you personally. Because we want the political opponent to have him here, face to face, he is gone and because he is a man of impression, not of substance, of voice, of theatricalism, etc., we are all judged in this life, I would like to say to Mr Georgiadis this, Mr President. It's a pleasure to bother him. It is our pleasure that the Greek Solution is annoying the New Democracy, the Government of the New Democracy and Mr. Georgiadis. Of course, the Minister of Development, he says, was formerly disturbed by Karanika, formerly disturbed by Zafe. Now, as a political stimulus champion, he is disturbed by the Greek Solution. Now there are two things going on. Someone left some political belief. We, because we are concrete and do not move a millimetre of our political beliefs, I think Mr Georgiadis should go for a service in his political compass, because he has confused where the north is and where the south is, he has lost his way along the way. He's learned in the hails. And I'm closing up with it. It was confirmed once again today that the only party, with these ten MPs, of the ten political lions that are in here, is the only party that makes a substantial, hard opposition to the government. What did Mr. Georgiadis do? "Speak" again the troika of the interior, while the KKE always puts it as a special case, it has its philosophy, its ideology, so the Greek Solution remains. He'll stay and be here to control him. It will be so opposition, Mr President, that you cannot imagine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u72	It is not the Bureau's job to become a press office of government ministers. I am sure that Mr Georgiadis is following the meetings and at the first opportunity he will respond to everything you have charged him with. Mr Katsotis has spoken from the Communist Party. Mr. Kegeroglu, on behalf of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, I will start by saying that there should indeed be no personal retaliation and insults. Politics must deal with matters. Of course, Mr President, I am aware of the decision taken by the Conference of Presidents which is different from what has been said here. Because just a lot of parties, including our own, wanted to take advantage of the five-minute period, we used the reservation method many times. The Conference of Presidents raised the matter and it was decided that the parliamentary representatives of those voting either 'yes' or'residents' should also have the right to speak. But the reservation was cut. It's no longer the reservation for you to be considered to be against the bill. At two o'clock in the Conference of Presidents I will clarify it. I'm coming to the point of the bill. The pandemic overthrowed heartbeats and entrenched perceptions. The pandemic has shown false political choices, development standards, which are essentially beyond and outside human needs, and has reminded us that it should be at local, national, European and, above all, global level to return to the centre of human, health, his environment and his needs. At national level, we have a consistent view, which also corresponds to the traditional view of social democracy for sustainable development, green development, with social justice, using modern technology. All that pandemic showed incorporate within our proposal for an anthropcentric progress and prosperity of the place. Global cooperation is a key issue for the future. It was, and it is. The pandemic has indicated that they should be accelerated. Global cooperation and European integration will give safety to the world in which I first developed in order to protect and respect the earth, our world and, at the same time, to create the conditions for the better lives of people in the land, without discrimination of color, religion, geographical residence or country of origin. And this is an important bet, which has to do with the World Health Organisation and the other organisations that need to be activated in this direction and are not typically present. This international convention about thirteen years ago has such characteristics. Of course today, in my view, it is not enough. It needs a review, it needs a activation, at least what has been agreed at the time to take flesh and bone. In this sense, we support and vote for the convention. On the occasion of this debate we raise the big issue concerning our country, tourism and the period that we have already entered. It is an important step that the committee responsible for the European certificate is discussing tomorrow. The European certificate, despite any objections, is the passport, which, together with the complementary measures, I think can give the preconditions for relaunching tourism. Apart from the European certificate, however, there must be, as it seems, transnational agreements with those countries, which are customers of Greece and we have significant tourist current. I am thinking of Russia, America, Israel and, of course, the United Kingdom, as well as other countries, such as China, which is, of course, the longest period. There must be a transnational agreement here and now, essentially, to adopt the European certificate in the context of this agreement and to facilitate the maximum efforts that are being made and which must be stepped up to relaunch the tourist season in the best way possible. We are therefore voting for the contract and we ask the Ministry of Tourism to be activated in the direction of transnational agreements on the certificate, with countries that have significant tourist current in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u74	Thank you. Mr Aylonite, because your parliamentary representative is missing, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, thank you very much for giving me this opportunity. I would like to point out two serious issues to the State Secretary. The first issue is about the IKK Tourism of Corfu. Because the issue we are discussing today, the ratification of the international convention, is related to tourism, I would like your Ministry to show particular interest in the amazingness of the whole case. This is an institution that produces executives, which take place on the next day of their graduation, and at the moment the only person who is permanently staff is the manager. Everyone else is on fixed-term employment contract. I would therefore ask you to give special attention to this. The second issue, Mr President, which is related to tourism, is the worrying reduction in the rate of vaccination. I'm going to tell you traits, since I'm from Corfu, and that's where I'm elected, that two, three days ago, the vaccination center was inaugurated. The first day five hundred were vaccinated, the second two hundred and yesterday one hundred fifty. It comes down by reducing the number of vaccinated people and this is a negative condition for our tourism economy, our homeland, this characteristic...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u76	What interpretation do you give for your neighbors, which reduces the number?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u77	It's not just, unfortunately, for our neighbors. It is the fact that all the political forces had to emphasise, in order to convince the Greek people that vaccination and the percentage that we can achieve will be what will give not only security to us personally, to our families and to society, but it will also be the safest incentive, competitive I would say, at all levels of tourism competition, on an international level, I mean, of course, because safe health tourism is the one that will achieve the maximum results. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me this opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u78	Now, Mr Brutsis, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. First of all I must congratulate all the parliamentary groups, the overwhelming majority, who are voting for the Ministry of Tourism's recommendation. This, Mr President, shows a climate of consensus on a very important issue concerning our country. And you, as an islander from Andros, know very well how important it is to win the tourism bet this year. It is the Minister, Mr Zacharakis, here, present in the discussion process, Mr Lotomas, rapporteur for the bill. I would like to add two, three thoughts which I consider to be important as a Cycladic, as I am very interested in winning the bet this year for both local and national reasons. I have heard Mr Kegerolgus and the SYRIZA rapporteur and I would say that I have no objection to what they have said. I just want to add, ladies and gentlemen, that the government that currently represents our country is doing everything it can, is doing everything it can. And I say it not as my political status as a member of the New Democracy, but as a citizen following things in my prefecture in the Cyclades, who I follow things in general. We are doing everything we can to convince the last citizen to the need to be vaccinated. Especially in island Greece, which is the big bet, which is the procurer for tourism, I saw that we ran the issue of islands with up to ten thousand people, has become universal vaccination on them. I have five islands left: Paros, Naxos, Mykonos, Santorini and Syros. There's the vaccination, too. This is done universally throughout Greece. We are working with every possible means through hospitals and health centres, but also with our political position every time to support the need for tourism. Unfortunately, there is the regrettable thing, Minister, that part of the population is negative in vaccination. It's now found out. There is a variation between islands and mainland Greece, but it is a percentage. These people must understand, Mr President, that they do not jeopardise themselves alone, they also jeopardise the country's great wages for tourism this year, because, for example, Cyclades and the South Aegean region as a whole, 90% of GDP in this region is tourism. If, uh, oh non-responsibility, because of irresponsibility and because of conscious choice, no one is vaccinated and relentless and moves like he thinks he should move and put himself at risk, he'll put an entire island in jeopardy. The message will be very negative for the country. We live from tourism. We expect the revenues from 2021, Mr President, to reach the way we have put it in the budget in 50% of 2019. This is the big bet and we are making every effort. I would like to say congratulations to the whole world of tourism, to the accommodations, to the hotels that have been prepared for this year. They have done a good preparation and all people hope and expect us to reach this level in 50% of 2019 this year. It is the responsibility of all of us, Mr President, all of us, of all the political parties. I will not show that someone has more or less responsibility or is directed at a lesser tension towards the world. We all do, because we feel the need to convince the last citizen to be vaccinated. This year the big bet starting from yesterday, since June 1st, is to be vaccinated as many as possible. The digital certificate, Minister, is an achievement. The Prime Minister, the Ministry of Tourism, as a whole, ran it, we are one of the first countries to do so, and this will also be an additional incentive, an aid element for the completion of this effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u80	We close with the Government's position of the Deputy Minister of Tourism, Mr Zacharakis. Here, Mrs Zacharakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, thank you very much. I also thank Parliament's tolerance, because I did not have a physical presence in committee, and I thank all the parliamentary groups very much for their tolerance of getting on the Internet. I would like to convey the greetings of the Secretary-General of the World Tourism Organization, which, together with many Ministers of Tourism, Undersecretaries and High Representatives from the relevant Ministries - you know that in many countries there is no separate Ministry of Tourism, may be in development, may be in other ministries - they are present and present. And I think, Mr Bouba, that this phrase 'propagate' if we look a little for dictionarys, perhaps even because of my capacity as a professor of English literature, we will see that it also means 'I share ideas'. If, then, the idea of the safe country, which is welcome with a smile and a hospitality known to all those who are here and convey this message back to the countries, let us be the ones who will do so and we will always be happy to do so with clarity and transparency. Because you mentioned the issue of propaganda, I think, if you were not wrong, I wanted to clarify it. So I would like to say that we have the chairmanship of the Regional Tourism Committee, Mrs Kundura, to say, to the Secretary-General. We continue the presidency and we will reclaim it. And I'm saying that, because there's always an effort. The objectives set by each government are different. We say that shortly after the recovery fund, the NSRF and of course the sustainable development objectives of 2030 - Mr Gregoriadis, you mentioned the goals - balancedly and in all our policies the issue of sustainability in tourism, blue and green - that is, you will see that it will be dominating and of course you will be able to assess it as Disarmament. I should also like to say that two articles have been added by the Minister, so there is a legislative improvement and other provisions. It is obviously about the same subject that we are discussing, about the privileges and immunities of the dedicated agencies, about the World Tourism Organisation. I have an answer to the representative of the JRC, Mr Katsotis, because you have put it in committee too, and I have to clarify. They are officials of the World Tourism Organization. You know, it can be technical experts, expert, but they always have contract with the organization. We are talking about people, namely, who have a specific employment relationship with the global organisation rather than something in general. Also, for the substance, many times there is obviously ideological, in this part, a dimension for participation in international organisations. I'll tell you my personal experience. Many years in international and European forums, there is an exchange of best practice and the fact that we can at this time advertise how well we did it last year, but also how well we did it in distance education in tourism, I think it is good for the country's prestige, but also for them to take an example of how it is in Greece. Also, Mr. Logiadis, as you mentioned, IKK Corfu was a very important issue. At the moment, the assistant secretary, who has staff issues, is making every effort. He has already moved an employee from the regional tourism service to the IEK and earlier than we have ever made moves with the Ministry of the Interior, so that the people who are recruited every year - but this is a year's practice, it is not now that we have contracted teachers in our schools, our IEKs - to be recruited earlier than ever. I must also announce that I am broadening my practices - a press release will come out - for our IEKs because I was responsible for the subject of education and the curriculum. I am broadening the practical opportunities for our students and students. And this is very important because they will have greater opportunities, to have more businesses to get children to do their practice. I think it can also help to find the possibility of finding immediately after work. I think that Mr Katsafands has answered you on the subject of the 'SEA DIAMOND'. You have tabled a timely question and the Minister has come and answered you, Mr. Loyadis. Also, with regard to schools in Crete in Lassithi, we wanted in a more innovative and innovative way to give from there the message of the importance of local and authentic, what it means to be able to come to taste local flavors, gastronomy. Gastronomic tourism has high priority for the Ministry of Tourism and I will make every effort to be able to spread this message everywhere. Mr President, I would like to mention to you - because you are very experienced parliamentarians - that this part of the contracts you know already has a course since 2008, which has been ratified and, of course, quite rightly you say that we need to see updates every time. So we obviously accept the comment that is being made on this. However, I should like to raise the question of transnational agreements. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I take a little more time because it's a chance to say it. Transnational agreements have been made with Israel, and this has certainly enabled us to come earlier - and I mean earlier than the official opening of tourism - in the country from other countries, provided that they have had double vaccination and also PCR. This much earlier than the rest of the countries. For the rest of the countries now I have to tell you that there is the initiative taken by the European Commission. So on the basis of the regulation which will be put into effect, with the digital certificate, then the European Commission makes the agreements with the other countries. Of course the Minister has already gone to Russia, and you are quite right to say that it has a very great value to have the full information and to open up a market from there - as in many countries, Romania, Serbia, etc. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] It was in Mexico that Greece received the prize for the safest start of last year by the World Tourism Organisation and it was a very important moment for all of us, essentially for the professionals and workers of your region, because they credited this effort for the prize we took. Every worker right now, who receives a smile on the traveler, wins this prize. And because this opportunity to be here, I think, is unique, because it is a topicality of great interest, to convey some general thoughts about the opening up of tourism, without abusing your tolerance. We have already counted more than fifteen days from the official opening of tourism, and it is an opening, and I must tell you that we have worked very hard, with a plan and, above all, a coherent one. Because those who follow us very much measure the consistency of words and actions. You know they're tough judges and competition is intense this year because they opened up more markets. So we must consistently propose words and actions from there, and of course we must also give all the tools to workers and entrepreneurs to move forward. An opening that - you know - society itself was asking for and coming and supporting it. Let us talk a little about what was happening with tourism and how much it contributes to the economy. The direct contribution of tourism to the economy of the country is 23.4 billion. It's about 12.5% of GDP. Of course, if we measure what happens with the past economy, we will see that all this works multifactorically and in addition. Of course, as I said, it is the multiplier and indirect benefits of tourism - its overall contribution to the economy of the country is between 51 billion and 62.1 billion. The economy of three island regions, the South Aegean, Crete, the Ionian Islands - and of course the North Aegean - is very dependent on tourism. More than 90% of the income of tourist activities comes from abroad. It is therefore also an export activity. On the other hand, let me also mention what we want to pay particular attention to - because we are usually talking about arrivals from abroad - internal tourism. I would also like you to convey to your regions the great importance of the fact, Mr Brutsi, Minister, that this year we are able to extend to the 'Tourism For All' programme. A very large EUR 100 million programme that started last year, is continuing this year and we can say that we have also made facilities. It is a personal objective and direction given by the Prime Minister and the Minister to me to find ways to facilitate the programme. It will be a great pleasure to all the families who have been put under pressure to take this subsidy and to visit part of Greece. Of course, with 100% subsidy for people with disabilities. We want this to be a horizontal possibility in an inclusive manner so that it is not excluded from this possibility of traveling. It is something that is timely and I say that I now give, Mr Load, three days to business to state by 10 June. Let the new providers say, let us give citizens the opportunity to travel. There will be new communications from the Ministry on when citizens themselves can make the applications, the new beneficiaries. We will, of course, inform all the parliamentary groups in good time, because we want the message to be disseminated. In 2019 he created six hundred seventy thousand jobs and this is our pleasure. And we want to continue to see this thing because last year we accepted this whole vertical reduction. And those of you from the island regions saw that. And I'm from Karpenissi, we've seen it. In mountain tourism right now, we have two years that we really have moments that are very difficult. And I think it is important that what you will allow me to mention - and this is not propaganda, but it is simply an analysis of measures - which are the measures taken by the Greek Government to support the Greek businessman in order to be able to have the worker, because there is no business without a worker and without an undertaking. And I think that's a common assumption. Six cycles of repayable advances are currently running the seventh, exceptional financial aid to the tourist workers, a "CONTACT" programme for the protection of jobs, a suspension of the fulfilment of insurance and tax obligations, an extension of the leases of tourist accommodation, a reduction and cover of the insurance contributions, a loss of rent and compensation of rent, programmes for the strengthening of liquidity, "GEYRA II" and, of course, the very important ESRB programmes that are now coming to help the Greek businessman to reopen, the 420 million announced by the Ministry of Development, the Minister of Adonis Georgiadis, the Deputy Minister of State at Giannis Tsakiris, who will give the breath at the time he needs. And if anyone asks reasonablely and well-meaningly - I think - that they are coming in a year that has already begun, I would remind you that European procedures are too heavy and are usually multi-monthly. So we need particularly good coordination, which has been carried out by the Ministry of Development, so that we can have this huge programme at the moment. Of course, it is also the issue of subsidies that are currently in place and the hotels and accommodations, rooms for rent, camping, agency and tourist buses. I don't want to tire you any more. I shall mention, and of course you will be informed of the vaccination certificate, the Greek initiative which is coming to be another weapon in our patronage for this year to facilitate the movement. I would like to go a little bit on the subject which we are actually discussing. We are talking about issues relating to ratification of international conventions and not just about our country, Mr Gregoriadis. All the countries that are currently working with the PDO have the same ratification and the same sections, because you have asked each other. It's not a banana matter. On the contrary, we have secured a framework. Of course, this really is about the functioning of the Agency, and the United Nations Organization, as well as the agencies that cooperate. I would like to come to the committee, if you would like, at some point, to see a little bit of the next day, to see what we are doing about the ESDP, what we are doing about the Recovery Fund, and to inform you of the planning of the Ministry and the State Department for a very large event on tourism education with the presence of the Secretary-General of the World Tourism Organisation in November. It is with pleasure that your representatives are there, so that we can advertise even better what we are doing in tourism education and bring it up, because we are basically a country that can give good practice. I shall therefore conclude with two thoughts on the subject of ratification of the annex. It is necessary to strengthen the country's credibility, prerequisites for the proper organisation in which representatives of the United Nations and specialised organisations are involved. I would remind you that such an old organisation as the World Tourism Organization - it has already been counting since 1970 - is some organisation that we can take and give best practices and, of course, a good way to advertise our country with the presence of so many ministers who have come here. They'll leave with a good picture of the country. The country's on its way to vaccination. Of course, speeding up the message is very important. It is also important, however, that we will soon be able to reach six million vaccinations. We will have reached about a very high rate of population vaccination to reach the immunity wall, and of course we continue the protection measures. I got sick, and I can't stop saying the coroner's here. So we continue with measures and move on so that we can go even better for Greek tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too. The debate on the principle, articles, amendment and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism is adjourned: 'Following Annex XVIII to the International Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of Specialized Organisations with regard to the World Tourism Organisation'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendment and the whole draft law and their vote will be taken separately. We note that the vote includes the principle of the draft law, the first, one amendment, the hotel article and the entire bill. After registering your vote, you may check it or revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u84	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u85	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: ‘Following Annex XVIII to the International Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of Specialized Organisations, with regard to the World Tourism Organisation’, was accepted by a majority of the uniform in principle, Articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u87	The House has given the mandate requested. The minutes of the sittings were distributed on Wednesday 3 February 2021, Thursday 4 February 2021, Friday 5 February 2021, Monday 8 February 2021, Tuesday 9 February 2021, Wednesday 10 February 2021, Thursday 11 February 2021, Friday 12 February 2021, Friday 15 February 2021, Tuesday 16 February 2021, Wednesday 17 February, Friday 19 February, Monday 22 February and Tuesday 23 February 2021, and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u88	Therefore the minutes of the sittings of Wednesday 3 February 2021, Thursday 4 February 2021, Friday 5 February 2021, Monday 8 February 2021, Tuesday 9 February 2021, Wednesday 10 February 2021, Thursday 11 February 2021, Friday 12 February 2021, Monday 15 February 2021, Tuesday 16 February 2021, Wednesday 17 February, Friday 19 February, Monday 22 February and Tuesday 23 February 2021 were ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-03-S1-commons.u89	With the consent of the House at 12: 25 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, June 4, 2021, at 9: 00' on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a) the debate with No. 15/13/23-2-2021 on the current question of Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance on the topic: 'A catastrophic government policy in the penitentiary system and b) the topical question.
