ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: In accordance with Parliament's 16-9-2021 authorisation, the minutes of the PA meeting were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Thursday 16 September 2021 with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Lecture of a code of legislation on integrated maritime policy in the island area and on the implementing mechanism, state supervision and general conditions of implementation of the Transport Equivalent’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we move on to the debate on the agenda for today's topical and urgent debate, let me first announce to the House the topical and urgent debate on Monday 20 September 2021, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1036/10-9-2021, a topical question by MP Kavala of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Sultana Eleftheriadou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The participation of OLAF AOO Kavala 1965 in Super League 2". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 1049/13-9-2021, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: 'To remove the discrimination of agricultural parcels from the legacy of rural rehabilitation of Mirasia refugees'. 3. The question, under number 1043/13-9-2021, by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "To ensure the jobs and the rights of workers at the hotels of the Cyprus Group in Kos". 4. The question by No. 1038/10-9-2021 of the Greek Parliamentary of Serres Mr. Konstantinos Boubas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Reactions and inconvenience to the creation of a granite quarry in Achladochori Serres". 5. The question asked by Mr. Angelikos Adamopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on "Serious Complaints about the placement of containers from the Municipality of Athens as temporary school rooms of the 153nd and 154th Athens Prefectures in Patisia". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1053/13-9-2021, a topical question by Pella, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jakri, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Manufacture of the Almopia dam (Kaleis)". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 1047/13-9-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Questions on the North Axis of Crete". 3. The question by No 1044/13-9-2021 was raised by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The immediate withdrawal of the avengeral dismissal of a large-scale worker in the area of Platania Chania, Crete". 4. Under number 1035/10-9-2021, a topical question by MP I Athens of Mera25 Mr.Adamopoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: 'Super League II Championships: Extreme problems and unfair treatment of PAE AO Kavala 1965'. 5. Under No 1050/13-9-2021, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “Participation of the PAE AO Kavala 1965 in the Super League 2 Championship”. 6. The Question No 1039/13-9-2021 by Congressman B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment of the Environment of the Energy industry, on the subject: "Panachian Mount and Aegialia: Wind generators in the protected areas". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under number 1054/13-9-2021, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Leaving of land and sea zone of Linoprams in the Municipality of Malevizios". 8. Under No 1055/13-9-2021, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The prolonged mini lockdowns in some prefectures also impose both immediate and substantial support measures". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by Mr Charalambos, Member of the Parliament, Mr Haralambos, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Questions about the financing and the cost of the tolls of the North Road Crete (BOAK)". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 8034/15-2021 by Congressman Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingero Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Additional to the list of ICES crops under cover". 3. The question and application under number 8379-679/2-8-2021 by MP B2' West Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Standardisation of high-high-voltage lines in Saint Anargyros, Saint Varvara and Aegaleo". 4. The question by number 8108/19-7-2021 of the SYRIZA MP Drama - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophilos Xanthopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Continued degradation and dismissal of Drama Hospital to medical and nursing staff - government reluctance to provide substantial support - cleanliness to contractors - merger plans and abolition of hospital units and clinics". 5. The report by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, entitled "The review of the exclusion of radiology laboratories from the responsibility of operating hybrid imaging systems". 6. The question and application under number 8403/682/2-8-2021 by MP B2' West Athens Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The irrigation to private individuals and the account to farmers". Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the following: "We hereby inform you of the debate on the topical and urgent questions under the parliamentary control of Friday 17 September 2021 that Question No 1048/13-9-2021 will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridonas - Adoi Georgiadis. Question No 8455/6-8-2021 pursuant to Rule 130(2) of the Rules of Procedure Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos. Question No 1046/13-9-2021 topical and urgent question under Rule 130(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Theodoros Doulakakis. Question No 1037/10-9-2021 topical and urgent question number 7730/2-7-2021 pursuant to Rule 130(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Stylianos Pechas. O Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Stylianos - Ioannis Georgiou Koutnazis". We begin with our second question under number 1048/13-9-2021 of the second cycle of the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Protection and support of households and especially vulnerable people, following the wave of appreciations of basic consumer goods'. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, if the evolution of the consumer index in August and annual inflation of 1,9% according to the Greek Statistical Authority's bulletin are alarming and a bell for the development of the economy, the first charges on households, the first charges on consumers are unfortunately a reality. I am referring to the first charges because the increase in the operating costs of each category and the increase in production costs are reasons for a second wave of increase in basic consumer goods, in all products. We therefore have a reality that we now have to deal with, and my question seeks to see all the measures that can be taken to protect the consumer with the first stage increases and whether the measures already announced are the whole of the measures or whether there will be a supplementary one. And the second point is how we intervene so that these appreciations which have specific causes - from energy, transport, external factors - can make use of the institutions available to us - whether these are the regulators or the Competition Committee - but also the instruments of fiscal policy that we are dealing with, so that we have the least possible impact on consumers and the least possible impact on the competitiveness of our economy, because we are living in a globalised environment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. It is now up to the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Georgiadis, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. I preferred to speak from the Step, Mr Colleague, because the question you are asking is very important in the context that we are experiencing. First of all, to take things in turn, because if we don't understand a problem, we won't be able to solve it. What's happened? We had an economic cycle that had a steady flow by 2020, when the pandemic suddenly came into the world economy. The pandemic, in addition to the problems it has obviously caused to health, has brought a great, unprecedented uncontinuation to the global economy. All of a sudden, all the economies of the planet have closed. To deal with this unprecedented event, governments proceeded with expansion programs that are now globally estimated to have exceeded 14 trillion dollars. So we have a stop to the economy and a great deal of liquidity. At the same time, in the development of 2021, we had a simultaneous opening-up of all the economies of the planet. What's the result? The great turbulence that has come to the international economic cycle since the closure to bring about a great turbulence during the opening. Is that a normal development? It's actually not just a normal development, it's an inevitable development. To say it simply means that the Greek citizens who are now watching us will understand it, it's like the oscillation that makes a spring when someone pulls it. When you pull a spring, he can never return directly to the equilibrium position. It will always have to make some resentment, reduce the energy that the system has put in and then continue in the balance position. The economy works exactly the same way. At the same time, the economic opening-up of the economies has brought very high demand for products, very high demand has led to a shortage of means of transport, a rise in fares, a sharp increase in energy consumption has increased the cost of energy and the high demand for raw materials has brought about an increase in raw materials. So this brought to the global economic system a wave of inflation. In fact, the United States of America announced the largest inflation since 1971, and the Federal Republic of Germany for October was unprecedented for Germany of 3.4%. What's going on in Greece now? Is Greece in a better position than other countries? Answer: Of course not. We are still much better, especially because you have referred to the issue of competitiveness. Average annual inflation in Greece this month was 1.9%, as you rightly said, this is the fourth lowest inflation throughout the European Union. I repeat that Greece is in the four lowest inflation countries in the European Union. And according to the September precedents, we are probably going to the second best position in the European Union. What does that mean for what you asked me? Does he say anything about the citizens who will see increases in the household basket or in their everyday lives? He says one thing about our debate: it is not the endogenous problem, it is not the cartel problem, it is not the problem of speculation in Greece, because if we had this overtop problem of international prices, we would not be in the last positions in increases, we would be in the first positions in increases. However, in order to exclude the slightest possibility, in order not to give businessmen the feeling that it is time to make irrational increases by making use of the international wave of appreciation, both the Consumers' Secretariat-General makes unstoppable daily checks - on a weekly basis thousands - and the Competition Committee, as you know, last Friday, made a surprise attack on all the supermarket chains, but also on the wholesale chains, just to check that there is some sort of market modeling, at least in certain products. In addition, we have retained our market provision that puts the margin of profit that companies may have in relation to the profit they had in February 2020. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] In other words, companies selling basic goods cannot increase their profits more than February. In this way we can also do checks and check purchase invoices and sales invoices, but also find some who have exceeded 20% and impose fines on them. In order not to abuse time, in my dentistry I will mention all the financial measures that we have taken so far to relieve the so-called 'household basket', to alleviate the average Greek business, to alleviate the Greek citizen. However, I only close by saying, in order not to create a false picture of the reality, that according to the data of ELSTAT recently made public, the available income of Greek citizens in 2021 continued to increase mainly due to the reduction of taxes and insurance contributions brought by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, which gave the opportunity to both businesses and households to have more money for investment and for consumption. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u6	We thank the Minister, who, although he is of the theoretical sciences, realized that Mr Kegeroglu is a physicist and gave him an example of physics. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u7	And the President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u8	I'm a physicist, of course, but it was a successful example of talent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u9	It depends on the rate of 'K', Mr President, and the choice of the spring. If it's degressive, there's a lot of turbulence, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u10	They never stop at once.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u11	...when the system is not insulated, it may, unfortunately, enhance talent. Greece is an open economy in the globalised system. It should therefore see how it will best deal with this effect of external factors with the least possible consequences. And with regard to the findings of what happened, small disagreements can be made, depending on the perspective that it analyses and sees things. With regard to the impact - and I would again raise the issue - in addition to the measures already taken and announced - and you mentioned today whether in your opinion there will be more to support and protect consumers - in order to tackle the problem, we should also go to the heart of dealing with the problem. We should look at the issues that have to do, for example, with energy. Are we just going to monitor developments and strengthen the consumer, but will the government continue to produce high prices, or does it intend to intervene in the price-forming system, as it has done, because it distorts reality and the large increases in electricity do not respond to the real increase in the costs of companies? Should we look again at the question of the system under which pollutants are imposed in relation to our position vis-à-vis the European Union and ask for things? In my opinion, yes, this should be addressed. Because both gas dependency and the pollutant stock exchange lead to huge increases that do not respond to the increase in production costs, whether from RES, sunlight, air, or from lignite that continues to hold a great deal of energy production. As far as cost of production is concerned, its increase in product production today has not yet affected consumers. It will, however, affect the next period. The tariffs paid by farmers this month are too high. We must therefore find a way to pull back on these increases, which will be passed on to the consumer. The 6% reduction in VAT on feedingstuffs is very right. Is that enough? No, of course not. All plant production is exposed to these increases. One of the 20 elements is feed. We should therefore see how we interfere with all the factors affecting price formation, so that we have the least possible impact. It is clear that there is no way that there will be no impact, because the family budgets are already being charged. However, we must not leave self-regulation or try to deal with a problem that is not treated by contractual measures. You have referred very well to market control, so that there will not be a wave of secondary revaluations without cause. That's something real. But here, I want to see how we are dealing with the cause of the problem. That is why, apart from having co-responsibility with other ministries - and that is what you can invoke - I ask the government as a whole on the issue of energy, so that we see important things aimed at restoring energy prices or seeing a framework of fiscal measures similar to that of reducing VAT on animal feed. All rates of VAT, for example, should go to production at the lowest level. All the coefficients! And this is, of course, not only about addressing accuracy, but also about the need for our economy to open its wings with the end of pandemic and to be able to find a stronger way in the European and international context in terms of competitiveness. This must be examined by the government. All rates of VAT on production should be reduced. We need to look at the issues that have to do with fiscal policy and employment. You need to connect it to employment. Measures were announced in Thessaloniki. I think that's not enough. On a permanent basis, the new job for the enterprise must mean a reduction in taxation for the enterprise, more than the exit. We say - and I conclude with that, Mr President - that for every 1,000 euros in new intake to be depreciated to the company for 1,500 euros. We are clearly saying that any investments relating to digital technology and the environment should be directly depreciated. So all this, along with the protection measures, can give us the result we want to protect consumers and, at the same time, strengthen our businesses for tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u12	And we thank Mr. Kegeroglu. Here, Minister, the reason for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u13	First of all, you will allow me to read out the details of ELSTAT which were just announced yesterday, Mr President. I've kept them on my phone so I won't be wrong. My dear colleague, I have studied history and archaeology at the university and not in physics, but I have always been very much an appeal to the positive sciences and physics I had always "20", as in mathematics. So I have to tell you - and you may understand - that the economy is not a mere addition or a deduction, but is a multifactorial equation. You said about the price increases in the tariffs received by the producers. It's true. At the same time, our producers are selling all their products at the highest prices in the last ten years. So they also have a higher income than sales of their production. It's not just the one side we have to look at. We have to look on the other side. Today, Greek producers, for example in oil - I say an example where there is an increase in the price for the household basket - have the biggest increase they have ever had. So we look and what they collect, not just what they spend, so that we can get the result. As regards, my colleague, what is going on with the Greek economy, I would like to read in this House yesterday's communication from ELSTAT: 'For all businesses in the economy with an obligation to keep duplicate books, for which data is available on a monthly basis...' - Listen, Mr Kegeroglu - '... the July 2021 turnover was 25.364.077 euros, with an increase of 24.3% compared to July 2020. In this respect, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. Note, the increase for accommodation and catering services in July 2021 compared with July 2020 - July 2020 we had no quarantine measures, the economy was open, and so was 2021 - is 172%! For businesses that were suspended in March 2020 with the obligation to keep bibliographic books, the increase reached between July 2021 and July 2020 at 58.1%! Again, there was no quarantine in July 2020 or July 2021. Yesterday's ELSTAT figures show that unemployment in August 2021 fell to 14.5%, lower by two points than it was in the same month in 2019, before the pandemic. I would remind you that at the beginning of the pandemic you had anticipated the possibility of an unemployment eruption as a result of the pandemic. Not only did this pandemic explosion come, but unemployment is falling at high speed thanks to the government's proper economic measures. In general terms, as far as the economy is concerned, I must remind you - as a good colleague I am sure you know them - that the government has revised its forecasts from 3.6% of the budget to 5.9%. This allowed us in Thessaloniki to announce a series of new economic measures. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] You will allow me, Mr President, to speak for a few more minutes. And of course, Mr Colleague, I can't help you reading the international financial press. The company "MODY'S" yesterday uploaded the forecasts for the Greek economy to 8,2, the "CAPITAL ECONOMICS" at 8,6 and so on. Let's not mention one, because we're gonna waste time. In other words, all international analysts, who are watching the Greek economy, are talking about a small economic miracle. Today, in a large financial newspaper in Germany, there is a full page on how the Greek economy takes off, how its tourism went better than ever and how Greece is one of the few - four if I remember correctly, writes - European countries, which so soon managed to heal all the consequences of the pandemic and has a extensive mention of the economic measures taken by the Greek Government. It is not possible, Mr President, for the Greek economy to run at these rates and not to listen to and listen to a 'bravo' too. So we're not doing anything? Is she running alone? It is absolutely clear, therefore, that the economic measures that we have taken so far had an extremely positive economic footprint and we tell the Greek citizens that, as we have faced the previous crises, which have taken place during our governance, the crisis in migration and the crisis in pandemic, so we will now face with reasonable, wiseness, soundness and effective measures, the crisis of inflation coming from abroad. In terms of energy, you will allow me to say a few things to people know about. The choice of humanity and, above all, of Europe, to deal with dirty energy and reduce carbon dioxide emissions is not an option that can cause political controversy among us. It is about the future of our children, our granddaughters and perhaps the very survival of the human species. So it is the first and highest priority. The European Union therefore welcomes these objectives and welcomes the Greek Government with the impoverishment taking the lead in this effort. But people know that increasing the cost of pollutants is now so great that lignite becomes the most injurious form of energy for PPC. The more we produce lignite energy, the more PPC loses money. In order to increase the production of RES, to change the energy mix and to lower the price of energy, the sale of 49% of the TEN has been made, which will lead to the renewal of the network that will allow RAE to give more and more permissions to button in the system many more, the tens of new investments in the RES sector accepted by the Greek Government and I personally as the Minister for Development and my colleague the Minister for Energy. And they are also subject to legislation by the end of the year that will improve further, they will give more space to the RES. This will soon address Greece's high energy cost, which is a reality. With regard to the average household, Mr Colleague, the measures we have announced in the IGC are, I think, sufficient, since the state will cover the entire increase in the average household and the average business. So no one should worry about power increases on their behalf. As far as the major industries are concerned, where there really can give them a competitive disadvantage, most of them have closed contracts with PPC and are protected for a relatively long period of time from the great price rise. We all think - it will appear if that is true - that these great increases are due to the oscillating that I have spoken about before. To explain the 'K' you mentioned, because, as I told you in physics, I was always very good, to tell you, to measure 'K', that last year we woke up one day and oil had zero dollars. Just as long as you had some room to load it and get oil for free. Imagine how much energy it has entered the system and how much the system needs to be able to come to a balance. That's what we're living now. But he'll be in a balance position. We all believe that, from holidays and then, the reverse course of all this phenomenon will begin, since global demand will now be fulfilled, the Christmas market will be over and the economy will gradually get at a more smooth pace, unless we have a next very great turmoil. I shall close, Mr President, by saying this. The government has not only brought these measures. Count, Mr. Kegeroglu: Contribution of solidarity. It concerns a reduction in income, in other words an increase in income for all employees, for all private sector employees, for all. Secondly, for enterprises, the reduction in the refund of the repayable advance is for all enterprises, which will also pay less money to the state. The reduction in VAT on critical products. Reduction of income tax. The reduction of the EMCDDA and much more. All this, as ELSTAT proves, and as evidenced by the course of the Greek economy, has increased the average income of the Greeks. And yes, since the forecasts of the international houses for the great growth of the Greek economy and the great growth in 2021 are confirmed, if necessary - and the Prime Minister will decide - there will be the financial space to provide additional measures. For thankfully thanks to our collective effort and efforts of all Greeks in 2021 it is evolving in one of the best economic years for Greece and perhaps in the record of developing all the times for the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u14	And we thank the Minister. The honourable Member, as well as the Minister, has given the Bureau a lot of time because the issue is universal and it concerns both Mr Kegeroglou's questions and the answers. Because - I have said so many times - the topical questions are also of a pedagogical nature, apart from information, on critical issues which are more general and for which the Bureau gives more time. We are now moving on to the second question under number 8455/6-8-2021 of the circle of petitions and questions, of the SYRIZA Western Attica - Progressive Alliance Mr.Georgiou Tsipras to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Extremely slower involvement of the large number of fire-fighting air and earth-based instruments as well as the personnel of the Armed Forces in the repression of live fires". Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, this year's catastrophic fires recorded two huge "successes" of the government. It's two, it's not one. One concerns fires themselves. We had an increase of the burnt areas by 500%, five times above the average for the period 2008-2020. On the other hand - a specific issue that many people do not know about - the depreciation and decommissioning of ODA has now emerged. And for one thing on the other, we know that the Department of Defense is not the first one in charge. But it has a very clear complementary responsibility for each other. To supplement only for ODA the huge "success" that, while we were exclusive producers, ODA, F-16 parts for LOCKHEED MARTIN, the company was decided four months ago to stop being exclusive producers, we cannot bear the burden of production, which will be transferred to other countries. And this while you know this problem from the first day of July ‘19. I'm coming back to the fires, so. In the media - and most of them are not with the opposition - there is nowhere to be noted in the presence of the Armed Forces personnel. The Chief of HNDGS declares on 5-8-2021 that it will be made available - while all fires have already begun and plummeted - five hundred military personnel, sixty-three vehicles, four reptiles, and thirty-nine aircraft and helicopters for airfighting. Until then, the Chief of HNDGS himself said that only a hundred staff had been made available and four retired machines. What is the reason why the sixty-three vehicles and thirty-nine aircraft were not made available in time and have been late to be available - and that is not even accurate - after 5 August? Was it not necessary since we were in the middle of the anti-nuclear period to have made sure that these are available? Why was there up to a tenth of the personnel of the Armed Forces and Instruments, as shown by the statement of 5-8? You personally said 7-5 that we'd start with six Canander 415 and 215 and get to nine. I'm not going into the conversation about how much HR is to blame. But there is the question of what action you had taken as the Ministry of Defence on the issue of the EAW and, above all, what planning had been done and whether it had been done by March 2021, as you had to do, on the issue of the anti-missile period, so that instead of finally having eighteen Canader that had to be available, we had only six. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u16	And we thank Mr. Tsipras. The Minister for National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos has the floor for his own protagonist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague, in the question entitled 'Extremely late the participation of the air and the personnel of the Armed Forces in the repression of fires', the first comment I have to make is that it is extremely inaccurate, as well as that it is extremely insufficient time for me to give an overall answer about what has actually happened, how much information from the Armed Forces has been involved, at what time, if their participation or late and, in any case, what was the total participation of the Armed Forces in this project. I would like to say, however, that this assessment is really unjustified by the Armed Forces and by the thousands of personnel involved in the fight against the catastrophic fires that hit the country from the end of July to about the means and put August. The result is a given, the disaster is huge, of course, it could be bigger, but it's huge and you're certainly playing with emotion right now, because if you tell someone who's deceived that all the forces have moved in time, obviously you won't convince him, no one will convince him. From there on, but it's cool to give the evidence. Already on Wednesday, 25 August in the debate that took place in this House in this Chamber at the level of political leaders, the Prime Minister, I would say, was placed on the subject, saying that the Armed Forces immediately placed all the forces in personnel, instruments and materials, both in numbers and in the areas required by the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. So, in short, the involvement of the Armed Forces in the disposal of air fire-fighting instruments, personnel, surveillance instruments, and so on, whenever requested by the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, and made available to us. Whenever we were asked, what we were asked for. Already since the beginning of the anti-nuclear period, i.e. since 1 -5-2021, a mandate has been issued by the OHIM for forest protection patrols and fire-fighting throughout the territory. Every day, surveillance and air-fighting flights were carried out, and engineers, vehicles and materials were made available with the relevant technical and support staff, where and whenever required, as I said, with the needs of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] I will take time, Mr President, please give me more. I will not say it all, it is impossible, but at least I will quote some facts objectively. In addition, with effect from 2 August 2021, Monday, due to the high risk ratio expected for the following days, all personnel and resources set out by the projects concerned in support of forest fires were activated. I would remind you that in the past few days there have been fires in island areas in Rhodes and Kos, if I am not mistaken, and two of them have been very close to military units. That is why it was already ordered from Monday, August 2, 2021 - on August 5, the meeting was held on further assistance and not on assistance from that moment, but on the further assistance of the Armed Forces, on the Maximos Mansion under the Prime Minister, and then, of course, the relevant announcements from me and the Chief of HNDGS - had been issued, as well as an increase in the preparedness of the sections "DEUKALIA". Fifty people were ordered within each camp in the area of Attica and Boeotia - as there the fires had already begun - and the intensification of surveillance was ordered by the process of on-board patrols on a 24-hour basis for tracking and extinguishing any outbreaks near camps. As I said, the two fires that had broken out in Rhodes and Kos were near the camps within a radius of up to ten kilometers. On Tuesday 3 August, terrestrial parts of the Armed Forces with "Dykali Groups" and engineer machines were involved in the fire front in the Tatoi region. That's why the fire didn't expand into Dekelia airport on the air base. It burned out regionally around the fence some trees, as well as an old, non-functional storage building for the base, and that was fortunately the only damage as they stopped the fire there. These are as far as Dekeleia Airport in Tatoi, but this was a involvement - as you can see - very much increased. During the period from Tuesday 3 to Friday 13 August, the Armed Forces assisted the General Secretariat for Civil Protection by staff and means by means of a geographical compartment by numbers - which I will present - both in Evia, Attica, in the Peloponnese and in the rest of the territory, with a number of thousands of soldiers and officers, while, of course, all the air means available - and for this reason, I will also speak - as well - and also in the case of vehicles, even of means of assisting in the evacuation of the population from Evia that has been escalating the fires, were unprecedented in terms of the numbers and the means used. Aerial means: The maximum availability was thirty-three aircraft, in addition to the other flying means used in logistical surveillance and coverage missions - unmanned vehicles for surveillance, helicopters for surveillance, etc. - We're only talking about aerial fire-fighting equipment, i.e. Canander, old and new, and Sinook helicopters. These are the means available to the Armed Forces in terms of air-fighting. The rest is, like the Eriksons or the Russians, the rented Berieves of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. As far as Canada is concerned, there are three to maintain, two old 215 and a new 415. What was made available during the month of July and August was six and eight respectively, six old and eight new. The numbers - you know - are not worse than other periods. On the contrary, I could say that they are better than other periods. We don't have it all. Yeah, we never have it all. Is there anyone in EAB always in it for maintenance? I am not going to enter the debate right now on ODA. Of course it could be the subject of another question of parliamentary scrutiny. Nor will I refer to the F-16 case. There are arguments for and against it, but they are not here. In any case, however, the Canaders’ maintenance was at a satisfactory level and indeed the things that worked contributed to the maximum, although one can claim that even a hundred Canander could have available the Air Force to suppress, those days at a hundred and twenty, a hundred thirty fires that broke out or evolved on average is doubtful though they would be sufficient. Cynuk: There has also been a discussion about the Cynuks - and that is what I will close to leaving some for my dentistry and I will also submit the exact number. Look, during the operational design, three Sinooks are available in a firework, with the bins and others, in the current operational design. We have more. Some are available, some are not. But it is of interest and perhaps it could be - I urge you - the subject of a special question under parliamentary control to see what the real situation in Sinnook is. We had some available, less than the total number of Sinooks, but - you know - when we bought the extras we didn't buy repair facilities. Repairs after 2017 with more Sinouk remained the same as they were before 2017. Also, when we bought new Sinook, we did not buy in the dear habit of previous and later support contracts. The agreement was then signed for the support of the Sinouks in early or mid- 2020 - if I am not deceived - which allows the uninterrupted flow of spare parts and thus the maintenance. As the Sinouks are available on various missions, mainly aerospace facilities - you know how much the burden has been on military transport because of aerospace, in cooperation with the EKAV, patients from remote areas of the country, especially during the COVID period, where several cases were occurring every day - flight hours were consumed. It is a constant request from the Air Force Command, if possible, to remove this load - not to abandon it, if you like, social care - with aid from elsewhere, from the helicopters of the EAW, let us say, which will at some point be put on flight preparedness, but staff are still trained. It would be a big deal to reduce the burden on Sinooks a little, therefore, to keep available hours of flight available, which might in a crisis could prove extremely useful. In any case, however, the number provided for in the operational planning was foreseen. As far as the eighteen Pezetel are concerned, you know that these are not part of factory maintenance in the ODA. After all, everything or about everything was available and they did repressive work. I think that, after all of this, I have not talked at all about the disposal of land personnel in the burnt areas in the mountainous forests, in order to prevent some evil people from operating, because we have not only had fires caused by the extreme heat. We had proven fires caused by arson. Besides, arsonists were arrested. I can imagine that surveillance in mountainous forest areas and the islands has brought results and prevented them. But, in any case, I think it would be unfair - with this I am closing - to see that the involvement of the Armed Forces was extremely delayed. Oh, no. Before the meeting that defined their further involvement on 5 August, the Armed Forces had already been involved, they had already produced a project and not only in the level of firefighting, mainly and in the coming days and continued this, with the involvement of thousands of Armed Forces in a mobilisation, which I can say in its range, the size of the strains, was greater than ever. The result is a given, but I think that the perception, the crisis that the Armed Forces have been extremely lately involved is really unfair to all this huge amount of executives who have been mobilised and gave it all up, trying to help society and help in the work of suppression. The rest in dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u18	You said a lot about the prototype, but because it is Friday and we have no pressure - there is no legislative work on it - it will be given comfort on the part of the Bureau and the honourable Members to ask for comfort and the ministers to respond. There will be absolute justice in this. I told you that we are not pressing for something to be done in order to start legislative work or a timely question of generalisation. Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u19	You should have told me that before my first talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u20	You now have the opportunity to say what you did not say earlier in comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u21	Minister, first of all, as far as the evidence is concerned, I confined myself to the first-hand speech in statements from the AUTHITA. I didn't mention any of my clues. Now I'm going to report from our own sources. No one said the army was involved from August 5th. But his involvement until then was very small. It was extremely limited and results from the statements made by the Chief of HNDGS. After all, it is also a statement by Mr Chardalia that 'NEUKALIA' is activated on 4 August - the statement was made on 4 August - and the means available were very few. It is also true that efforts were extremely important in all the military capabilities of the Armed Forces and contributed significantly to any restriction that has been the case. No one's realizing it. What design was available at the Ministry of Defence, how much resources were available and when they were available, this is the crucial issue. There was a lot of effort to enjoy those days for how much inside we have. Let me remind you of Mr. Scortsu's astonishing that we have seventy aircraft and helicopters available, which very quickly proved to be a bubble. We ended up from seventy to fifty, then from forty to twenty, supposedly, which was available at all times and, unfortunately, that is not the case either. From our sources - I now come to our own sources, what I said before is statements by the Chief of HNDGS and Mr Chardalia - I have the following. Canadter 414 was never more than four available. The 215 were a little above, the PZL was about eleven and were scattered across Greece. That's all about aircraft. I come to the Shinuks, which unfortunately is worse. First of all, it is unfortunate that the attempt to load the business situation of the Sinooks on what previous governments have done and if they have still bought equipment since the 1970s, without care for its maintenance. She's unfortunate. We all agree that this should have changed. It began to change for our time, and that is not why the Sinook situation was. Our information is that it was four available and attempted at a maximum of one to two at any time. Here, Minister, there are two questions. Happy, I imagine, you're not on this issue. Although what you said now, I'm starting to doubt it. Are you sleeping alone? I am not asking about the service situation in terms of the needs of the Armed Forces, which are their main task. Sleeping quiet from the business situation? Second, are we ever going to find out the truth about how much they really were flying? Because, there continues to be an effort and an attempt to irritate how many were flying and how many were available. There's still this. We have not yet said the design and thus the knowledge of media preparedness for this year's anti-nuclear period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Tsipras. The Minister has the floor for his own denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I would really like you to ask a question about the Sinooks so that we can come see the numbers, see the availability, the repair facilities and make comparisons. Comparisons not with the 1970s, but with 2017 when the extra Sinooks were purchased. From fifteen to twenty-five we have gone, but nothing has been predicted to increase repair capacity nor even to sign a contract with support that is necessary as long as the systems are old, but simply for the uninterrupted flow of spare parts. When you buy extra systems, but do not provide for spare parts, they will be used, they will be exceeded when you have to use them in aerospace in a period of extreme health crisis or with the situation in Greece and the necessary daily spaces from remote island areas. At some point, you'll find that the flight hours they have are minimal before they go in again for maintenance. Because in order to get in to maintenance without spare parts - since there is no support then - how will it come out in time for it to be available again to the Armed Forces when they need it or where else it is required? This debate is interesting, but I still cannot limit the answer to two minutes of dentistry. I will confine myself to presenting for your own use the note issued by the Ministry of Defence with information provided by the OHIM on the total contribution of the Armed Forces for the period from 2 to 12 August. You'll see that the total airline flight flows exceed a thousand two hundred. It's the number that we could meet in some kind of war race, so many aircraft exits, all those flight hours. Almost that was the phenomenon we had to deal with, in terms of combatation. From there on, I will tell you that at the meeting on 5 August - which was then announced by me by a number of measures in the context of the general framework and by the Chief of HNDGS with regard to the specialist - it was decided to further engage the Armed Forces. However, the involvement of the Armed Forces is decided and ordered when we are asked to do so. In other words, when we are told by the General Secretariat for Civil Protection that we need 'them and them'. We had already activated the temptation of the surveillance camps, we had made available the first groups of the project "NOTELS", we had increased the degrees of readiness and participation, we had called in the camps in Attica and Viotia additional people to respond to the need, as it emerged. Therefore, as I told you, the involvement of the Armed Forces was extensive, it was made in line with the needs, as they were contacted, as the requests were made by the General Secretariat of Civil Protection. As far as air means are concerned, the availability in those days, I would say, was equal or greater than in other periods, despite the fact that the requirements were much higher. As I told you, they were involved, except for three Canander aircraft that entered for maintenance in ODA. The last April 2021, because periodic needs emerge. The factory maintenance is divided into several stages, in primary, secondary, tertiary and in total, where the entire aircraft is dismantled, because an overall inspection of all systems must be carried out. It's time for that for one of the old Canader's 215, April 2021. However, they were otherwise attributed. They are still assigned during the anti-missile period. Because you asked me how I'm sleeping, right now we have two more Sinooks suspended. In other words, two more were handed over. Of course, we are also considering possibilities to increase the repair capacity, but also to assign work, possibly outside the scope of the Army Air Force, which is responsible for the maintenance of the Sinooks, so that we can have even more available in good time schedules. And that's one of the thoughts. We shall also discuss them in the relevant committees where you are a member. Generally, we don't blame the Armed Forces. They have been very much involved in this difficult effort. From the result - given that there has been a huge catastrophe - it is certain that there are - to say so - complaints, anger, a sense of failure, especially by the affected. The truth is, there has been an over-emphasis, which has prevented the worst. In the field of surveillance where fires have not broken out, and in the field of surveillance where fires broke out, were checked, refreshed, etc. I don't think we should blame the thousands of executives involved. Of course we must rethink and redefinite a great deal in terms of the overall model. The Armed Forces are always willing to play their part and will be involved, to the extent that they will be asked, but from there and beyond, as I said, the effort was huge and thousands of people were involved and actually gave their best self to limit the great damage. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u24	And we thank the Minister. The next two topical questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Stelios Petsas. We begin with our first question under number 1037/10-9-2021 of the Second Board of Members of Parliament B3' South Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Theanos Fotou Progressive Alliance to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "This year you are closing municipal centres for creative employment for children (CIDAP) and you are sacking workers, and every year sixty-five thousand children are out of the DPRK." Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today's question concerns the municipal CDIs and CDIs - ASE, that is to say, creative employment centres, which is very important for children's protection and care for children between six and twelve years old. It's about out-of-school lawsuits, i.e. after school's over. It has been an institution since 2001 and since 2010 the vouchers managed by the EBRD, namely the local development and self-government company, which you are supervising, Minister. The Mitsotakis Government has been systematically leaving some sixty thousand outside the CSR for two years, because it does not give them the voucher they are entitled to. How did you manage this? In 2019, the government of Alexis Tsipras spent 75.100,000 euros on the budget and gave fifty-six thousand vouchers. Thirty-three to five thousand is the voucher for the CSR and CSR - ASE, Minister, so the people can hear it too. He gave it to all the kids who had a complete file. All of it! You, you frozen the money where SYRIZA left it to you in 2020. Good. But come on, the applications have doubled. And we doubled applications with a complete file. Okay. You left about sixty thousand kids out. And in 2021 you again did the same thing you did in 2020, that is, you froze the same money, the money we left you. You didn't put one euro above and sixty thousand kids left out. It was repeated, that is, the same work. We must, of course, say here to all of us that these costs, the free voucher, are those which lighten the family budget so that it does not end in two or three weeks as it is today, despite the glorious and great beliefs that family income has now risen. Because you know well, Minister, the poaching you've done. Household consumption rose in the second quarter of 2021 by 4.2%, i.e. we just got out of Lockdown and entered Easter, which is why you see that family income has risen. But what now? Suddenly now they are also at risk of closure. Because you, Minister, did not put what Mr Theodorikos put last year, that is to say the additional 15 million in the municipalities. Thus six primary CSR were closed, twenty-nine employees were made redundant, six other working hours are down, they are at half the working hours of thirty workers and already most CSR have not renewed the contracts of their employees which end in thirteen days, Minister. What does all this mean? And I ask you: are you finally planning to abolish the institution of the municipal CSR and to exclusively assign the protection of children to the centres of creative employment for individuals? Will you immediately give the financial assistance required by the municipalities or do you have any other orders from Mr Vorides this year? Will you now renew all workers' contracts? Thirteen days left. I call on you, Minister, to give the 60-70 million necessary to give all the vouches for children who have been left outside the CFP as a whole. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Fotio. The reason now for the Minister, Mr. Pecha, for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. As far as institutional issues and the debate are concerned, because the offer to the CFPs has increased so much, I shall return to secondary. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Fotou for the question, because it is really a very important issue of the creative employment of our children both in the CSR and in the CSR. It is unnecessary to analyse and I think we all agree that these structures are necessary for children and parents, especially for families with lower incomes. The sensitivity we specifically show to the CIDs is a fact, the function of which is at the heart of our concern. I say that this year under Joint Ministerial Decisions Nos 31252 and 31930 on CSR and CSR - ACF modernises the institutional framework, shields its institution and tackles several weaknesses until a prior institutional framework, taking into account the social need for a continuation of the institution. It is one step - I will come back as I said before in my dentistry - for the rest that they need. Now, as far as your questions are concerned, you raise the question of the existence of public and private CDIs and say that we are seeking to abolish the institution of municipal CDIs. Clear words. Municipal RDPs can only be upgraded, not abolished. In this context, I say: First of all, the programme of harmonising family and professional life for the CSR and CSR structure category - AEB finances mothers who meet the conditions for participation, who receive voucher and are free to choose the municipal or private structure they prefer, while structures collect the value of the placement with authorisation from the beneficiaries. Therefore, the structures of the CSFs are financed indirectly through the benefits that will choose their structure. The public good is undoubtedly important. It does not, however, rule out the private sector's contribution to developing and providing quality services. What we want is for us to be able to achieve an increasing proportion of the applications for children who want to go to a CSR, CSR - ACE, whether this is public or private. And that is what we have achieved this year, as two thousand more vouchers were given to children of 2,660,000 euros. I'll report to you, but two numbers. They received sixty-three thousand and fifty-one children for a CSR of EUR 83,857,830 and six thousand nine hundred two children for a CSR - ACE of EUR 34,510,000 on the basis of mobilisation with the lowest family income for the fiscal year 2020. The structural Funds have increased by 3% over last year as well as applications for participation. We therefore see that the interest in structures has been increased both on the parental side and on the part of the actors in this area. Secondly, the question of the establishment or abolition of public CDIs and CIPs - ACFs are the responsibility of the municipalities themselves within the constitutionally regulated economic and administrative autonomy of self-government. However, with regard to further strengthening of the CFP, I would mention that we are aware that all the beneficiaries who met the conditions for participating in the CIPs - AIAs have received voucher, but this has not been the case for the CIPs. I shall return, as I have said, to my denunciation on that. What I would also like to stress is that the state budget and the budget of the Ministry of Home Affairs have certain tolerances. We are, however, considering both existing sources of funding and new sources, in order to achieve our goal and to ensure greater funding for action. We believe, however, that this year's budget of action will be EUR 310,000,000 from EUR 279,000,000 last year, a very significant increase. We support self-government, we support the action of the JAPDs in order to meet the need for the teams they serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u28	And we thank the Minister. Mrs. Fotio has the floor for her denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u29	Minister, I am pleased that you can assure us that you will support the CIDs and, indeed, the Municipalities. Unfortunately, however, this does not appear at all to me, because you are dealing with the field of child protection and purely communication. And I'm telling you with modesty. For while we in 2015 to 2019 were increasing the programme budget every year to incorporate more children into pre-school education and because when we received the programme, almost the resources from the NRP were over, which is not happening now - now you are absorbing mainly from the NRP funds - we put the money every year in a memorandum from the budget, Minister. The second: Knowing the shortcomings of the state in these structures, we gave 15,000 from the Ministry of Interior then to the municipalities to establish new CIDs and nurseries, because we knew the shortage, to rent buildings and to set them up. Because, we do not believe that school should be the core of each neighborhood, a lighthouse by night, that is to say, open, which is why by decision of my own, as Deputy Minister, we said the primary CSR could operate in schools. Municipal RDPs were, in fact, multiplied at the time. What happened next? Not only did you not modernise the framework, but with unexplained originalities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs you have done the following amazing that all of Europe laughs at: by law you banned municipal CSRs from operating in schools and with CSRs in the same law, you have allowed them to operate as they did. This has brought about a huge inconvenience. I have already explained to you - and I imagine you are about to tell me this - that the problem was created at CSR municipal councils in 2020 and 2021. Why? Because we had raised the history of the CSR as a very important extra-school institution and because the parents desperately wanted to find a place to put their children - let us say - in the afternoon with a security and so they doubled applications and with a full file. That's what happened. What happened now? Why did the problem arise in the primary CID? Because it was strangely reduced the vouchers who went to the primary CSR. Why did that happen? That was why: having doubled applications that were lawful with a full file, and therefore had to take voucher, children who went to primary CSRs were excluded. They came lower on the list and they joined higher children who first went to CSRs and they chose more private CSRs. That's why the problem was created. If you have another interpretation to listen to. This is the complete reversal of the policies we have made as SYRIZA. And now, in the midst of a pandemic crisis, once again, the damocles of dismissal or part-time employment in two thousand two-two-working trainers in the CDIs. Listen here, these people have been working for years, they have huge experience, and they are now without renewal of their contracts, they end up in thirteen days and they will be fired. Tell me, will you renew the contracts, or will we now also have this problem, get people fired from primary CSR, so workers? I have already told you what happened in the twenty-nine primary CDIs that closed and the redundant workers and the thirty who entered part-time work with half-hours. Didn't I tell you? Last year you gave the 15 million for this job. I want to know, will you give it back? Clear words, Minister. Theodorikos gave it away. He doesn't want Voridis to give them? What's gonna happen? They're waiting. And finally make the move, for your own good, to give the money -60 to 70 million are required - by the state budget to cover the sixty thousand children who have stayed outside CSR with full files. A word was not said by the Prime Minister at the IGC about child protection, 1 euro did not give! Get him to give it now, so that this story that eventually takes the money out of the wallet, out of the pocket of the Greeks, who see their incomes and get smaller and pay out of their pocket stuff that the state had to pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u30	And we thank Mrs. Fotio. The Minister has the floor for your reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. I think this is not a question of confrontation between both the Government and the Civilian Opposition, but also in general - I believe - with all the political parties, because it has a very clear social and economic footprint, social for all the reasons Mrs Fotio has developed and I really honour her mood, and when she was a Deputy Minister to try to help increase positions at all levels, including day-care and day-care and day-care stations and CSRs. And, indeed, I emphasise that. From there on, however, the social footprint is also complemented by economics. In other words, when we have the possibility of daycare stations, children's stations and creativity centres, we give the second worker at home the opportunity to get out of the house, to look for work, to find work, to fill in family income, so increasing the household's available income, but, indirectly, this also leads to an increase in GDP, which we all want, also by improving all budgetary sizes. It does not mean, however, that when the number of posts offered by the JAP is doubled, the budget should be doubled. We cannot say that last year was 279 million and this year we will be spending 500 million. We have to see why the number of posts offered is so increasing. And, as I said before, we will protect the institution of the municipal CSR, we will find a solution to the issue of CSR and of the anxiety you have expressed, but in clear contexts. Not the already 31 million that the budget has increased this year to add another 70 million, but to find out what can be done. We're going to get a solution for this year. But next year I would like to take some time to say how this can be cured. I imagine you, too, know that when a child goes to a centre of creative private employment it is framed by an attempt to direct the second child of the family and the third, if any, because it has side benefits from possibly private care centres, either in terms of its schooling or in respect of foreign languages. And there is the phenomenon of a Greek taxpayer subsidising the market or the donation of a bike, to register a child in a CDI. Shouldn't we see these? Nor should we see the fact that it can indicate a creative employment centre for ten children private but actually have three? This year we have increased the digital card to control every day and those who, with the two CSUs I mentioned before, are tracked to do such violating behaviours will be thrown away. We have very serious incentives this year to stop this artificial increase in the number of children. But, especially for the second part, I believe that next year we will have found a solution. We have had intensive discussions with the EBRD Board and the Ministry of Labour for some time now, and I believe that we will find the balance between private and municipal CCTs. And to return to your original question, yes, we will find the solution sane this year, but next year we will also lead to a band - I believe - of the budget, using Community and national resources. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. We will now discuss the first question with number 7730/2-7-2021 of the SYRIZA MP's cycle of petitions and questions - the Progressive Alliance Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skourletis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "On the occasion of the assignment by the Administration of the Municipality of Nea Philadelphia - Nea Chalcedon of street lighting to individuals". Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, on 3 July this year, I tabled a question which you failed to answer on the subject of the electrophoresis of the Municipality of Nea Philadelphia - Halkidoni. You're gonna tell me, is this so important? Yeah, looks like it does. It seems that this is a very important case, because it is not the only one. Today, in a number of municipalities in Greece, it is attempting to have an indirect privatisation of road lighting through PPP programmes. And be careful, this may be a choice for you that you understand municipalities with a specific role and character that you want to shrink their responsibilities, their social character, that you want to turn them into anonymous companies that share jobs from here and from there. The point is that this choice is being made and questions arise in terms of opacity, because we have a series of municipalities in Greece, where we have the same scholar and the same contractor. In the case of the Municipality of Nea Philadelphia there is this phenomenon: we have a suggestion from the economic committee of the municipality that the award should be granted to a particular contractor, which costs three times more than the study carried out by the services of the municipality itself. There are services. Workers recorded the needs of the municipality in street lighting. They cost it on the basis of market prices. And there is suddenly a choice of the mayor - this, I repeat, is not an isolated phenomenon - which is three times greater than the assessment of this service, and it is even greater than the study carried out with the previous mayor. Why is that? First of all, because you have huge responsibilities as a government, in terms of opaqueness that you have adopted in relation to specific decisions in the Economic Committees, which have specific majorities and, finally, are converted into an anti-democratic mechanism against municipal councils, which are the bodies that have to decide. There has been no precedent for self-government in relation to what is now happening, not just with the specific issues, almost all of the issues, their deterioration. And that is because of the original provisions you have voted on as a government minister of Mr Theodorikos and which you, despite bringing in a new law, have only stood on the issue of the electoral system and left unarmed this undemocratic function undemocratic. What's the result? The citizens of New Philadelphia and dozens of other municipalities will pay the cost of this non-good management of public money. You are responsible, Minister. You have responsibility for the supervisory role provided by the Constitution for you, in which you are responsible for supervising the municipalities of the country. Of course, there is economic and administrative self-sufficiency. We have to respect her. But there is also a supervisory role. You as a government, while you had a ready institutional framework, with specific specifications, to implement the law-maker - it was a provision which was provided for in the KLITHENIS bill, which had been passed by the previous government - you left it inactive. So here we are, as mushrooms in the autumn, having problems of mismanagement, not of good management. You have another obligation, L.4412/2016 on public procurement, which invites you to operate on the basis of the principles of economics, efficiency, efficiency. So what do you intend to do in front of this case? Will you let this nice couple of scholars and contractors, of the very specific ones, operate at the expense of the citizens? Eventually, do you think that self-government simply turns into a heresy agency for the assignment of jobs or should it ultimately be based on its role, particularly on issues of street lighting, on perception, on the practice of rewarding? People pay municipal fees to get an equal service offer and not to earn some at their expense. I think this is a very serious matter. You need to intervene. Already the Competition Committee - something has come to light - is carrying out checks on a number of municipalities on 8 June. I would also like to present to you some of the many publications that have seen the light of publicity mentioned in this particular case. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skourletis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u34	And we thank Mr. Skourlet. Minister, Mr. Pecha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. I also thank Mr. Skourletis for the question. However, I can only comment on the fact that it has been referred back to our speeches on the question of the governance of the municipalities and regions. It was our duty to intervene and enable municipalities and regions to be governed, because by the law that you had passed, Mr Skourletis, it was obvious that the municipalities were unable to provide the services that their citizens wanted. So, first of all, in order to be able to discuss today, it was the municipalities actually able to provide such services that the citizens required and to carry out the projects for which they were selected by the citizens. And despite the interventions we made in the first period of the governance of Mr.Mitsotakis with the support of the Economic Committees, you did not see that there was the problem for you to join us in a new electoral law that would really give the final solution to the problem. And so by the electoral law passed a few months ago, this will be applied since the October 2023 elections for the next term of office of municipal and regional authorities. Now, as far as the issue of supervision of the local government bodies is concerned, you have also referred to KLITHENE, let us not forget that, in the government of SYRIZA, despite its vote, the operation of the autonomous supervisory services has never been implemented, but the model of the coordinator of decentralised administration has been maintained and the legality of the acts of the municipalities continues to be checked by the coordinator of the relevant decentralised administration, who - I amazedly - have been appointed by tender. So what change have you made? I say that in the context of multi-level governance, the new framework of supervision is under consideration, which is part of the new Single Code of Government for a modern framework of supervision that will make use of new capabilities and new technologies and I hope that in the next few years we will have the opportunity to debate enough about this. We now go to the specific issues that you raised for the Municipality of Nea Philadelphia - Nea Halkidona. First of all, this provision has not yet been completed and is at an early stage, according to the information given to us by the municipality. I submit to the minutes of the municipality's reply for your information. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Stylianos Petsas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, I would like to highlight two points on the control of the procedure in the award of supply contracts by the municipalities. Firstly, supplies, as well as the supply of lighting bodies, are complex administrative procedures, which are controlled in terms of their legality, both by the decentralised administration and by the Court of Auditors at the stage of awarding the tender by the Economic Commission. However, it is not only in the award decision, but it extends all the acts of the competition procedure. In addition, the Single Independent Public Contract Authority shall carry out sample checks on ongoing procurement procedures by contracting authorities and public and private entities. Secondly, provision is made for the possibility of bringing proceedings before the Judicial Review Authority by any interested party who has, or is likely to have, been, damaged by an act or omission of the contracting authority in breach of European Union or domestic law. Therefore, institutionalised control mechanisms exist, which will control the specific supply of the municipality before its completion and the conclusion of the public contract, but also enable any interested party to bring an action. So let us better let the competent bodies check and speak about the legality of the procedures followed by the municipality. With regard to the standards of competition by the local government agencies, I would like to clarify the following: Any intervention in the process by the Ministry of the Interior would be void, inappropriate and illegal. As Deputy Minister of Interior, I do not give orders to the municipalities and regions. You know very well that the Ministry of Interior has the responsibility of the regulatory framework that governs the local government and respects and fully respects the administrative and financial autonomy of local government. For the rest which you have also asked, for the purposes of identifying a scholar and a contractor, I will submit in the minutes the procedural documents of the decentralised administrations attached to the replies of the local authorities. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Stylianos Petsas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u36	And we thank the Minister. Mr. Skourletis has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u37	Minister, in the name of the cyberdynamics of the municipalities you cannot create conditions for undemocratic enforcement of views against the majority of municipal councils - and here we have such a case - nor, of course, can you create conditions that may lead to economic scandals. So this is the first major mistake you made as a government, because the question of governance must first of all be based on legitimate political, social and popular majorities within society itself. To reverse an example you have used, mayors who had 14% in the first municipality have an absolute majority in the committees that do not have it on municipal councils. The law of Theodorikos tried to prevent the programmatic cooperation of the resignations, canceling it, and said that "you can only cooperate if you merge under the mayor's parade". So there is no more totalitarian and anti-democratic choice than the one that has been made over your days in self-government. And that's unfortunately - what do we do? - either you change it or you'll be escorted everywhere. It is, of course, very close to your perception and to the way in which you are operating the famous "final state", which is characterized by absolute centralism, devalued by government officials and ministers themselves, and much more you have written self-government in the oldest of your footwear. And don't look at the fact that at the moment the people who come from your own space are doing you a favor. But this voice of the heretics today, which is political until when do you think it will continue? So there are very serious issues here. And note: The issue of energy savings is a major issue. You understand that, you understand it in the era of electricity accuracy, in the era of the climate crisis. It is a priority, it cannot be a speculation field for specific businesses. You cannot once again confirm your own rule, your view - not your own personal view, your government - that you want even the health issues, the climate crisis, energy savings, to see them through market and speculation rules, the uncontrolled market. So I'm telling you, a municipality to which a private company is assigned for seven years to maintain street lighting, why would it have the corresponding service? So there you go. You want to create the conditions of the payroll of these services, to retire, to leave, not to exist and only to become a job agency for each municipality. That's your model. This is the end, however, of self-government. So we are talking about political views and perceptions. So I understand from your answer that you are creating an umbrella of protection in such practices. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And as far as - and I am ending - the last issue, it is notable that the decentralised, the Secretary-General of Decentralised, was, until 2015, appointed and chosen by the central government. We did a transition process of open evaluation, the AACC took over and through the AACC procedures qualified for those who were the respective registered in the register and currently hold the position of decentralised. But you have seen that even on fires you have made some specific changes. You got the services under the Ministry of the Environment. So we are all aware that in many cases the presence of the decentralised works as a brake. The first steps were taken on our own days, where we took specific services to the Ministry of Interior regarding citizenship and services that were in direct connection with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we took them down and hung them under the Ministry. Some competences must be given to the region in question. But in this particular case, it was precisely the understanding of the problems of monitoring legality and not of the feasibility, as was often the case with the decentralised ones, that imposed the function of the statutory auditor. We voted for it, we identified specific criteria and characteristics, from whom to make up, and when you came as government, you put it on ice. So this is your big political responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u38	And we thank Mr. Skourlet. Hot request, anyone who wants to take the mask off, come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u39	That's right. You should have reminded me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u40	I didn't interrupt you so you wouldn't lose your affection. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Skourletis, I am pleased that you are putting the very framework of the core that will employ us in the next few weeks and months precisely for the responsibilities that must be in the state, the ministries, that is, the responsibilities that should be in the regions elected - so we are talking about the second degree of local government - and the municipalities - to the first degree of local government. This is the core of the debate that will concern us and I really want - and I would like - with soberness all the political forces to table serious proposals, which will not be micro-political, but which will be looking over the next few decades. It is a good opportunity from your experience and your experience - four and a half years you have ruled - and from the experiences of the other political forces to reach a common dimension, which, at least in the basic issues, will help the daily lives of the citizen and will solve serious problems which are facing either modern challenges, such as the climate crisis or old crises, which have to do with infrastructure issues, which, unfortunately, are still a prerequisite in many areas of the territory. Now, with regard to the rest of the issues you have said, on governance, I think we have exhausted all these issues in the debate over the past two years. It is clear not only from the mayors from or possibly supported by the New Democracy, but also from your mayors the cry of agony that existed in the first months of the rule of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. However, I also receive it today. Ask your representatives on the CEDEFOP Board, to see what their opinion is, that if we hadn't made any changes with the Economic Committee and with the new electoral law, they could not do anything. It's not bad to admit that something was wrong. Someone took the political initiative and corrected it. Let's take a step further than that. With regard to the rest, I have told you that I will not replace any of the principles which have been mentioned very much in my prototype, from EFSA to the Court of Auditors and the decentralised one who will be invited to do their job. Then we are here to discuss anything that concerns this commission. As far as the general point is concerned, I have tabled the replies I received from the municipalities and regions in the Minutes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u42	And we thank the Minister, Mr. Pecha. And now we continue with the third with number 1046/13-9-2021, a topical question for the second cycle of SYRIZA's MP - the Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The government will not turn its back on the retreat Pontian expatriates - to give an immediate solution to the question of their housing loans". Here, Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in October 2020 during the debate on the State Budget for the year 2021, the Minister of Finance noted: "In the unusually high uncertainty linked to the unknown development of the health crisis and the speed of exit from the measures taken to limit it, the need to strengthen the need to address additional challenges faced by Hellenism and our homeland is added." Unfortunately, it took only a few months, Minister, to prove in the most emphatic way that your Government may appear socially and nationally sensitive, but in practice it proves to be irreversible and dangerous. And I'll explain the reason right away. Mediation of the pandemic and under the 15-5-2020 Joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministers of Finance and State, FEK 2169/5-6-2020, on the process of electronic confirmation and deletion of debt guaranteed by the Greek State - guaranteed by the Greek State, hold this! - thousands of our fellow citizens received threatening letters, telephone bills from Greek credit institutions through the well-known tax collector companies, legal offices, in order to repay their loans, while many of them receive payment orders for all their debts and follow auction notices. Among the other red loans, there are forty thousand Pontius expatriates from the countries of the former Soviet Union, who received housing loans guaranteeing the Greek State 100% in the framework of a policy which starts in the early 1990s. I repeat, with the guarantee of the Greek State 100% in the context of their state housing rehabilitation programme in the years 1990-2004. And now they face the immediate risk of losing their main residence. These are people who settled in the mother country, either as immigrants or refugees, because of the collapse of the Soviet Union and have faced and continued to face many difficulties following an instigation of the country, the national centre, which said 'come on'. These are people who are most elderly and who were brutally affected by the Memorandum bleach of 2010-2018. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It was the Samara - Venizelos coup d'état that hit their struggle for survival, when in 2012 it even cut off these little 360 euros that they received as a pension. To these people, then, who are on the limit of tolerance, your Government comes and puts the knife in the neck. They're people who aren't six butchers. Then, if you want, we're all talking about every six of you guys. You forget, Minister, that the Greek State guaranteed 100% of these loans. I will submit to the minutes the relevant ministerial decision, which was published in the FEK, that is to say, your predecessor, who signed it and established it in the framework of Law 2790/2000. I read: "We give the Greek State's guarantee to the banks of the European Union for thirty-five thousand loans to be granted for the housing restoration of repatriated Greeks from countries of the former Soviet Union in establishment areas A, B, C and D...", which were envisaged by Law 2790/2000. Minister, Mr Sylakakis, this guarantee covers 100% of the above loans, which will not exceed EUR 60,000 for each household borrowed. With this guarantee, the Greek State undertakes to repay the claims arising from the outstanding instalments of the loans mentioned above. It is defined as a twenty-two-year period, i.e. until 2025. Keep a useful detail at the end of this ministerial decision of 17-6/2003 published in the FEK 772. It says that the present provisions cause expenditure to the detriment of the State budget, but it cannot be calculated. I put it to the Minutes to understand exactly what is going on in this procedure. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And we're coming to the question now. I therefore call on you, Minister, to respond specifically to the guaranteed debts that have been transferred to the public authorities and have become required by the AIA, if you are going to provide for a specific long-term instalment arrangement, while deleting basic capital and surcharges on the basis of the actual possibility of repayment of the debtors. The main question is politics - because it is all political, Mr. Psulakakis - is why you turn your back on these compatriots, the "Trantels who feel and repeat - look me in the eyes, Mr. Psulakakis - "In foreigners I am Greek and in Greece I am foreign". That's where Stalinist persecutions were chasing them as Greeks. We told them to come. What are we telling them? We're telling them, "Would we throw you out of your house?" I'll tell you later about the six knuckles and we'll get tired of loans from the banking system, etc. These appeared in the late 1980s as a "manna from heaven" to support demographically sensitive areas of Greek territory and twenty years later, the New Democracy Government leads them to impoverishment. Is that the country's thank you for their offer? So much inhumanity? So much analgesia? Will there immediately be a fair and sustainable solution to the problem? And I ask this because in May, in reply to a Member of the Co-Population, you said that 'it is going to happen'. This is imminent, Mr. Pylakakis, how long does it last? It's been five months. I, along with my SYRIZA colleagues on 29 July, tabled a written question. The 30 days limit that President Bourras can confirm, which is the limit for answering a written question, is it true? We're talking about July 29th. Today we have 17 September. Why don't you answer? Say something specific. People keep sending us the payment orders to our offices. I'm waiting for your answer. I want to believe that it will be documented and I am really coming with a composite and creative response to my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor with comfort to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. It is not right, however, to violate the parliamentary procedure when it is three times the time for the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u46	Minister, you weren't here. Listen to something, because I'm sorry, but what you're saying is offended by the Bureau. Since the beginning, we have said Friday, which has a few questions, both to my fellow Members and to the ministers, that we should be able to have a good time. Indeed, this began with the use of time by two Ministers. You understand that I must balance myself. We have said from the outset, because there is no legislative work, because we do not have the pressure, because there is little time, both to colleagues and to ministers. You may be right, but, you know, sometimes the Rules need to have a flexibility. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u47	Good. I am pleased with the flexibility of the Rules of Procedure. It is simply when it is used disproportionately by Opposition and government that there can always be problems. So let's move on to the point. These loans are guaranteed by the Greek State. What does guarantee mean to have a real picture? Does it mean that the State undertakes to pay for it to the recipients of the loans? Oh, no. It means that the public and people who couldn't get a loan because they never had a bank profile, it enables them to get the loan and they take responsibility for their repayment. These loans are old loans, extremely old loans. We have been talking about loans covering a period of more than two decades. These loans for many years and, in my view, banks were no longer normally served by the banks, since they were not normally served, they are beginning to ask for massive discounts. For years and over a previous government, this was not because there was no legislative initiative by the government at the time or by the previous governments, but simply because there was no bureaucratic procedure. We were in a void. These discounts are now, after all years. If there was a political will from the previous government to resolve the matter, it would have put its hand in the pocket and done something. What he did was just leave things the way they were, to break the problem to the next. The problem was indeed broken because these loans from most of them were not served and went down. We have made a decision, honourable Member of the Opposition, and I wonder how you do not know it - to facilitate these people with the greatest possible facility available to anyone having an obligation to the public, because there has now been an obligation to the public. In Article 293 of L.4738/2020 we have made it possible to adjust to a hundred twenty instalments of the certified debts for those loans that have become due until 7 October 2019, which means that we give them the possibility, even if the deposit of the guarantee is in 2023 or 2024, to enter the hundred twenty instalments and pay what is left of their debt within a decade. That is the basic regulation we are doing. It is a regulation that makes sense and is a regulation, and note, which was agreed with the institutions, is also in their own agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Triantafylliides has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u49	Minister, Mr Pylakakis, unfortunately he is confirmed by what you have said and said in your prototype - of course you have diligently avoided mentioning in the time-lag - what I am referring to in my initial position and I shall repeat that, on the risk and analgesia, with this initiative that you have taken, no previous government. The previous governments since 2000 have built up a housing restoration plan with Law 2790. In 2003 with the ministerial implementing provisions they implemented this policy, in which the whole of Parliament was in line. And you're coming over to do what, say what? In the grandma who makes helmets and goes to the bazaar to sell them to get a piece of money, you put the knife in her throat to tell her "Here and now you're going out of the house, why did I change politics?" What are you doing? You are annulling this decision of June 2020, you are similar to everyone else. And you're basically not assimilating, and I'll tell you why you're not assimilating. Beyond being annoyed, you're hypocrites. You are allegedly cutting off for the Pontius expatriates at the same time as asking them for blackmail to repay their debts for loans guaranteed to 100% of the Greek State. And I submitted the relevant ministerial decision published in the FEK in 2003. At the same time as your party, New Democracy, is Champion, the Battle Champion, you do lessons? Do you have the moral stature to teach the Pontian expatriates and other Greek citizens that they should respect their debts? I have the New Democracy balance sheets here and I will submit them to the Minutes. You owe Micah's as well! Three hundred and forty million, with signatures on the accounts of Mr. Nikos Papathanassis on behalf of the New Democracy - now he is a Minister - and Mr. Bratakou. I'll testify to the Minutes. In 2016 you owed 238 million euros. In 2017 you owed 262 million. It is the prudent management you ask others and every year you add 30-40 million to your debt to the banks! And you're teaching the Pontius expatriates, who got beaten by the memorials, and now the coronary, telling them: find the money, cut off your head, to pay what we as public guaranteeed 100%. The New Democracy in 2018 owed 288 million - I will submit this to the Minutes - in 2019 he owed 318 million, while in 2020 he owed 349 million. You owe the banks. You're gonna pay for it? [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafylides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] And you come as a representative of this government and this party of households, good administration and management, to do a lesson about payment and a hundred and twenty instalments? Are you going to New Democracy in the hundred and twenty instalments to pay and not to spend every year 30 and 40 million? Are you going to join the platform you voted on? And at the same time you only do it for your party? Oh, no. You do it for the poor, regardless of parties, whether they are right, left, centre and so on! So what did you do? Five hundred million have been cut by the shipowners. Here is the post: "These are the shipowners spoken by Piraeus Bank". And I say this because the banks are "driving" and they have a deficit and your practice is going to the House to recapitalisation, to pay the entire Greek people the broken ones, and the clique, the caste of oligarchs and shipowners. I read here: 'These are the shipowners who were told by Piraeus Bank, plundering half a billion dollars'. He has their faces, their families, and so forth. Here, Mr. Dogfish, how do you get a 80 percent haircut? Has the Greek government decided for them over time that they are 100% guaranteed their loans from the Greek State? It is a published by the paper 'DOCUMENTO', for the Minutes. "Others are targeting them and others are teasing them" by the "Recipients' Newspaper". I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So that I don't come to the individual, with the battering pioneer, your own Prime Minister who owes 1,5 million by himself, that is, he owes 350 million as President of the Party, he also owes 1.3 million as a natural person. Is that the moral? Is that the lesson you teach the Greek state? And I'm closing, Mr. President. Will the banks proceed to seize your party's mortgage assets once you are not normally paying the instalments of your arrangements, if there are any arrangements, as is apparent from the glossy annual increase in your loan liabilities? Obviously that was the reason why Mr Mitsotakis refused to come to the House and to answer the timely question put to him by our party President Alexis Tsipras. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are implementing a political plan to serve great interests against the public interest and the social majority. You are the party of deals and the great interests. You don't give a damn about our weak financial fellow citizens. Because at the same time that you are talking about debt regulation for weak borrowers who have supported demographically sensitive areas, particularly in northern Greece, you are plundering the loans of shipowners and major entrepreneurs. I have already submitted the relevant articles in the Minutes. Mr. Dogfish, closing, I invite you to provide a viable solution immediately. Your party in 2012 led them to impoverishment by stopping even the pensioning of the 360 euro government Samara - Venizelos for uninsured over-ages. How did you take your heart? Grandparents, grandparents! You cut them 360? So, in his shipowner, you're trimming 175 million to your Piladakis 175 million and the national budget will be lost to the 360 of Mr. Bourras' grandfather, his grandmother, my grandmother and my grandfather?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u50	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u51	Are you serious? You're sacked, analgesic. And I'm closing. We will not allow this to happen, Mr. Dollakis, we will not allow it to go to despair. We will prove to them that the Greek state has and consistently, in relation to our patriotic duty, all the patriotic duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u52	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u53	Unfortunately, I have noticed from the honourable Member a hypocrisy crescendo. The party that cut off the ESS is coming here and portraying us as sensitive? Who have you cut the exact ESS, Mr. Triantafylides?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u54	Why didn't you bring it back?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u55	Who have you cut the CSCE, Mr. Triantafylides?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u56	Why didn't you bring it back?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u57	Who did you cut the NSA? The elderly, you cut off the C.E.S.A.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u58	Did you bring it back?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u59	Don't interrupt, Mr. Triantafylides. You have completed your speech, now you must listen to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u60	To grandparents and grandparents!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u61	You...(he didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Triantafylides, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u63	With absolute hypocrisy, you bring it here. They're the ones who cut the C.E.S. And what did you do for the Pontians? How much money did you give during your period? Nothing, not even EUR 1 for these loans. If you wanted, Mr. Triantafylides, to change the Greek government's guarantee and turn it into something else, you would put your hand in the pocket and instead of overtaxing it to put it in the pillow, you would give the money there. You didn't. And you now come with a lot of hypocrisy, for a arrangement that gives these people an additional decade, which can come from 2023 to 2024 and 2022, that is to say, to go until 2032 and 2034, to take off this hypocrisy cream you've got, supposedly you care about, while you've done nothing at all. Now let's go to what's going to happen. These people can't. The Government has brought in a law specifically on non-performing loans, which is second-for-equity guarantees. You don't like the second chance law. Why? Because it's not a general arrangement for batterers. It's for those who need it. It leaves the batters outside and provides for two hundred forty actions, with a deletion of up to 75% of the basic debt and up to 95% of the surcharges. These are the real solutions that may exist on the basis of substance, so that you can give people the opportunity to adapt. However, loans guaranteed by the Greek State inevitably lead to a fall. There's nothing else the Greek public can do. It is much wider on the issue of its guarantees, much larger on the issues of not respecting the guarantees. Public money will pay for it in full, as long as it's guaranteed. This money comes out of the budget for those years. In other words, we are giving a financial space on the basis of these problems that we have received. I hope in the next phase, with the help of the best economic path, which I believe will come...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u64	When's he coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u65	...to be able to help more effectively the people who are for any reason in difficulty. Financials go better...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u66	You've assigned 5.9.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u67	...and I believe that in the next phase we will have better possibilities than these people and the rest of society.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u68	Approximately. Since May you have said that, Mr. Dog!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Dog. Ladies and gentlemen, the third, with number 1040/13-9-2021, is a topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "From Eye to Evia. The refusal to implement the proposals of the Goldenmer conclusion on the restructuring of forest firefighting is not subject to consultation. The second question, under number 1041/13-9-2021, is on top of a second question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "Requirement of the voluntary fire-fighting movement and misuse of the voluntary fire brigades of the Fire brigades of the House", is also not discussed after consultation. The fifth, under number 1052/13-9-2021, topical question by Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis on the subject: "The next actions of the Greek side on German allowances on the basis of the Greek Parliament's findings", is also not discussed after consultation. The fourth question under number 1051/13-9-2021 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros - Christos Ayloniti to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Control in notices of OTA recruitment which do not meet the principle of merit and equal opportunities", will also not be discussed after consultation. The first, with number 1032/6-9-2021, top-level question by MP B1' North Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Karougalos to the Foreign Minister on the subject: "Actions to rescue and safe transportation of Afghan citizens of Greek interest" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the MP, as he is on a mission from the Parliament abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-17-S1-commons.u70	With the agreement of the House at 11.11. the sitting on Monday, 20 September 2021, at 12.00, on the subject of this House's work, is closed: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, (b) discussion of the topical and urgent question from the Parliamentary Group of the Change to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, and (b) topical questions.
