ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Wednesday 24 March 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 574/17-32021 by Piraeus I, Mr Panagiotas (Nonis) Dunias, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "Initiatives of the Ministry of Culture and Sport for the timely fight against harassment in the field of sport". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 581/19-32021 of the Member of the Kilkis of the Change Movement Mr.Georgios Fragidis to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Entergently, the need for a comprehensive plan for the safe opening and recovery of tourism". 3. The question by number 584/19-3-2021 of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Liana Kanellis, Member of Parliament, with regard to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “The redundancies of 150 auxiliary workers in the social welfare centres in the middle of a pandemic”. 4. The question asked by MP B1' North Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "Request for residents of Lesvos to host refugees and immigrants". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Incomprehensible the conversion of the Greek Police into a social worker for the children of detainees". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle of Articles and of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Preparation of a Real Estate Distribution Convention - Recommendation of the Property Right of a Metropolitan Pole of Greek - St Kosmas and regulation of related issues". The Conference of Presidents decided, at its meeting on 18 March 2021, to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives should be involved, a first cycle involving one speaker from each parliamentary group and two twelve-member speaker circles with the following ratio: Five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from Mera25. Webex teleconferencing service is also proposed for two dozen-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-speaking speakers with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u2	The House unanimously agreed. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Prussakis, I would like to warmly thank you, Minister of Finance, both to you and to the Minister for Development and Investment, because, with the general number 805 and a special 127 amendment, Article 3 provides for duty-free, inappropriate and inappropriate aid paid under the Public Investment Aid Programme for enterprises that have been exceptionally suspended during the Christmas 2020 period, because of local measures to limit the spread of the coronary. I take this intervention to thank you very much, as I said, for this category is one of three important municipalities in my region, in West Attica, the Municipality of Elefsina, the Municipality of Aspropyrgos and the Municipality of Mandra - Idyllia. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Deputy Minister, Mr Besiropoulos, for having been in daily contact over the last two weeks, in order to resolve the latest details resolved by Article 3 of the amendment, under a general number of 805, so that the sums that will be received by the businesses in these areas and others throughout Greece, namely, the EUR 3 000, are also tax-free and incomprehensible. Thank you very much. I call on the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios Prussakis, to step in. On this occasion I would like to say - before Mr Practicalis spoke - that they are forty speakers, apart from the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives and the Ministers. I would like to ask you from the outset and because they are listening to us by means of a teleconferencing conference, that we be as precise as possible in time, so that all Members can express their views. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this draft law by the Ministry of Finance liberates an emblematic work of a whole decade from the legislative, technical and procedural holdings and delays of the past. Despite the denial of the unprecedented economic crisis, the current government remains faithful to its election commitments. It promotes visionary initiatives with a development sign that enhances the capacity and viability of the Greek economy while at the same time upgrading Greece's position on the international stage. The project at the former airport of Greek is the largest urban regeneration in Europe. It concerns both the entire social fabric that operates around the property of the metropolitan pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas, as well as the Greek economy in general, as well as the development of the largest and most impressive park in Europe, which will be open to the citizens. With more than two million square meters in size, it will be the core of the connection of the Saronic seafront with the mountainous volume of Hymittos. According to the information available, the investment will reach EUR 8 billion. Seventy-five thousand new jobs are expected to be created in the full operation of the project, contributing to 2.4% of the country's GDP in the goal of integration of development. It is estimated that the tax revenue for the Greek State during the project investment activity for twenty-five years - construction, operation - will exceed EUR 14 billion in income taxes, corporate taxes, insurance contributions, real estate taxes and VAT. The country's image will be upgraded to the global scene, taking the location it has lost as one of the most important tourist destinations in the world. Attributes, the integrated tourist complex is intended to host, among other things, a hotel of selective tourism, tourist infrastructure, business meetings spaces and not only, which can function in connection with the facilities of the most modern Mediterranean marina in the Argosaronikos. The investment program has become a attraction and has mobilised everyone. Tourism, focus, recreation, services and everything else that an economy moves will want to take part in this titanium project, while at the same time conducive to large investment in the adjacent regions of Alimos, Greek, Argyroupoli and Glyfada, while country actors point to the fact that the office spaces that have left a large stock of empty buildings in the past decade. The current government over the last two years has worked hard under adverse national and international conditions by promoting special provisions, as well as joint ministerial decisions, putting forward the machines of a huge investment project that the government has not lovingly embraced. He didn't have a vision, he didn't have a decision. A crown of this intensive effort is this bill, which is coherent and effective, as it ensures the proprietary maturity of the project. It is practical, as various procedural loose ends are regulated and the speed, flexibility and efficiency of the procedure are further strengthened. It is emblematic, as an act of public interest is concluded with regard to the property distribution agreement. In particular, Article 1 in the first part states that the distribution contract is to be ratified by the special distribution diagram signed in Athens on 9 March 2021 between the Greek State on the one hand and the GOI on the other hand as an indivisible circumstance of the distributed property. It is established in accordance with the provisions of Law 3986/2011 that the Greek State has the right to surface to the HNDGS for ninety-nine years, starting from the transfer of the property rights from the HSF to the “Greek Real Estate Management and Evaluation Company”, which will be referred to for practical reasons as “Hellenic S.A.”. The second part relates to other provisions of the Ministry of Finance for the metropolitan pole of Greek - St. Kosmas. The provisions of the second Article provide for the possibility of amending the terms of the contract to be ratified by means of a written agreement setting out the type of private document between the Greek State and the GOI or between their specific and/or universal successors. The third article regulates the procedure to contribute the property rights of the land and the full ownership of the real estate of the metropolitan pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas from TIADED to cover the increase in the capital of "ELLENIC S.A." by the amount of 911.20,000 euros. At the same time, the procedural issues of the performance of the contract for the transfer of rights by the TIDE to the "Hellenic S.A." are regulated. The provisions of the fourth article allow the buyer, the public limited company HELLINICON GLOBAL S.A. or its guarantor, before the transfer of the shares for the acquisition of 100% of the company HELLINICON GLOBAL S.A., to do within the metropolitan pole – Agios Cosmas at its own expense, initiative and responsibility the activities specified in that article – work without the charge of the Greek State. The planned actions include, inter alia, the building of a new housing relocation building for disabled persons. The third part contains provisions for the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Energy for the metropolitan pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas, seeking to resolve issues that have arisen in relation to the use of the pole, which are of public interest. The proposed arrangements referred to in Article 5 concern primarily procedural issues relating to the licensing of the necessary projects, such as the fence of the metropolitan city, the partial issue of licences, the implementation of demolitions, the process of approval of construction, the process of developing networks for the distribution of electricity and natural gas, and not only to matters relating to the operation of individual uses. In particular, Article 5 complements the existing institutional framework of laws 4062/2012 and 4663/20 on the use of the metropolitan pole of Greek – Agios Kosmas. Special urban planning, in many respects, regulations such as the uniform operation of specific commercial uses, the operation of tourist accommodation in high buildings, the issue of building permits and demolition permits, the construction of fences, the carrying out of checks by the building auditors, the use of existing sports facilities and others are introduced. Provision is made for construction and facilities located outside the building areas of the development and metropolitan park of green and recreational areas. In essence, the town planning provisions come to cover any existing institutional urban space, giving clarifications, explanations and timelines to define non-regulated provisions. The procedure for the implementation of electricity and gas distribution networks and infrastructure of the pole is also regulated and the contour installation scheme is laid down. It is noted that access to the beach will be uninterrupted and there will be fence only when the works are carried out for security reasons due to the project size, which will be removed after their completion. Finally, the fourth part includes Article 6 which defines its entry into force. Those involved in the titanium legislative process and not only are the Ministries of Economics, Development, Environment, Culture, Defence, Maritime and Infrastructure, almost all the bodies and central bodies of the public sector, and not just. Also involved are the Navy, beyond the Security Bodies, EYDAP, the Land register, the covetous with the work of municipalities and the Church, with four historical sacred temples in the area of the Greek. A special report must be made to the prompt Ministry of Finance, with the diligent Minister and the partner State Secretary. Same for the Ministry of Development, where Minister Adonis Georgiadis had taken the huge part of the entire investment. Of course, high symbolism and constant interest, and indeed with the presence of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis on 3 July 2020 in Greek at the beginning of demolitions and other preparatory construction work has historical value showing the Government's high interest in this investment. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the development work in Greek will radically change the image of Attica. The Greek will be the attraction of business, investment and social activity. There is a serious version of developments, a parallel loss of major investment planning. It is the scenario to lose the historic and commercial center of the capital the glamorous and the importance it should have. Unfortunately, Athens, as a capital, as a global destination in terms of its centre, has been hit in the last forty years by the cloud, sometimes by the traffic, sometimes by the development of superfood and competitive shopping centers in central Attica. The main reason, however, was that he was abusive in exercise, such as large numbers of concentrations, marches, cruisers, which had, at some times, evolved into a peculiar siege of the city. The centre of the capital had been deprived of its glow by the action of organized groups that plunge the neighborhoods of Athens in contrast to all the glamorous capitals of Europe. The current government with a tool for legislative work and in cooperation with the judiciary and the Security Bodies, and especially the Hellenic Police, has been seeking to replace the gap of an entire government period, a black period for the history of the country, where the center of Athens had become an outbreak of violence, immunity, illegality and criminal activity, while the educational institutions from spaces of freedom, knowledge and thought had become safest of violence and crime, forming warriors. However, the city gradually returns where it belongs, to its citizens, not only through the definitive and holistic treatment of criminal acts, but also through development projects. The Municipality of Athens is making extremely friendly efforts in order to upgrade the image of Athens. In fact, I met the mayor on this issue, which I am now stressing. Admittedly, the face of the capital is changing. However, Minister, the dynamics, the volume, the modern momentum of the Greek investment might lead to a final collapse of the historic and commercial centre of the capital if we do not anticipate measures if we do not become political. The center of Athens is not a district of the city, but is the soul of the Greek state. It is our administrative and historical core as a state, has a high symbolism and everything that happens there is beamed all over Greece whether it is growth or decline. It is therefore necessary to set as a next target a balanced, equitable and fair development of the capital centre in harmony with the Greek. When the opening takes place, our capital must shine as a whole, as it shined in 2004 with the Olympic Games. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u4	We are also grateful to Mr Prussakis and to him for the consistency in time. Until the Step is prepared, you will allow me, as President of the Committee of the Regions, to say how the days ending the second deadline are now coming. Let me remind you - because we are heard by many colleagues and by society, because there are too many who are obliged to submit statements of assets, namely, where you were, for the financial year 2020, i.e. use 2019 - that there are still eight - nine days left. Because I'm watching evolution every day, I see there's a delay. I would like to say that two deadlines have been given. The first deadline expired on 31 November. In view of the pandemic, however, a three-month extension was then granted until 28 February and a further extension was granted until 31 March. No further extension will be granted for the normal submission, i.e. the 2020 declarations and for the retrospective control of the years 2016-2017-2018. I am therefore reminding myself of this fact, and I would ask all those responsible who are listening to us - and not only Members and members of the government, but all those who are governed by the law are also judiciary and those who are managing issues in the wider public sector - for all cases the date expires on 31 March. I stress this, so that there are no further pressures and misunderstandings. The SYRIZA rapporteur - a Progressive Alliance, Mrs Perka has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is an opportunity for investment. Investments that are indeed developmental and therefore add to GDP, to the economy and society, and not to the others, these "hards" that ultimately benefit investors, not complying with either environmental legislation, urban planning, tax and so on, such as the one that was voted on the day before, and I refer to the "ELLINIKI FRYSOS" Convention. After we all agree that we want the first, let's go see why they're not chosen or why they don't go any further. Investment in Greek is a very good example to draw some conclusions. In a country, therefore, that has no tools, such as Land registers, forest maps, demarcated saints, archaeological sites, streams, etc., but has a large plot of "filet", you have two options: either slowly to get the necessary tools and then to design their use, or to move on foot designs, falling in S.A., to bring Athebigios, to the Catarians, and in the end to let the plot be abandoned and occupied, not even to secure it with a proper topography. Nothing! From 2001 to 2011 nothing, zero! In 2011, then, there was a competition. In 2014, in three and a half years, a contract was made, not to mention, of course, that the state had already planned, so that 2001 would be any design. In 2005, the SYRIZA government selected another route. Firstly, we have renegotiated the original contract. We have achieved changes in favour of social interests and put a positive sign in the final shape of the project. For example, we have reduced the building from three million six hundred thousand square meters to two million seven hundred thousand square meters. Inside a fixed track, bicycle roads, pedestrian roads were predicted. We won 1.5 billion more investments in infrastructure, because the original contract did not provide for any social investment and there was no minimum investment obligation for projects in the public interest. We have changed the payroll schedule, we have ensured that the park’s construction takes precedence, that the park’s construction be an investment priority, that we maintain existing bodies such as AMEA clubs, St. Kosmas Sports Center, other facilities in the park, Police, Firefighting and much more. I don't have time to analyze them. Secondly, we have resolved outstanding issues, such as forest land and archaeological sites. All I can say or rather repeat it for once is that when you swear on investment and have not secured the prerequisites for their safe and fair development, it is certain that they will stick somewhere. You see, we are a European country. I note, however, and I do not forget her attitude at the time, when she made a couple of months of CAS' decision, which said "SYRIZA is sticking to the Greek" Thirdly, we then went on filling up the abstract heresy, eleven abstract sects which we could not change and we did all of this, and I will reach out to what we left behind. To terminate the two contracts, initially and amending, approval of the integrated development plan by a presidential decree, which had previously been drawn up and approved by the S.E., i.e. the basis for the urban development of the property. The entry into force of a legislative act setting up the management body of the metropolitan pole publics. We have been under intense pressure to become the body of anonymous companies. We didn't give up. The entity retained its self-government character, is of a public and non-profit nature. And of course, the majority of the board of directors has it. Fourth, adoption of decisions of the S.H.E. Fifth, the release of the property from possession of third parties. Sixty-nine private and public bodies were located in there and should have left 2012. So we took them off. I wanted here, by the way, Minister, to note that there is also a request from the Workers' Association at the "OLYMPIAKI" for the establishment of a museum which also relates to our modern history. I think you should see it and move on. Sixth, the adoption by the Greek general government of a legislative framework for the granting of casino licences and, since 22-2-2019 in the air, the international casino competition with particular difficulty, original and unprecedented, because the investor who will come for the casino had to make a commercial agreement with the next owner, who will be when the shares change. It's a very complicated thing, but it looks like we did it well. Seventh, the park's KHS was issued, and the other two KHS had been processed as well as the services, but also the central council, were ready, there was a proposal. Finally, the preparatory action to produce the relevant distribution operation, the one we are discussing today, has begun. He said the Minister found a white page. That's right, because if the CSIs haven't come out, you can't proceed to a distribution operation. But we had started a little bit of a piece of work to solve the issues of the Register and all the relevant KLA to six thousand acres. And, of course, there is one last overdue cult, to which I am not going to make much mention, this must also be a global originality for judicial maturation, which means that as long as there are recourses to administrative acts, of course, the shares cannot change their hands. I'm going over it because the Minister answered us to the committees. All the things I mentioned were done in four and a half years with institutions, with difficulties. I would remind you that in all the country's assessments under the agreement with the institutions, the government's prerequisites for the Greek were milestones, Milestones. Of course, the progress of the project has helped the country's successful exit from the memoranda. So before, ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about the success of your government in Greek, let us consider ten years, three and a half years and over the last four and a half years. What the government was waiting for was for the casino contest to be completed, for the two CIAs to be issued - I told you that all this is working - and for this to be what is going on today. Twenty months for them. So what did he do? Why did the Minister tell us about twenty-four actions. Twenty amendments, some demolitions of two, three arbitrary ones from the nine hundred eighty-one, the casino contest ended, I guess we had done it well. That's what's been done in twenty months. Mr. Mitsotakis, as chief of officer's counterpopulation, had said that more than a week would end. In twenty months, then, what I told you in four and a half years ago, in ten nothing and three and a half of a contract, was done. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, we will not make you the opposition you have made to us. Proceed the investment, but proceed well in accordance with the amending contract, in accordance with the Presidential Decree for the benefit of the public interest. We, while respecting our own work, but also the country's need for a development process and for it to get away from the rug, have gone ahead with a more European and development perspective, we will vote in favour of the bill you brought us at first, because we are in favour of investment, because we have worked very hard for it. From there on, however, in the articles we have a different opinion and I continue. We have very serious objections and objections to the way you handled a number of issues, which I shall analyse in detail as long as I can and I would ask you at the last minute to correct what can be corrected. Apart from the first article, the other articles had to be made public, they have serious urban issues, many amendments to Law 4062. Do not underestimate consultation because there are concerns, misunderstandings arise. I always say that the political leadership must trust and consult the services that have the institutional memory and know how to protect you at the bottom - and of course public consultation. There's something else. It is not possible for the Greek in every bill to have an amendment, to bring a law with exhaustive consultation to come and help us and all citizens and clubs and move forward. This is not the case with amendments. You know, not only do you risk the public interest, but you also risk the safety of the fairness of the project, of the investment itself. Anyway, I don't have much time and I start with Article 1. So all these amendments, which you bring were not regulatory, which we would have no problem with, produce results, which we see today, and for some reasons, why are they here?' Three amendments relating to public utilities have been tabled. It was one thing, but it was so wrong that the mayors got up and had too many reactions. They brought in a second, third, anyway, three did it. What did they do? To circumvent Law 4062, which said that the municipalities could use the CSH as a title to translate the public and thus own them. Publics are in common use without an express resignation of the owners of the property. That's what the law said. The amendment comes, however, and says something else, it says that the public will be attributed to the municipalities after distribution after this contract. So why? Because the public had to count on the total area so that 30% would come out of the six thousand acres and not from the four thousand five hundred acres if they removed commonly and mutually beneficially. That is why you have not given us a satisfactory answer. I know there's a big talk. You also told us that you asked for the opinion of the TEI, no such procedure is foreseen anywhere. Apparently, there was a matter. We insist on that. We cannot accept that. Also, SAM tells us that it exempts the cavalry and the beach. Firstly, SAM could not change it, you know it very well. Secondly, SGM says that the distribution will take into account the diagram by signature of the three, the SGM and the SGM. It should be taken into account, in other words, the Ministry of Planning. Here we have a differentiation. Because we continue to work and measure we have found a differentiation in the total number of public, public and public utilities between the building site, the distribution contract and the area. If you can answer it to us, it's about 13% of the area, it's not a bit. Of course, there are eleven roads, four streams and a parcel which do not have square meters. See if what's missing is the difference. I'm on it. Another amendment comes to the Banking Code this time, which tells us what? It tells us that the surfacer is entitled - it was a general provision, we understood that it refers to the Greek, because it also has the right to surface and ownership - to divide the right to surface without the consent of the gentleman. It's still going on. Let us combine this with the prediction that the surfinger has the right to charge the right of the surface with a mortgage, record of impurity, recommendation of real and personal works, it seems that he does not ensure that the Greek State will get the property free of charge after ninety years. That is to say, the Greek State is disconnected from its property, it does not monitor it, at the same time it is able to gain weight and the third provision that the transfer of the right to the land also entails fragmentation of the area. We do not put urban conditions - yes - but it is the first time that the right to land is mentioned to lead to land fragmentation. It alters the very nature of the right to surface. Here we will have many landlords, that is, the Greek State will have to deal with too many thirds, with burdens. All of this I repeat that they risk the legal certainty of the investment, since the investor is in possession of ownership over substance at a particular section without any price and this has not been valued in the competitive process. In Article 4, you will again give the possibility of carrying out work and so on. You told us it was privately spent. That's all we need! It is an obligation - we must stress this - and the building of a new disability relocation building and the restoration of the 'HANGAR' of the Air Force and the implementation of a park. The park is an investment priority. All this has been secured by the amending contract. Don't say we're giving him that. What concerns us is this. All that's missing is the transfer of shares. That's missing, the stock changes, the investor enters and does his job. Why the violence? Let's go to Article 5, which also has a lot of problems. Here, Minister, this has been the case. The distribution is followed in the Annex by a distribution diagram which is not a urban diagram. It's a diagram for distribution. However, it has some urban elements that raise too many concerns and have risen and many reactions. I think you should keep them in mind. Let's just say it's reasonable that one of the pedestrians doesn't appear in the park, but the other one shows up, the big pedestrian street in St. Kosmas. The main pedestrian runway falls on a strange ending. It has urban data, not everything, as foreseen in the presidential term. And of course someone is wondering and says, what are we changing, the presidential? Can't change the presidential with a distribution diagram. I would therefore like you to make it clear in your speech. In other words, if such claims are never raised, at least in practice we have the statement of the relevant Minister, which says that this diagram only concerns distribution. It doesn't change the presidential decree on CIAs. This is serious, because it has really caused too many concerns. We shall continue with another amendment. What I'm telling you from amendments coming. It was adopted on 3 December and allows the 'CONDO HOTELS' in the non-project development areas. This introduces a broadly new urban arrangement for the Greek, because at the level of urban planning these hotels are allowed within a construction plan. This is where it goes to development areas outside of plan. The most serious thing, however, is that where we have uses of pure residence such as the coastal front, up to thirty beds are allowed. So now it is enough to allow the 'CONDO HOTELS' and even 30% minimum. This also violates Community environmental assessment legislation. It's another thing the general building permit. It is not a strategic assessment of the whole. I'm going to the major theme of the fence of the property. We were promised by Mr Tagaras that a regulation would come. Let's get this straight. You can't make a city in the city. We cannot support the gate community. Of course, for security reasons, where there is a project front, it must be fenced. This must have a specific period of time, not when the work is done in the whole, because the whole thing will end in twenty-five years at best. It must be part, with a timeframe specific, with construction fence specifications. We're waiting here because you heard the mayors at the board hearing. One cannot accept that we may have an enclosed town. And, of course, these concerns arise, Minister, because we know the original plans. That's the way they were the original designs before we made any modifications. Locked park, closed city, no access to the beach. Beach and park in any case, wherever the fronts are, must be open - the Presidential Decree says so - to the citizens. You can't close them. I'll say a few more things in my dentistry. What I would like to stress is that we have agreed that it is a difficult, prototype, subtle project - investment. He needs special arrangements. But he wants a lot of attention, and he wants an ant job. These do not all go through with provisions. They do not go any further with amendments. In any case, you have some other amendments. Other colleagues will mention them. All I have to comment on is that you don't always have a plan and you modify your own laws, recently. In other words, we are sick of seeing amendments to a law passed a few months ago. In any case, we are monitoring the project, as you understood. We'll always watch it. However, we cannot approve or vote in favour of some of the provisions you have, as you can see, regardless of whether or not we want the investment to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Perka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u8	No, no. Please warmly. It's the time of the rapporteurs. There is no point in this. Parliamentary representatives can speak, but not at this stage. I think that's what I think, because I have a many years of experience. Any parliamentary representative should not intervene when the rapporteurs develop their positions. The time will come and you'll take the floor. I'll give the floor to the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I would like to make a proposal, which I have repeated many times, both within this Chamber and outside, relating to health issues. Mr Ministers, after what happened at the "Metaxas" Hospital, for which I have also personal experience, I repeat my proposal for compulsory vaccination for all those involved in the battle against the coronary. To suffice in the Prime Minister's statements on the necessary persuasiveness, it proved to be quite inadequate and the cost has been converted into a cost of life for our people. The right of everyone to refuse vaccination is a given, but weighted and weighed with the right of all others who surround it and the public health benefit - constitutional goods and these - weigh less. Anyone who does not want to be vaccinated and is at the forefront of the battle against the coronary must change workplaces or move to another area of our health system, or if not all of them walk, do not go any further, apply Disciplinary Law other than the provision of dismissal. The second issue concerning health, which I would like to raise, which has also been raised since October, is about the public's important cooperation with the private health sector. You did it in Thessaloniki by ordering two private clinics that were never used. The second wave didn't teach you what's necessary, as it turns out. You have not yet made progress in public cooperation with the private sector, which has had to hire the features of an agreement, so that there are no problems, at least the extent to which you have deafened here today. And you are now coming with the orders, which so far have appeared as last hour's solutions. I refuse to accept that on these two issues there is the surprise that exists throughout the world. There will be nothing to tell you in this regard. I agree with the view that you do not dare on the issues that I have already mentioned, the mandatory vaccination, and you do not think strategically about the needs of the people, the citizens of that country and the possibilities that the public health system has in the first place, but also about the private sector. Before I begin to speak, ladies and gentlemen, on the issues of today's draft law, I have to repeat something I mentioned to the Standing Commission, at its last meeting, namely issues relating to the country's exit on the markets, the long-term horizon that we have come out and the positive response that the markets had towards our exit. I said to the committee, and I repeat, without there being the slightest amount of overdoing in this respect, that after the shocking experiences of the economic crisis as we experienced them in 2009-2010 for the next ten to twelve years, what has been most important to our economy is the confidence of markets in Greece. Investors trust Greece and that is a reality. However, Greece must also meet its challenges to justify the confidence of the markets. I have a truly shocking experience as State Secretary for Foreign Affairs in 2004, Mr Minister, to travel in an election period, in fact, for the obligations the Ministry had in Stockholm, Lebanon and to receive admiration for Greece - admiration - for many reasons. I'm not going back to 2004. The continuity is known and is known to all and to all. So, in front of us now there is a challenge, the challenge of verifying market confidence in the Greek economy, for example, not markets, for the sake of the Greeks and Greeks, for the sake of our country. We have sent out the last few weeks two positive messages. One last week or last week in connection with the ratification of the Greek State's agreement on gold, for Halkidiki, a story that tortured and evoked a negative message for Greece. We, as a party, voted 'yes' in the first place. The second with the signature at the beginning of March and the ratification today by the House of the Agreement between the Greek State and TIADE, which concerns the Greek. They are both investments that have an international image and their progress depends on the assessment made by markets and international rating agencies for the Greek economy. As a positive point, I would stress them. And I do this regardless of who rules our homeland today. Ladies and gentlemen, the vast majority of the Greek people know very well what the difficulties of the Greek state are, what difficulties it adds to our economy, our country and people, our bureaucracy and our bureaucratic consciousness. My colleague, Mrs. Perkas, mentioned the amendments that have been made to your law already related to Greek. But if we were to look back at SYRIZA rule, we'd see the same thing. And if we were to go back to the Samara - Venizelos, George Papandreou, Papademos, we would still see the same thing, to stay in the current years: slap in the legislative process, lack of strategic planning with regard to legislative initiatives, which force the ministers to bring legislative initiatives to Parliament every so little. One more thing. This state cannot operate without specific provisions. It could never work. No one made progress in this. Because the administration always requires ad hoc regulation on very clear terms to say 'yes' to an action for which it is requested. We've had the best of a century for us to be here today. No, Mr. Treasury, to start the works tomorrow. I have developed in the Standing Committee, I think, with sufficient conditions, how much we will go back to start projects, because precursor work is not a start. Initiation of the project - in this case, speaking - is the beginning of the configuration of the site and of the building, building where the relevant permits exist. Earlier than this time of year, the work will not begin. Let us be clear. I have said so to the Standing Committee, let me not repeat it. Ladies and gentlemen, why am I saying '1/5 of the century'? Because on 28 March 2001 the last aircraft was made from the Greek airport and since then Eleftherios Venizelos has been operating, thankfully. What has happened these years until we start becoming specific? There has been in the government of Simitis the proposal of the Athens Organization, on the footsteps of which the contracts for the utilization of the Greek, have been initiated, and there have been counter-proposals. I referred to the committee. I consider them to be characteristic, which is why I will repeat them: Our proposal as a party of PASOK, with the intervention of our study centre, the EDF at the time, we called the 'all park', and the six thousand acres parks. One laughs, considering what was going to happen in this park and comparing them with what was going on in the Mars Field. Wrong thought. SYRIZA's proposal for local municipality to take over the project. There is no criticism of that proposal. That mayor who would have taken care of even one playground couldn't organize and we had a dead kid. Stefanos Manos' proposal that there should not be any special arrangements for the region, but its scope should be turned into an environmental equivalent for the whole of Attica. None of this, fortunately, has dominated it as an opinion and as a final plan for what must be done. Manu's proposal was very interesting. In any case, the model that is before us today has been followed and we have reached a point in waiting for work to begin next year. When will it end, I cannot know, but with the judicial commitments that exist in Greece and for which this government has not done anything - I said, Minister, how unsuccessful your legislative initiative Georgia - Karamanlis is to speed up the signing of public contracts - I wish things would go as well. Because I am very well aware of the parliamentary procedures with regard to legislative work, your omission, which is now inappropriate - I see it - to take advantage of the second reading to bring amendments, so that the Scientific Office of the Parliament can also receive them to tell us our opinion, is parliamentaryly unacceptable. Because we are sitting here now and looking at amendments that have been tabled at the last minute, without having evaluated them and the Scientific Agency to help us - not to obey it, but to help us - and you bring them to plenary. I don't know what you're thinking, but because I don't know exactly and because you do it all the time, I end up doing it deliberately. It is not good, however, because the Standing Committee has shown you that it has actually worked in the requirements of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House in the drafting of the draft law. I didn't get any fun highlighting Mrs. Perka's contribution, which better knows the draft law from all of us here. He knows the subject. The commission worked. We were all creative, whether we saw it positive or did not see this work. But you are responding in a way that is inappropriate to a committee and to a number of political parties that are well treated. I therefore invoke everything I have said in committee, and I do not have time to develop it here. We are "yes" at the outset, because the principle of the draft law is Article 1, which includes the contract between the Greek State and the GOI and regulates the issues of ownership and issues of the right of surface. I have made a historical retreat to the right to surface, and I was completely covered by the Office of Parliament - take a look - where it makes a genuinely penetrating analysis of the right to surface for those who are interested in the completeness of the legal considerations. We are also saying 'yes' to Articles 2 and 3 and Article 4, because they are organizing certain procedures, in our view, in a proper manner. It is right, in other words, that there should be no definition of an exclusive deadline by the House, which is ignored by the administration and by the judge, but that the Law on the Central Environmental Licensing Board stipulates that if within 10 days it has not adopted its decision, it is in force. That is to say, granting permission. This is very important. It is not important, however, that the deadlines for this level should not come in with the need for the Council to deal with this particular issue. That's what stays in the air. We think that 30% of buildings will be available for tourist accommodation. It is also positive that a small part of the project involving specific actions, including a park, should start work without the transfer of shares having been completed. So we are in a positive sense for these articles too. Ladies and gentlemen, the Attica rivier is right now and as is the most beautiful and greatest in Europe. If the work is completed, when the work between the Old and Nea Faliro will be completed, and when the work will be completed with the good and the investment in the Greek and the work in the Greek, the Greek riviera will really be unique. I don't have the comparative data of the rest of the planet, but I could also take the thought that it will be one of the most beautiful and important ones. Over the years the very problematic - indeed very problematic - situation on this coastal front, Athens, Attica looking backwards and not towards the sea. We have changed it and changed it and it will change with the completion of these two projects. Therefore, we cannot, as a political party and as a political individual, say 'no' to such a legislative initiative. And allow me to say to the parties who say 'no' that I do not understand what their arguments are. I respect the positions and efforts of colleagues, but the final conclusion is not understandable. Without meditating, without complaining, but being serious as politicians and as a party, we make two comments, one concerning the contract and one concerning Article 5. As far as the contract is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we have put almost all the parties on their minds in relation to the percentages of acquaintance transferred to the company, to the investor, to the 'LAMDA DEVELOPMENT', which transfers the right to surface - we have said so - and we have considered the public spaces. We depended, Mr Stakoura, on your answer. I must admit that my technical failure may not help me, but I do not understand what you have answered. I read you carefully, I follow you carefully, and you know it. I have the following to say to you: Firstly, the contract in its first place describes common spaces. Secondly, you say that they have not even been formed when they are made, and then they will also be granted to the institutions. They're your phrases. At the same time, in your speech you say they are included in distribution. How am I supposed to get out now? I read from your speech at the last meeting: "In order of Article 2(2) of SYRIZA, the Aegean and the beach are explicitly excluded from this area, while it is not the same as public and public spaces." On this basis, it is presumed that the report, referred to in the above provision, includes public and public areas, which the legislature chose then in 2016, not to exclude, as opposed to the sanctuary and the beach. I didn't understand. If you are well aware of this, I think you will give it to us in today's speech to understand it, and we and the citizens who listen to us and judge us. My second comment, and lastly - and I conclude, Mr President - relates to Rule 5, on which we have made a reservation in the committee, which we reserve. Because we mentioned the issue of fences. Ladies and gentlemen, the Scientific Service of the Parliament judges that Article 5 is legally compatible with the environment article 24 of the Constitution, and we hold this as a given. However, we raised the issue of fences for which the Scientific Agency has not been placed. He didn't assess it. Article 5 expressly refers to fences. Mr Tagaras told us not to worry because what is defined as fences does not constitute permanent fences and after the project has been completed, but that they are merely measures to protect the security of citizens while the project is being shaped, because, if there were no fences, there would be accidents. Here legislation on fences exists. So I can understand that this legislation will also be repeated in the text of the law so that we do not have interpretative problems. But if you wanted this, you would refer to the legislation in force. You wouldn't have made a new fence regulation. Secondly, Mr Tagaras promised an amendment to Article 5 with a view to making the Ratio legis very specific, the reason for these arrangements and provisions. He didn't bring her. Therefore, we are entitled - and I say again, without being sorry, without being misled - to ask you what is the feasibility of this regulation in terms of fences, to understand it and to know what we are going to do by voting at the end of today's sitting on articles, in particular Article 5. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. I should like to inform the House that an objection of non-constitutionalism has been raised by the Merra25 Parliamentary Group, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, in Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the draft law. I would ask that it be photocopied and distributed to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u11	I should like to tell you that this debate will take place following the conclusion of the rapporteurs and special speakers' suggestions and the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, who has stated at the beginning of the meeting that he wishes to speak after the rapporteurs and special speakers. Christos Katsotis, a special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. The position of the rapporteurs so far, New Democracy, SYRIZA and Change Movement, the discussion in committees, the answers of the company "ELELENIKI SA", the mayors, as well as the scientists and representatives of the institutions, verify our worst predictions of investment characteristics. It is an investment that successive governments have promoted, by the Government of Papademos of New Democracy - PASOK - LAOS, the Government of Samara of New Democracy and PASOK, the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL and the current Government of New Democracy. Mr. Loverdo, we understand why you don't understand what we're saying. Alas, if you understood. The recognition of SYRIZA's work, and in particular the rapporteur from Ministers of the Government of New Democracy to unlock the investment and solve thousands of loose ends that had been handed over, reveals the commitment of the urban parties, despite the individual differences, to capitalist development, to the implementation of urban planning for Attica. In order to implement this strategic investment, all governments have had to legislate on private investment law so far. The sole incentive for each investment is to ensure a satisfactory profit rate for the investment scheme and its shareholders. Each urban government, as confirmed, regulates the terms of an investment law on behalf of investors, how cheap they will buy land and infrastructure, how they will obtain cheap financing from the state, how they will have cheap and flexible labour for increased, secure profitability. That is why we note that we are not surprised at the consensus expressed in the direction of the Convention, despite the individual points of view. This consensus is the result of a single strategy for capitalist development and no divergences are allowed, no political purposes allowed. That's why one is pushing the other forward faster. Mrs Perka said 'we have made a great deal of effort on this project, and we really want to move on', which is why they are giving a positive vote. The Greek is an example of how governments and government services are aligned to avoid any obstacle to a large investment. Each separate paragraph of the draft law introduces a number of new derogations from the legislation applicable to the work of the Greek State until the special legislation. For each strategic investment, the legislation is cut and sewn to the objectives of the investor. Planning, environmental licensing, construction conditions, licensing methods and construction control are made a 'ladder' for the sake of the national objective of attracting and implementing investment. The government of SYRIZA gave its change, for the first time legislating the placement of casinos within the capital's urban fabric. He also released the casino in Greek and the transfer of Parnitha casino to Maroussi with the appropriate tax rate between 8% and 12%. It widened the way to the start of the investment with the license to establish and operate casinos embedded in the tourist complex. ‘LAMDA’ is only to be financed from the revenues of the concession and operation of the casino free of charge for the rest of the investment project. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government, with a Change Movement, Potami - and New Democracy to declare "residents" - has passed an amendment to speed up the approval procedures for environmental conditions and the issue of building permits in order to resolve the group's hands. SYRIZA, who is currently discreetly complaining about the circumvention of Law 4062/2012, is the one who amended the provisions of this Law on the status of building and environmental licensing. Consolidated the environmental licensing process for the entire property, creating a fast track framework for an environmental impact study on the licensing of other activities in detail, such as park infrastructures and others in principle with specialisation, in order, of course, to cover the environmental impact of the construction of skyscrapers, shopping centers, casinos, i.e. from the construction of a new private city in the city. Today's contract has provisions that solve the investor's hands, such as those for the procedure for the transfer of property rights from the GOI to the "Hellenic S.A.". The fight for how to calculate distribution rights is trying to hide that ultimately throughout the whole area except for public and public utilities, "LAMDA" will have the full ownership, 30% of the land and the right to exploit as if it had been fully owned for nine nine years in the remaining 70% of the land. The issues about pole fence, licensing and demolition implementation, the process of authorising construction and development of electricity and gas distribution networks are not procedural at all, but are translated into high profitability through speeding up procedures, liberalising conditions that were not previously allowed, increasing the value of the land through the conditions for upgrading the property, such as enclosed areas for the development of luxury dwellings with the fence of the new city inside the city. And this fence is not temporary, as has been said. After all, even the legislative improvement Mr Tagaras has committed himself to, you have not yet brought it, and you will probably not bring it to the end. The amendment of the New Building Regulation, which adds to Article 5 - new Article 5A - specific arrangements for the "Metropolitan Pole of Greek - St. Kosmas", lays down new derogations for the benefit of, of course, investment. On the coastal front, which includes the properties of the former Olympic Sailing Center and the National Youth Sports Center of Agios Kosmas, it further liberates the framework of permitted uses. The issue of building permits confers on the investor by means of a provision providing that the pre-authorisation of building permits issued by the Hellenic Office is valid for three years until it has been implemented for one year in respect of the remaining licences. For the same liberated environmental authorisation, in particular in cases of the adoption of a decision of the Central Board of Environmental Licensing, a longer period of 10 working days is set by the meeting, beyond which the investor proceeds on his own initiative, without any restriction. Instead of issuing a licence, the presentation of a study to the Office of the Hellenic Republic shall require it to be approved within 15 days of the expiry of that period and shall be deemed to be automatically approved. Like all estimates, we are able to predict the impact. Let us say some of them: Firstly, experience from the current capitalist crisis reveals that export orientation does not shield any capitalist economy in the context of interdependence between economies. On the contrary, the crisis in the strong countries of the euro area also has implications for the Greek economy. Accordingly, the "tourist monoculture", which was in the plan of the ruling class the "engine" of exiting from the previous crisis and promoted for Athens and the coastal front, showed its limits with the manifestation of the crisis and the blow to tourism and related sectors. Besides, it is well known what is meant by the social life of a region the operation of large groups - casinos, hotels - and the related services that accompany them. Secondly, as far as the implementation of the investment is concerned, the fraud in the creation of a large metropolitan park is revealed. The metropolitan park is the ‘green yard’ of private establishments, i.e. the green area required to maintain high farm prices. If we remove skyscrapers and other facilities - sport, exhibitions, concerts - of the two thousand acres, there are only sixty-sixty-eight acres left. The park is built to make use of and is intended for the area of the current airway in about a hundred acres, where trees are to be planted. In the private city of six thousand acres there are only four main entrances and seven transit routes which can also function as gates to control the flow of attendance and free access. Even these passages in the distribution diagram appear to be narrowed to prevent workers from crossing the walls. Even the free for the common mortals a kilometre of beach that will be created with new port projects, not only is it not enough to meet the needs of the inhabitants, but it will not be free of charge, as can be seen from the placement of property near the Aegean Sea for commercial activities, i.e., the beach by ticket. The implementation of the "ELLINIKI" project other than deprives employees of one of the last large free beaches within the metropolitan web. With economic walls you exclude the people, guaranteeing the value of the properties and with Article 5 enter the transatlantic model of building in a city with natural walls. The protection and enhancement of archaeological finds will enhance the value of luxurious properties that will also have an archaeological site in their courtyard. The six skyscrapers of two hundred meters in height of the Acropolis and buildings of sixteen meters to fifty and seventy meters create a continuous huge wall that surrounds the so-called park and stretches along two thousand five hundred kilometres and parallel to the coastal avenue that changes the nature of Attica as a whole, with negative results of both visual nuisance in the landscape of Attica and climatic impacts on the microclimates of the area. The development of tourist activities will cause a traffic burden in the southern sector, but also in the wider area of Attica, as calculations speak for one million tourists a year only in the Greek area. The implementation of such investments has an impact on the value of the land and on housing and professional housing prices. It brings about the movement of the permanent population, as the growth in tourism leads to the conversion of real estate from former areas of purely touristic residence to a tourist operation through short-term rental, Airbnb platforms, which already creates popular reactions in large European cities. The large commercial centres designed in the area will affect a chain of small enterprises in the services, trade and food sector. In the state's attack by means of a broader legislative framework, competition with large commercial centres operating on Poseidon and Buliangemen Avenues will be added, reducing economic activity in the neighbouring municipalities mainly in commercial, food business and entertainment operations. As far as jobs are concerned, the conditions for remuneration and working conditions will be those applicable to and applied to large-scale projects and as a whole to these sectors. In particular in tourism there are fourteen flexible forms of employment which, of course, remind me of conditions of the far-reaching, that is, cheap labour force without any other rights. You have all shaped this with the memorials and the laws you are continuing with and, of course, with what the New Democracy Government is preparing for, the new job with the abolition of trade union rights. This is also the framework, the friendly environment for investors. It is what you say that 'the markets trust us'. The way out in which we call on the people to fight is first and foremost the organization of their struggles so that the investment can be cancelled or even the aspects of this investment, which bring the most serious consequences to the lives of the workers and residents of the region. From the point of view of the JRC the exploitation of the available land is subject to the combined coverage criterion, which is of course not limited to whether there will be a single green area in a region where urban planning brings together 40% of the country's population, but also the development plan for which we call on the people to fight includes, first of all, ensuring work for all on human terms and hours and ensuring health, ensuring a safe, quality and high level of public housing, ensuring the right to quick and free transport, free of charge, such as schools, hospitals, civil protection structures, measures and anti-flamming and anti-flamming protection, green and recreational areas, ensuring the protection of the environment and passing through the need to ensure quality free time for workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. All this, however, which is mature for all workers to be solved in our time, presupposes that they become the sovereign of the wealth they produce, tossing off the investors' neck and social parasites that exploit him. Withdrawal of the contract is our position. The JRC Parliamentary Group will submit a request for a roll-call vote in principle. As far as the amendments are concerned, we shall refer to secondary. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u13	And we thank Mr Katsotis. Please, after the Step is ready, take the floor for the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliou Viliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. As far as we understand it, there is now a formal consensus of the troika's interior, while the government has acquired a public attorney. Our wishes. The accomplices always agree with each other, although we did not expect it so clearly. On the other hand, viewing the country's continued lending as a criterion without seeing the twin deficits and the great twin debts is the least impressive, at least economically impressive. Unfortunately, our governments still seem to have learned nothing after eleven whole years of crisis, which makes us very sad. Let us hope that at least the Greeks have learned and ceased to support and elect their mortals of the memorials, the crime of the PSI and all their other problems. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as we have mentioned, following a series of bills initiated at the request of the troika, such as the bankruptcy law - an abortion - we will not forget anything - the HERAKLES project or the Hive Down project following the establishment of agencies such as the LAG or the DMEA, as well as the fragmentary arrangements for the pandemic, with which both the economy and health are being destroyed, now have a series of scandalous contracts for the CFS - we see what is going on with Piraeus - the ELDORADO GOLD, and today for the Greek one. In this regard, the Government hopes that the Latsis Group will finally give the EUR 300 million in the budget for the first quarter of 2021, as was stated in the 2020 budget as well, without having been given, in addition to a guarantee of just 30 million renewed in accordance with the Minister, without of course benefiting the public. So far, despite public spending and the provision of land and water, no euro has been given by the investor, who seems clearly to sell, as in the case of the casino, and then he will pay. It's good. We don't do well. Judging now by a report by the Minister of Development in plenary that, in which country is finding the investors who are all asking him two things, firstly, what will happen with the "ELDORADO GOLD" and secondly, when the Greek will begin, it is documented in the best possible way how the government is being blackmailed by these two investment schemes, convinced that it will not be able to attract any investor if they are not completed. It is therefore willing to give land and water to succeed, signing any scandalous contract they present, noting that this is a very well-known trick of international investors to get at degrading prices and with "colonial" contracts that they want from governments that are with the back wall, such as the Greek one. Unfortunately, however, at the same time that this investment has been consumed so much time and energy, there is no need for domestic production, while many companies are leaving Greece - Greek and foreign - when the government is engaged in the monoculture of tourism, which, apart from being pre-cyclical, does not offer quality jobs to our educated mainly young people, who are also leaving the country to survive. Even worse, the government has supported its hopes for growth in 2021 again in tourism, when on the basis of international conditions, new viral mutations, the inability to deal with vaccines, the absence of drugs, etc., it is very likely that it will not recover as quickly as it is expected. Continuing, after noting that even pro-government literature accuses the transitional, state-run and parasitic domestic elites of the 5% supply, as they describe it, as well as we tabled it in the Minutes, the contract is essentially about sharing the extent of the Greek. In particular, apart from the seaside zone net with casino, with expensive houses and a shopping centre in Buliagmeni, in total, only 30% of the plot will be transferred to the ownership of "LAMDA", while the remaining 70% will remain in the TSEDE for nine years as the right to surface. Furthermore, the total area to be exploited is about 6.2 million square metres, while in addition to the former airport it includes nine hundred and six thousand square meters of coastal area with a three hundred-seven marina, various sports facilities and buildings of the former airport, some conservation and new monuments, as well as archaeological sites. The price for the concession - landfill is EUR 911 million, which should normally be discounted to current values, although we do not believe it will happen. The value of the investment depends on the area to be exploited, which, as we mentioned, has changed in relation to the initial offer. The estimated price per square metre, for building square metres only, is EUR 218, according to our calculations in the minutes. It is no coincidence, therefore, that some have mentioned as a sales price for the entire plot the EUR 148 per square metre, as in some remote area of Greece, in a village, not Athens, of course. The TEI, however, has calculated its value at least three times as much, saying it was sold out - the TEI says it, not us - but it was estimated by building 40% of the area, which has now increased. The General Accounting Office of the State shows no cost or benefit in respect of the contract, except for the concession price of EUR 911 million, while the offer of the sole concessionaire in 2014 is used in another topographic plan, with other parameters such as without the casino. The risks of the investment are now several, such as those that would arise in the event that the ‘LAMDA’ would create red loans to the Greek banks and businesses, if the project were abandoned and bankrupt or if the revenues of the existing casinos and retail outlets in the region were to go bankrupt. However, there are even more likely risks, such as any bankruptcy of MOHEGAN, which took over the casino, in cooperation with our new national manufacturer, the "TERNA". We have to note here that MOHEGAN has borrowed 1,4 billion dollars for the repayment of previous debts of 1.4 billion dollars, with an assessment of 'CAA1' by 'MODY'S', which means that it is junk bonuses, that is, with a significant risk, and that there is a warning from its own bankruptcy stock exchange. We filed it in the Minutes. On the other hand, we have asked whether it is the case that the National Bank and Eurobank are discussing with the consortium to borrow entirely, namely with 1 billion. Euro casino, without getting an answer. We wondered how the banks - which the Greeks supported with over 60 billion and which do not lend a single euro to healthy Greek businesses - could find a billion and give it to those who want to represent investors with foreign money. In conclusion, we believe that both the spirit of the original competition and the price have changed. LAMDA is limited to a very small fillet, which is essentially not related to the old airport, while the old airport is transferred to TEAD of the overseas surplus, without a reassessment, as was the case unacceptably with the EBRD's properties. Furthermore, we do not consider the casino as the investment that our country needs, and it poses risks of realisation with negative consequences if the systemic banks finance it. The Greek, more generally, would perhaps not be a bad investment provided the environmental and urban rules, as well as the right price, the right contract and the right funding are respected. Unfortunately, there is none of this. The first article, in which we first find that the buyer is HELLINIKON GLOBAL, is founded on 4-1-2014, based in Luxembourg, the well-known tax haven with the relatively recent tax scandals known as ‘LuxLeaks’. HELLINIKON GLOBAL appears to be a wholly owned subsidiary of LAMDA DEVELOPMENT in its 2014 annual report, with a capital of EUR 36,000, as we submitted in the minutes along with its shareholder composition ‘LAMDA’. The government therefore brings Parliament to vote for a contract that is supposed to be about an investment of several billion euros - 7 to 8 billion euros - from a company with a deposited capital less than that of a grocery store, one pavilion, so we reasonably asked why this is going on. Obviously, in order not to jeopardise the parent, LAMDA, from the investment, which, however, means that the company itself considers it a high risk. Furthermore, the State will be charged with relocating public services, such as the Port Sports Unit, the Saint Cosmas Sports Center, etc., while we do not know the cost, since the State's General Accounting Office has not produced anything. A previous post, however, entitled “Why do many call investment in the Greek scandal?” - not ours, we have tabled it in the Minutes - with a little different fixed, but it has a total cost of relocation of EUR 614 million, which must, of course, be answered by the government. Continuing, what has been problematic to us is the extremely high conditions of land exploitation, with structural factors ranging from 0,2 to 2.2, which, under conditions, may increase up to 20% per development area or region to urbanisation. The average build-up coefficient will be 0.5 to 0.6 and the overall structure will reach three million two thousand square meters, while the coverage, the structured surfaces, will amount to 35% of the total area of the area. The plan allows extensive intervention on the coast, the possibility of afforestations on the sea front, while in total both the beach and the aegialos are granted, allowing the construction of artificial islands and port facilities, without any concern for the nature of the Attica coastlines, marine ecosystems and the urban landscape. As regards the structural parameters, the most important parts of the contract are in the establishment of land rights, where, in general, it is very likely that the State will be subject to incredible public obligations if investors go bankrupt or simply do not repay their obligations. The second article deals with issues relating to various procedures. In the third article and in paragraph 1, it states that full ownership rights are transferred to the GOI by establishing a property right of land of the metropolitan pole of Agios Kosmas - Greek. Furthermore, the transfer of rights from the GOI to the Hellenic Republic is planned to pay the amount of the increase in the capital of Hellenic Republic S.A., while the value of the transferred amounts to EUR 911.200,000. We have already raised objections to the method of calculating the price and to the fact that it is extremely low, while referring to other data. In any case, the government's foregone profit is EUR 2 billion, as it has at least been recorded by TRANSNATIONAL INSTITUTE in its investigation into the privatisation industry in Europe. I shall submit the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Research focuses on the scandal of creditors' requirements for privatisation, a sales outlet better, in the countries of the crisis in 2010, in Greece, in Ireland, in Portugal, in Spain and in Italy. Paragraph 3 provides that the TIADE, as the sole shareholder of HELLENIKI S.A., approves the issue of nine million cents of twelve thousand new registered shares by way of derogation from paragraphs 2 to 9 of Article 17, of Law 4548/2018 and of any other contrary provision. These provisions concern the law of public limited liability companies and in particular the contribution in kind to one company. In other words, the GOI is taking free of charge the land at a price that has arisen from one offer from another company under different data, while on the basis of this contribution it issues shares in the Hellenic Republic S.A., which we assume will be sold to HELLINIKON GLOBAL, which, having only EUR 36 000, will pay them - if it is paid - sometime in the future. Normally, of course, the law stipulates that the contribution in kind should be assessed by two sworn accountants. We can imagine, however, that it is so problematic that no sworn accountant who has agreed to sign it has been found. So it goes by way of derogation, based on the proposal of the particular buyer from the past. If this isn't a scandal, what exactly is it? The fourth article allows the operator of the site to start work before the transfer to "ELLENIKI S.A.", obviously so that the price of 911 000 000 has not been paid beforehand, hopefully at least at some point the advance will be paid. Finally, in the fifth article, the urban arrangements for the Greek, such as for the high building, for the unacceptable fence of spaces, etc. are being introduced. The sixth article is typical, it is the entry into force. In conclusion, in an area where the government sold out against a lentil plate, an investment will be launched, creating a city within the city, in which the muziers - as the Greeks have become - will have no access to its beaches. It will change, and the climate in both the region and Athens, while, among other things, the temperature will rise by five degrees - according to what we have heard - by increasing air conditioning costs in the summer months. Especially with regard to Amendment 807, we will put forward in the Minutes a proposal for the reconstruction of the National Prospects Programme, because our aim is to be truly constructive in Parliament for the benefit of Greece and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. I call on the Stepma for his own introduction, the special speaker of Mera25, Mr. Kritona Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Parliamentarians and MPs, Mr Secretary, the bill we are discussing is illegal. In fact, it gives twice as much space as a private person who, for half, had competed with others for a particular price. It's the same story as "Mall", where you changed the terms for "LAMDA" after a celebration. You're building a walled city, something that doesn't exist in Greek reality. Enter it from countries that have a separation of ghettos with rich settlements with wall. What should we discuss in this bill? We should discuss the Greek metropolitan park, the great opportunity of Athens. This is not a lost chance, because your plans are still sticking to the Council of State. With what you are bringing, they will not proceed, because what is envisaged here is not possible to pass through the Council of State. We should be discussing a life-threatening lung of the inhabitants of a city that not only suffers from the cloud, but will see huge thermostats in the next summers, a town with a minimum green per inhabitant, a city where air quality is so bad that it has been announced in practice that it follows after Thessaloniki and Athens's condemnation of the city's air quality and the violation of European directives. This also applies to Volos, of course, where you burn the waste. In this Chamber we should discuss the opportunity to highlight the public coastal front, which is public and accessible to every citizen. That means - because we have started and forgotten what public space means - that every citizen is richer, because he has the right to quality of life, he has the right to access the beach, to recreation, to the park. Could there be commercial activities in this public metropolitan park? Yeah, they could. Buildings built by the public through international competitions, building ornaments, could be rented for private individuals, to have restaurants and other actions, so that this park is economically viable. Would he produce GDP? Yes, much bigger than what you will produce with this investment that will never be done and stay on paper. However, it will not be produced by a private person. That's the big difference. The attraction of this metropolitan park of Greece would produce jobs and economic growth through all the businesses that would be developed in the surrounding municipalities, within the urban fabric, from small and medium-sized enterprises, from hotels, shops and restaurants. And what are you doing? A broom lining for any other activity in the municipalities of southern Athens. It's called the trade clubs of Glyfada and other municipalities. With these malls you create, you compete with. You don't create jobs. You concentrate some activities and some employment on one or two individuals, when you close all small and medium-sized enterprises. That's what you're doing. You talk to us at times about jobs without ever talking to us about how many will be closed, how many will be lost. Of course, you know with what wages these jobs are, with what sustainability these businesses are that you make. Some have talked about Athens that will have the back to the sea. Now Athens will have its back on a wall behind which the sea will be. It is utopian to discuss today for the great metropolitan park of Athens, the "Greek", which together with the park "Antonis Tritsi", the park "Goudi" and the park "Lippaps", could make a network of metropolitan parks that will breathe in Athens. It's not utopian at all. It should be self-evident. And you will all have to go there through the movements that will appeal to the Council of State. It should be the real flagship work. Why are you talking about flagship projects, only about what is destroying the environment, about the fight against the climate crisis, and of course they are destroying jobs and the local economy. Squirrels, Greek, mining. The flagship works today in the century of the climate crisis are the ones that show that we understand where we stand and where we are, building walls not separate rich and poor but protection from the tsunami of the climate crisis, with more green, with more protection than the heaters. What do we have in front of us? The largest public-private project in a city centre, in a centre of urban fabric in Greece. The New Democracy is being trampled over with SYRIZA and the Change Movement for who did most. The Change Movement apologizes even for once asking for a metropolitan park. I will never forget Alexis Tsipras' election speech in 2019 in the Constitution that, after explaining how much the SYRIZA government did to improve the contract - the truth is that he did some things to improve the contract - he continued that this largest Mediterranean fillet cannot be untapped. Is that your idea of public metropolitan parks? Fillets that shouldn't be left untapped? We are discussing this bill when the appeal of movements - as you know I have participated in these appeals - are still pending in the Council of State. Of course, with what you're bringing us here, the battle in the Council of State will last for a long time. It includes the bill this incomprehensible: fence between the settlements, between the various uses in the park, not only during the construction. No one should be misled. The bill says that by way of derogation uses can be separated and then. We will have a wall to separate the Municipality of Greek with the settlements, the private villages to be built by the "LAMDA". Favelas and rich neighborhoods, are you visualizing? Not even in Akalia, not even in Kifisia. But illegal privatisation is shocking and will actually fall into the Council of State. We see that in this public contract, and the HICP share the extent to be privatised. Except this 30% shares disproportionately, you know. On the coastal front, LAMDA DEVELOPMENT is taking more, the TIADE, at the moment. It also takes all open spaces where the hotel is to be built. But it impressed us that it did not take the place that the casino would be built. Really how did you miss that? What happened and he got away? We'll see later, of course, that you didn't miss it. You decided to privatize it illegally. By confiscating private property that you otherwise rent them for a short period of time for you ninety years, for three generations of citizens. You are increasing the private share from 30% to about 40% by including public spaces in the concession to TIADED. So 30% is from a much larger number of acres than it should be. And it's 40 percent except for public spaces. After you do this, you continue privatization in the sense of the surface. The right to surface means ownership for nine nine years and then these territories and buildings are contained in the public sector. What are you doing? You allow the surface to be partitioned by the surfacer without the consent of the Greek State. And then, after rights are created, he can actually keep it. That's the point. He owns property rights. And so the extent that is privatized will not go to 40%. It's going to over 50%. Of course, if something moves away and wants to be corrected by investors, in good cooperation with governments, they can do so because the obvious mistakes are changed only by written agreement without specifying anywhere what is manifestly a misunderstanding, and these should be decided by the Council of State. But we see that as much as you become a government servile in business, in the three business interests of the country, these investments against the public interest will not go any further. We are told by the publications "BUSINESS DAILY" and by another site. 2.2 billion is being sought for casinos and infrastructures. Another point in the article speaks of 2.8 billion missing from the 'LAMDA' and the 'HOGAN' to be able to meet the casino and infrastructure commitments. Despite what you've given them. Malls like what you want to build, you make them before the concession, before they become the owner of the "LAMDA". You give her the right to build a commercial space, mall, to clean up local, small businesses before you give her the plot, that is, the metropolitan park. LAMDA's bad position seems to be due, as the report says, to the fact that malls no longer have the competition of small businesses but have e-commerce. That is why before the coronary crisis, mall began to lose revenue, and that is why the misplaced position of the 'LAMDA'. They wonder how banks really support this investment when it has been announced that 11 000 homes will be sold immediately. Where? In Greece today? How many years? Where will the people who will buy them be found? With such sizes inflated, you support these investments. You inflate them when the buyer is the state. As was done for the PPPs of the Peloponnese waste that the European Union has turned it back to you as over-dimensional. But when he's a private buyer, that's not enough. With regard to 'HOGAN', banks seem to be asking themselves on the basis of the reports how it is possible to support the viability of the casino when a minimum of five million visitors - users and a maximum of 10. Where will these visitors be found in Greece today and tomorrow in order to be sustainable? Of course, I am also obliged to refer to an amendment from you, a customer amendment which makes me deeply disturbed. You want to level in three days what's left of Karamanlis' adversity. You should be ashamed of this amendment. There is no similar example throughout Europe of destroying the cultural heritage of a country. Those cities that were not released are the only ones who kept the cultural heritage, such as Andrianoupolis, Filipoupolis, Ohrid, Argirokastro. Look at those who didn't fall into our hands. There were Greek populations who owned it. Look what we did to those that we liberated. This crime that's embarrassing, you're still going on with it. Within three days one hundred - ninety - year - old buildings will be demolished because they were judged ready - to - work. With the exception of keepers, you will be demolished whole traditional settlements. As after the Grevena earthquake, you prepare Samos, Syros and everywhere. You remove all the advisory bodies which would be responsible for this, by the Ministry of Culture, the Architecture Council, the Tripartite Committee of the Presidential Decree of 1929. We have the law providing for the automatic declaration of these sites. But one should do the proclamation procedures. You will tear them down before these mandatory support procedures are made. Shame on you! Shame on you! On behalf of our children, of the next generations, your shame, for what you leave to the cultural heritage of the country. Law 3828/2002 provides for synergy between the Ministries for the rescue of these buildings. The presidential decree never happened. Therefore, instead of bringing this presidential decree, you bring about a three - day demolition of preserved buildings, two hundred - year - old. Shame on you! MARA25 reintroduces four amendments until you have the common sense of accepting them. Permanentization of workers to cleanliness. We have a hundred cleaners and cleaners at the Ministry of Finance for about twenty years with eighteen months of contracts that are renewed. They keep working there. And yet, Minister, you're sending them on the road. Now it's on the brink of retirement. In the midst of this economic crisis, which you need for the coronary, you are sending them on the road to re-appoint them, these or others, through a workshop that you will pay the same - if not more - through individuals who will pay them half the wages.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u17	Do you know what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u18	Reduction of VAT rates in the Aegean islands. It's a memorial measure. Take it back now with the crisis and restore the reduced rates for the Aegean islands. It must be around the seventh time we ask you to. Integration into the heavy and unhealthy professions of workers in the courier, the drivers of dual-circuit, courier and external work. It's an obvious thing. Ask the MPs of any party. Is it possible for these people who are at risk, let alone now, not to be in heavy and unhealthy? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Stop the power of the bankruptcy code. It's the obvious thing in this poorness situation. Stop the bankruptcy of the Greek households that you have legislated, directed and launched by means of intimidation the confiscation of the property of all households and individuals who owe more than 30 thousand euros, who have guaranteed more than 30 thousand euros or have inherited or inherited a person who owes more than 30 thousand euros. Their property is being created, since for the third time the auction is fruitless. You buy it, without giving them 1 euro in the pocket, so that their debt is reduced. You take their homes, and then the lenders and their bills and all their personal property. You're feeding them up and using them as if they were corporations. The appeals against what appears to be on the way and we will also discuss them in the anti-constitutional plea. We invite you to make a metropolitan park the Greek for climate change, employment, environment, the local economy and quality of life. We call on you to stop favouring a few businesses, dismantling the social fabric, bringing citizens into poverty by closing small businesses, again and again, a bill with a bill. Mera25 is voting against the entire bill and every article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Velopoulos, I'm sorry. The Minister wants the floor for very little.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u21	Mr. President of the Greek Solution, I apologise. I will not respond to the rapporteur's designations from Mera25. You know, it's very important from who they're running. These designations are often returned to the same person or are honorable to those to whom they are attributed. Especially for a party and a political leader who destroyed Greece. But what I don't accept...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u22	Bravo! Drop the ball on the platform!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u23	There's one serious thing in the Chamber, I suppose, but you don't leave it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Gregoryde, don't interrupt. Mr. Arsenis wasn't interrupted. We have been dismayed here by the shame, shame and shame. Here you go, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u25	On the substance, therefore, two comments. Firstly, for once, your rule is as follows: avoid quantifying the proposals you make, because you know that they are not quantified. And secondly, the end of populism. We have announced from the 11th of March what we are doing at the Ministry of Finance and we are literally following what happened in 2018. So read and then place yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u26	The President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, now has the floor. Immediately after the end of the speech of the President of Greek Solution, we will begin the process of objecting to unconstitutionalism. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would like to start with the last thing you said. And you and all the ministers of the New Democracy have in the past taken the criminal errors of Mr. Varoufakis. Isn't that right? In the first half of the year, 100 billion, 70 billion, 40 billion. If you want us to believe you, then, or if you want to be believed, and your Government, it would be wiser to do a committee of inquiry. Why don't you do it? We asked for it fifteen times to see if Mr Varoufakis and Mr Varoufakis really really did lose our country 100 billion. Because when we talk about 100 billion, it's a lot of money, Minister. If you have them in your pocket and you give them away, give them away. We do not, however, give a single euro in the pocket of the Greek people. Not even 1 euro! I don't think I'd say a lot about 100 billion. Why don't you do it? We challenge you one more time. We challenge you! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Look down, Minister, on your papers. You took the glove, throw it to the gentleman of Mera25, you said: 'it is your fault'. Good. Make an exam to see how the 100 billion lost. Because 100 billion is a huge sum. Because for about 32 billion, which you say we will get from the European Union, you are doing tents. You're saying we lost 100 billion. It was with this that you pre-electioned against SYRIZA and against Mr Varoufakis, whom you said was a bad economist, that he destroyed Greece, a lot and a lot. Prove it, then. Why don't you take a look at the 100 billion to see how they were lost, and who got them? Once again, I blame you for covering up. If you don't, it's called cover. So let's actually go, Minister, how much you are, how predictable. You're the same. You all agree weirdly. Let me tell you in Greek you suddenly agreed. You agreed to the Greek and SYRIZA and the New Democracy and the Change Movement. You've all agreed. You know, when teams enter the football game do a practice, it's training on coup d'état. But Mr Mitsotakis is about to attack Mr. Tsipras at all sciences. He's attacking everything. He's charged everything by Mr. Tsipras. And Mr. Tsipras's point is to fight against Mr. Mitsotakis for everything. But that is what is important. In fact you agree, as for the Greek, which is a monstrous thing in the area, which the investment was made with the Greek people's money from Alpha Bank and banks that the Greek people guaranteed their viability. That's where Latsi's loans went from, isn't it? From banks of our own, our money, about 60 billion that they took for recapitalisations. These are not investors. These are state-owned investors. That's how I'm being an investor. If you want us to believe, Minister, and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that you have no cover and no coup d'état, the President of Parliament must tomorrow morning, Mr Tasouulas, bring the debate to the House for our two proposals: Press and Eye. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] To bring them here and not to seek the victims, the new MPs, the new Members, to defend the protocols to be signed with Skopje among the Members of the New Democracy. See how politically you are. I am very sorry to say this because there are Members of the New Democracy, from northern Greece, especially who feel bad. From 'feeling bad', however, until 'I support a government that murders Macedonia itself and the Macedonian national dignity' there is a small step, called the MP's chair. That's the truth! Of course I can say something simple. Cases with the pre-constitution, i.e. March, ends history, are mentioned. If it is not now for Matti and it is not now for the Prespecies, at the end of March we are done, as at the end of March we are done with the fishing zones which the New Democracy still does not do. You don't even make the fishing zones. I'll say something about the Left. The Left made the marches. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, were you arresting? None. The president of the Pakistani community marched. You've been arresting? Nothin'. Churches, though. This is where it bothers me. In order for the New Democracy, my dear Minister, to come here the ones who have thrown us a door, that is, their representatives. Instead of McCrone, the Minister of National Defence, instead of Putin, his Prime Minister, will come, because you just have - I will say it directly - he plays a crown of foreign policy and diplomacy and you have lost. Because the door from McCrone, the door from Putin and Biden are very important for getting past them. They are unfortunate choices that dragged the country internationally. So it turns out once again that you are not acting as a Greek government. You know what is happening now with embassies and it seems strange to me that no party is talking. All embassies are rebels, Minister, do you know that? Do you know why, Minister? May I let you know? Would you like to know a little bit? It's the job, the I.D. business. The ID business is 515 million euros and they got a fire at the Ministry and at the Maximos Mansion who'll get the job. Embassy of Japanese, French, German beating the phones in a blanket. The business is all they care about, 515 million euros. That is what Greeks are interested in embassies and what the government is interested in. And here, of course, SYRIZA doesn't talk, because in the competition he had made at the time, he made the mistake - I don't know, so they ruled with mistakes - not to include the colour identity in it. And now we're on our way to a 500 million-dollar business, and no one's talking, no one's weird. The embassies only speak on the phones. The Greek parties are not talking about the huge business of EUR 500 million. And because I want to be honest with New Democracy and since I sincerely want to show the priorities of this party, the party of Constantine Karamanlis, who was actually talking about home, family religion, symbols, concepts and terms, what did the New Democracy MEPs do? They did not vote for amendments calling for an end to the massacres of Christians all over the world. Where Christians were slaughtered they took the European Parliament resolution and the New Democracy MEPs did not vote for it. Turkey's condemnation was not passed by the New Democracy MPs. Invasion Libya and Nagorno - Karabakh did not vote for the New Democracy MPs. They did not vote for the Gran Wolves' designation as a terrorist organisation. No reaction. The only thing they reacted was the choice of Kyboropoulos, who did it backwards later, with the abortions and LGBTKI. Of course, this is the oxymomile, ladies and gentlemen, of all the parties. You are all in favour of the abortions that are a murder, as the doctors say, because you say the body is a woman. The vaccine you want to pass indirectly the body of what you accept is not his? I do not understand that, that is to say, the definite interpretation of terms and the definite interpretation of specific behaviours. We're going to be serious right now. Minister, gentlemen of the New Democracy. I'll remind you of this. Tomorrow we have March 25th. The '21 Revolution, do you know why it happened, ladies and gentlemen? I will not go into the logic of historical regression or conflict of views on class revolution and fairy tales. No, because there were Greeks. The Revolution was held by the Greeks. And the biggest problem of the Greek nation by a recommendation from our nation is that we die demographically, that the Greeks end. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'll give you some clues. In 2020: thirty - one thousand eight hundred thirty - nine deaths and just eighty - five thousand six hundred five births. The first two months of 2021: thirteen thousand five-year-olds. We're going to fall under eighty thousand births, but this is where the illegal immigrants are born. Immigrants are constantly born, illegal people are born. Immigrants give birth to children and Greeks don't give birth. The new Republic also considered it appropriate for its national debt to make a committee for LGBTKI, but not for demographics. Is that the value of the Greek nation for the New Democracy? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Do you have such anxieties as to whether Greece dies or ends the Greek nation? I know the MPs are struggling. I am sure of this, and I know it, because they have patriotic attitudes, but stand up and say no to the Prime Minister. Let's go to the rest. Some extremes, therefore, in Europe in backward countries such as Hungary, are making demographic policies and do not let illegal immigrants invade. I mean, that's called fascism for some. We legalise illegal immigrants, illegal immigrants to solve demographics and to jam us, as the Greek Prime Minister said. And when I say "we", I don't mean us. I mean you of the New Democracy, because we have another perception and perspective for Greece. Incentives for Greeks to give birth to Greek mother, incentives to give Greeks home. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We fought for the parade. We've been fighting for a month to make the parade. No people? I am in favour of marching, I have said it another time, because it is a constitutionally guaranteed right for people to be dealt with, gathered and marched. For the churches that are closed, however, I never saw the Left protest. For this fascist autocratic, authoritarian, antidemocratic measure of the government closing the churches, the Left never protested. How are we gonna make a parade? Will only the officials go? And we'll see what? Where's the world, where's the confession? Where is what we're talking about inspiring the Greeks? How to remember the message of the Revolution of 1821? How will we feel this message, 'Freedom or Death', which is more timely than ever around the world? You tell me and I'll figure it out, Minister. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Minister, I will use something of a kindness, according to the Prime Minister - he has said it before - a political leader, the only one, in my view, who went through the country and went to build a country and not a country. "The victory will be ours if it reigns in our heartlessness only the Greek."Ioannis Kapodistrias. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] That's what the Greek Solution says, Mr. Minister, something that the New Democracy dares not do and say. That is why I call on all Greeks from today, in one minute, in an hour, to raise their homes the blue flags, honor and glory to the dead Greeks who fell to be free today and to speak. Now we're going to the mistakes. Minister, you're making criminal mistakes. I will tell you, because the late Constantine Karamanlis, the beggar of this party called the New Democracy, said: "Every ten years Greece has missed an opportunity. She's kicking her luck." Constantine Karamanlis said so and it was a historic moment for you to make the defensive agreement with France, with Mr McCrone and you did not. That's why McCron didn't come to Greece, because you smacked France. You said you'd take planes and ships and eventually, apparently, you won't take the ships and stall the defensive deal. What you're going to do is crime. The only country that could help, because it has common interests with Greece for its own reasons, for Africa, for the Middle East, is France. It's France, understand it. France, Israel and Egypt, if you wish, together with other countries, we have common interests in the face of Nazi, fascist Turkey of the authoritarian Erdogan Fascist. Make a defensive deal with France at last. Buy ships that are airborne and not American rots. Understood! Now we're going to a black page that I saw with my eyes. I was two and a half days in Lesvos. I went to Montenegrin, went to areas where illegal immigrants - unfortunately, why don't you listen to us - live in terrible conditions. Illegal immigrants live in mud. That's a truth. And how do all of you and the Left, the philanthropists, stand there and don't react? What does the Greek solution say? To take them into remarkable structures, human structures on uninhabited islands, so that local society is not affected. This is the only solution, the Greek one. There's no other way people can live decently and not throw them in the trash! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I'm sorry because Lesvos is dying. New Democracy has kept an ex-girlfriend, a strange guy, Mr. Duroudus from SYRIZA. He is the police director of the Eastern Aegean, who, Mr. Colleague, is hunting only the Greeks. A hundred and fifty motions against the Greeks and not one against illegal immigrants, by order of his own, Mr. Durudus. Who is holding and why does this gentleman keep them and how can he do what he wants against the Greeks in Lesvos? I'll tell you to understand it. When false solidarity comes out and congratulating Mr. Durudus, we must be afraid, we must be afraid of the role he serves and serves. I'm telling you. The gentleman's gonna come out of there because he's causing problems. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Here there is also a lawsuit from the police themselves, the low grades against Mr. Durudus, a lawsuit against the police, his subordinates against their chief, against their commander. I'll testify to her for the Minutes. And that's to understand who New Democracy places in the police force, poachers, poachers, poachers, and I don't know what else. Police officers' problems. I won't mention it. I'll say they're doing 20 hours. They have no health protection beyond a mask. They do patrols in old patrols all day under the hot sun. Pedestrians and pedestrian patrols in Montenegro without a container, without a shadow. They only have one chemical toilet for thirty-three security officers. Irrespective conditions and dangerous to the police. All of you swear to them, but the cops are our friends, they're our neighbors, they're our brothers, our cousins, they're our people, they're the people who will run, if our lives are at stake, to protect us. There are always bad guys like Durudus and every Durudus. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] 50% of the forces have gone to Montenegrin. And here's the big question. Montenegrin is an archaeological site. How was the structure allowed there, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and the New Democracy? How could you, my Minister, become a structure in an archaeological site? It's an archaeological site. If a Greek goes to an archaeological site to build his cabin, throw him out with the kicks. It's an archaeological site! And also, to see the downside of the Greek state, the modern Greek state, I will tell you this. He's being persecuted. - A cop from Mr. Durudus or whatever he's called. I don't know where the man comes from. He's been chasing cops himself with signatures of his own. Public official of the wider public sector - hold! - is constantly suing military, officers and police officers, Mr. Palaskas working at the RES, the Athenian News Agency. Palaska, regulator of Lesvos' social peace. He sued a Greek officer because he posted something he disagreed with on his Facebook. Now listen to me and understand. The fans of diversity, when you disagree with them and have a different opinion, are suing you. These are not followers of diversity. They're fans of fascism who govern their choices. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] They disagree with everything else. And a Greek officer is being persecuted, because he wrote something on Facebook that disturbed Palaska. And the lieutenant, who has received a good report, is persecuted, because by risking his life, he entered under a chariot that had turned back and saved the people who were on the chariot, the Greek girls. This is Greece, Palaska, Duroudus, who have made Lesvos - I will say it directly - a bourgeoisie man in there, as the non-governmental organizations, who have gone and seen with my eyes on the mountains grow a balm and hashish and sell it among themselves. And there's nothing the state can do. Is that a state? Fear the Greeks, fear the Lesbians? Shame on all of us! Shame on you! Take them to the uninhabited islands, to beautiful human structures, to structures real. No, Mr. Colleague, Mitaris should go to the penitentiary in Evros and with strange papers - not to say fake papers - to alter the whole region. I'm going to file reports already. We're going to appeal to S.T.E. I will help the people as long as they take us, because I have attempted - and I will say it again - to take the fields, but they have also sent me the message that the order will be either you take them or not. Well, we're going to the S.T.E. Are we gonna pay what it takes - $10,000 20,000? - to keep the Greek penitentiary without any structure at the border. It's over and out. You will not play with the national sovereignty of the country! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Also, let's go to health. I blame you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the Change Movement and SYRIZA. You've achieved the impossible, all of you. They studied in our country eighteen thousand doctors, gentlemen of the New Democracy, Greek birds, with the money of the Greek state, because our education is free as long as we can say for free. They were studied by the Greek state at the Greek university, and today they are working abroad eighteen thousand doctors. They migrated the best minds of the country, and now we beg, by order, as if we lived in other seasons of seven years, to take two hundred as doctors, while there were eighteen thousand Greek birds. Why did these people leave? Have we ever wondered why six hundred thousand Greek birds left, the flower of Greek society abroad for immigrants? I have relatives working in England with postgraduate doctorates. I have friends working in Germany. Why did these people leave? Why? I'll tell you now. I blame you for taking them out of the country. You didn't do anything to stay here. I blame you all. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And if you want a share of responsibility, first there's PASOK, then New Democracy and little SYRIZA, because SYRIZA just ruled. You didn't do anything to keep them here. I blame you all on the opposition - and I say it raw - for not talking about the unconstitutionality of the measures, about the shameful lockdowns, which are fascist, which are authoritative, which are the measures of the pandemic for anyone, because having such pressure is not justified in a democracy. I also blame you that while you are all in favour of Lockdown, you are marching. So I blame you for that too. While you are in favour of Lockdown only for the churches, only for the Greeks, you leave uncontrollable all the marches. I blame you for the fact that while you themselves do the same, you do not ask for the world to go to the churches, you do not demand that you on the left, for fighting for the rights of the Greeks and for democracy, the same rights for Greeks, but for illegal immigrants. This is called a shared concept of democracy. This is said - I will say raw, to understand - the wrong conception of democracy. We either all have rights or no one has them. Decide. No racism against the Greeks. I also blame you on the Left because only recently EUR 65 000 was the damage to the occupation of some bums. For these are, of course, outside universities, so as not to be confused, because they have been arrested outside universities and not students who are protesting and who have the right to protest. These extra-universities have damaged 65,000 euros. Who's gonna pay for this? The SYRIZA MPs who were outside? The JRC MPs? The Greek Solution? The New Democracy? Who's gonna pay for this? The Greek people from their misery, which they don't have. And that hurts me, because the Greeks went bankrupt and went bankrupt by the mistakes of the political system. Also, I'll say it to understand it: Lockdown is criminal. The universal closure of society is criminal, it is a solution that increases cases, because intra-family transmission, transmission within the family, as it is limited our ability to go out, breathe, breathe, talk, communicate. You cut it all off! You are not complaining about Lockdown, about the universal closure in SYRIZA. Why? The parties do not complain that everything is unconstitutional. Why? No reason! The other issue, and I live here. Since April we have said so, SYRIZA has said so in May, if I'm not mistaken, do rapid test. We've been calling it the first time, but not that. Not my grandfather's gonna go get the rapid test or go to the pharmacy to beg. Where's the family doctor coming to Grandpa and Grandma to run the test to make sure of the result? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Where's the family doctor? Where's the primary care? And the New Democracy that destroyed the National Health System on Adoni Georgiadis and continues the story now. Where are all these people? Have you realised that rapid test can lead to dangerous and wrong conclusions? The wrong rapid test, because there are also "monkey" rapid test. The Greek Solution had introduced a massive free test with the presence of specialist doctors at each one's home from the beginning of the pandemic. The government has replicated us with delay and in the wrong way. I would also like to talk about a subject that has been raised recently in terms of telematics. We have a generation of a whole year that learns from the computer and is trained and taught. It's criminal for children's psychocomposition, for young children, for six-year-olds, for seven-year-olds, it's murder of their souls. The New Democracy has killed the young children for a whole year, 'killed' their souls. Research by the Department of Philosophy and Pedagogics of Aristotle University: Anxios 71.5% in children. Psychic exhaustion 63% in children. A sense of routine 55.5% on the kids. And above all, lack of communication, lack of dialogue and smile. Mother afraid to hug the child? Grandpa has not seen his grandchild for months and weeks? Are we all right? CISCO is also coming. And go to SYRIZA for resuming the subject. Good for you! I ask the government and I want the Minister personally to answer. Did New Democracy provide personal data of one and a half million Greeks? Did you give money? Because you said here that we do not give. The story smells like a big scandal. Big scandal! Personal data of Greeks without their consent is a felony. Some people will pay if that's done. Answers, but with transparency. There's no sense in this government. I'm sick of it now. They open up, they say, hairdressers and aesthetic centers. You're doing good! But you do not open bookshops so that they can buy a book and read it at home. You open the fishing, but you don't open the stores that sell bait. You're not in your good hands. What will the fisherman fish with? With his boots? What's he gonna put in the hook for the fisherman to fish? On the other hand, only if it has a boat and it's in the sea will be able to fish. On the beach itself, no. I'm disgusted by the disgust of the experts you've gathered. Because they are epic, their "ass"s. Now they're opening amateur sport. When we talked about it in April, we were the weird ones. Now all of a sudden, you're opening him up. Then why did you turn him off? Now you're saying it's burdening the transmission of the virus. Then why did you turn him off? You shut him down, get him back in. What's that thing? Is our homeland with you? Is Greece your shop, where you open and close whatever time you want? Are we all right? Why don't you sit down, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Koutsoubas, Mr. Varoufakis, Mrs. Gennamas, talk and make a plan at any rate, since you can't? You don't have it. I'm irritating because I'm a businessman, you know. There's no revenue from my company, there's no revenue from Greek companies. And Mr. Besiropoulos - not himself - is chasing the world's taxpayers. They went to a hairdresser yesterday. Listen, Mr. Flambury, what the tax collectors have done. They asked for all paints for two years, calculated weight, divided by the individual how much each gram goes and fined 200,000 euros, because on the basis of the pounds of paint they had to make fifty thousand heads. That's the ones we want. That's how they do to the pizzas. Based on the flour, they make how many pieces they sold and they're looking for evidence they didn't cut. Taxis have become head hunters, hunting only Greeks. I want the Minister who's here telling me how many checks you've been doing under the Omonia in Pakistani stores. How many checks did ADI go to do, IASA in non-Greek stores under the Omonia? Why are you chasing them if they're closed? Five or five inside like cowboys. I'm telling you, I saw it with my eyes in a hairdresser in Thessaloniki, and I was in shock. Six people entered the shop, the Rabos entered the style "close, sit down", as if the bogeyman enters. But are you putting them to hate the Greeks? You take them off the streets to hate Greece? Ask your friends, Mr. Minister, Mr. Stakoura, about taxi, what is the concept of the average Greek for taxiers. You want to reduce the tax evasion? Put the tax on 15% tomorrow morning and there will be no tax evasion. But when the state becomes a partner and a pimp in the business mine or in any business, he'll look for ways to steal. It's 75% tax if I put it all together. Which state have you seen this in? You tell me. It has now been reduced by the Prime Minister to his honor. He put it down another one. Download to 15% and 10%. You'll have more revenue. I'm telling you. But in a market closed to defile me to tax collectors, who go to the other, and they say to him "how many pieces have you taken?" I'm telling you, for a float now. "A hundred meters? So you made two chairs. After you have fewer evidence, pay a fine of EUR 10,000." What are these things, where are we? Let's go to the disinformation, and I'm closing here. You said 'Stamp in November'. You said 'priests on Christmas'. Gentlemen of the New Democrat Republic, you said: 'Date of Halloween'. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you said'stamp on 1 March'. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you said'stamp on March 22nd'. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you said'stamp on 25 March'. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are now saying 'Stamp, Good Easter, Good Fifteen'. You don't rule like that, you don't rule a country like that. You lead her to the cliff, to the rocks. Also, if it turns out now that the infested Prime Minister is entitled to both Lockdown and the vaccines and the wrong measures you have taken, then what do the sprayed outsiders have to say about your strayers? I'll tell you. I won't tell you unscrupulous or sprayed. But I will tell you a word that is clearly mentioned in the New Democracy. 'Successful'. You're a loser, a perfect mansion! You failed. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] To see how you failed, strangely, the Prime Minister, Mr. Flabourari, comes out and announces that tourism 15 May is opening. One week before the Greek Prime Minister announces it, I enter the 'TUI' - because I know from Germany - and I see that the packages are starting from 15 May. In other words, the 'TUI' knew it one week ago and the Greek Parliament learns it one week after 'TUI'. Coincidence, too. From 15 May, if you enter the "TUI", you can book in Crete, in Rhodes, where you want, a vacation. So is it a serious country that the President of a party or the MP or anyone else here learns that the 'TUI' first decided and then the New Democracy executed? Is that how New Democracy works, what Germany does? We said it was Germany's colony, but let's not be German slaves. Other debt colony, other command colony and other slaves. We have also tabled the proposals for the coronary virus too many times. The Court of Human Rights comes out and asks a question - a slap in the Greek Government. Do you know why? For violating the individual rights of citizens of Lockdown. He didn't say any channels. Neither the 'SCAI', nor the 'STAR', nor the 'ALPHA', spoke of the mandate of the Court of Human Rights, of the slap to the government of blaming us for human rights violations due to Lockdown. And it is confirmed that the Greek Solution has been shouting for a long time, that as New Democracy governs the only MITs - the initials, as an arctex - that we will be left with repentance, confession and the Divine Society. Because you can't even do IDs! Don't forbid us to communize at least! It's a disgrace! Learn to rule not on paper, but on substance. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And one last thing. Decide, Mr Ministers and Members of the New Democracy, with whom you are. Who are you with? Are you with Greek citizens, or are you with the orders of the Germans and the LGBTKI, their committees, the funds that come for hatred to various people, Durundus and others who exercise violent power in Lesvos without apologies to anyone? So we tell you that we know that in the background all the voters of the New Democracy, all the voters of all the parties are with Greece. But I'm from here to prove it, do it. Prove it! We are with Greece and the Greeks. You choose with who you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I will give the floor to the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr Economou, to put it on the amendment. Come on, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u29	This is Article 6 of the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Energy, which deals with dealing with a side-effect of the pandemic, the problem of the functioning of collective bodies, in this case the Improvement Agency throughout the country. They are organisations distinguished by primary and secondary bodies, local IMPs and General IMPs. What's the matter? The rules of operation, the statutes of these agencies are too old. There was no provision for dealing with conditions like those that have arisen with the pandemic, so that it could face a number of problems in terms of their term of office, but also in terms of making critical decisions. With the amendment to Article 6 we come to deal with these difficulties on the basis of requests and regions overseeing the functioning of the TWGs, but also the agencies themselves throughout the country. Let me say that today there are four hundred sixteen such organisations all over the country, which are agricultural cooperative organisations of forced form and, above all, they are involved in the projects to maintain, operate and improve the infrastructure in their areas of activity. What do we do with Article 6? We do three things: First of all, the term of office of those bodies which expired from November last year, when the restrictive measures entered into force and it was not possible to extend their term of office, is extended by a decision of the regional administration concerned until 30 June 2021, two months each time and, if the restrictive measures are still in force, the possibility of extending their term of office until then at the latest. And, of course, once the measures are lifted, the regions are obliged to carry out the electoral procedures and antiquities normally. The second thing we are doing is that in order to make a number of critical decisions, such as the adoption of budgets, on the basis of which they will hire staff, they will buy equipment, they will do all the necessary procedures to properly operate the irrigation system in their areas of responsibility, because it is not possible to make these decisions by the general assembly, as provided for in their statutes, so we allow them to approve the budget either by rotation, by teleconferencing or by any other appropriate telecommunications instrument. Thirdly, by decision of the Ministries of Home Affairs and Rural Development and Food, we give them the opportunity to define the implementation functions of the present as long as they last for the restrictive measures due to COVID. It is, I think, an amendment that deals with operational issues. I hope it will be widely accepted, if not universally accepted. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u31	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u32	The Minister for Finance, Mr Stavros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u33	Madam President, thank you very much. I would like to put forward some legislative improvements following the debate in committee and the position of the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Tagaras. He will then develop them. It's practically about fences. It adds concepts such as'security', such as 'temporary fence' and a series of other legislative improvements. Mr. Tagaras will make a full report next. I shall put them in the Minutes, so that all Members can be informed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, as mentioned at the beginning of the meeting, the Mera25 Parliamentary Group has tabled, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, a plea of non-constitutionality in Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 in the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Preparation of a Protocol for the Distribution of Property - Recommendation of the Property Right of the Metropolitan Pole of Greek - St. Cosmas and regulation of related issues". They have the right to speak, which is Mr Arsenis, the rival, which is Mr Brutsis from New Democracy, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or the Parliamentary Representatives and the Ministers responsible, each for five minutes of the hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u35	Madam President, I apologise. I would like to speak on a point of order. Before the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 takes the floor on this matter, I would like procedurally to speak on the request for unconstitutionality. Procedurally alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u37	Madam President, thank you very much for the opportunity. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, as the Rules of Procedure of the House are rightly provided for in Rule 100, it is possible for MEPs to submit proposals for unconstitutionalism either to individual Members or to parties. It is a top process whereby the possibility of making a pre-accession assessment for an article or for a law. That's all right, that's all. The experience of this House, Madam President, shows that the parties have respected this process over time, in the sense that, when such proposals of unconstitutionality are being made, they are being substantiated. This has been done by both the Change Movement and by SYRIZA and other parties of this House and in the past with the same seriousness as this article and the Rules of Parliament. This is the first time, Madam President, to allow me to tell you a proposal, this proposal from the Merra25 Party is unacceptable and insulting. It is unacceptable and insulting because there is a general document, without documentary, general and vague, to draw up an unconstitutional law for which it does not describe a single reason, nor a single excuse. To be essential, I propose that the objection of non-constitutionalism should not be debated on the part of Mera25, unless a text in particular is distributed, which includes, in particular, what Merra25 and its MPs should do in particular. What do you mean? It should be legally substantiated on which points it disagrees, so that we too can put ourselves on the ground. So our proposal, Madam President, is to place ourselves on unconstitutionalism, if and when it comes to finalised, substantiated, concrete proposal from PART25. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Colleague, But we must also listen to the contributors. Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Brutsi, I would like to correct you with all kindness. Just in the previous bill last week, Mr. Plearis, who also has legal status, but he was also the one to deal with our objections, gave us congratulations here in plenary - you were next to him - because we were the only ones to submit unconstitutional objections substantiated of these objections. So you and I were here, when Mr Ploris gave us congratulations on exactly what you said we were not doing today. I have to tell you, in answering the substance, that we are here to explain where the unconstitutionality lies. But if you insist, we shall now be presenting a statement to the Bureau of Parliament and to the Bureau of Parliament. We intend to do so in the next few minutes which will be given the floor here, with Mr Kriton Arsenis. If you insist, what we would notify you next seconds we give it to the House. You want it to go a little later? Let's go a little later. No problem. Whatever you want. It is, however, somewhat drawn to give up for what you have congratulated us on. Mr. Floris sat next to you last week. You have conquered SYRIZA in particular by saying "How dare you without documentation" and "what wonderfully substantiated by Mera25". I'm talking about restoring the truth, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u40	Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. All articles in the bill are in direct conflict with Articles 4, 17, 25, 106(1) and (2) of the Constitution. In particular, equality and general interest do not express concepts of opposing, but interrelated and equal in modern legal order. The public interest arises and operates as an element of the concept of equality. The notion of general interest operates as a conceptual and regulatory component of proportional or differentiating equality which requires the joint legislator or administration to have equal regulation of similar situations and the unequivocal regulation of disparate situations. Furthermore, Article 17(1) provides that the property is to be protected by the State. However, the rights resulting therefrom cannot be exercised at the expense of the general interest. Article 106(1) also provides that, in order to consolidate social peace and protect the general interest, the State is to plan and coordinate economic activity in the country, seeking to ensure the economic development of all sectors of the national economy. Although the concept of the public interest does not appear in this provision, Article 106 provides that the State is planning and coordinating economic activity in the country to consolidate social peace and protect the general interest. The second paragraph of that article puts another barrier to the private economic initiative, which cannot be developed at the expense of freedom and human dignity or to the detriment of the national economy. The public interest therefore exists as a concept even in actions coming from private individuals. Article 1: The contract has been drawn up by way of derogation from the intended notarial type - to point out here that the words ‘without derogation’ must be counted several dozen times - and by way of derogation - any other general special provision. Until the registration or registration of the Gender in the Official Journal of the Government, in which this Law is published, is authorised and is considered valid by way of derogation from any other provision of any transfer to the books of the competent mortgage office, the registration in the records of the competent ceremonies office, which is carried out or carried out for any previous converter or registrant. The legal result shall be retroactively obtained from the time of its issue or training, i.e. before the date of signature of the contract. Any refusal to registrate, register with mortgage guards or head of property offices means that under your law it is a violation of duty and will accept disciplinary penalties. In Article 2, in addition to the fact that 6.2 square kilometres are given - as much as all Gibraltar is - so much as the entire Greek public park - to a single businessman, which violates every sense of interest, demobilizing the property of the Greek people and destroying every concept of equality, manifestly violating the principle of proportionality, there is provision for further shielding and, indeed, a future shielding of the contract, namely the investor. While the terms may only be modified by written agreement, manifest misgivings of the contract ratified by Article 1, first Distribution Convention - Right of establishment may be corrected by a notarial instrument of correction between the parties, without requiring ratification by law and by way of derogation from any other general or special provision, no other document or certificate or certificate or certificate shall be attached. Also, with the publication of this publication, it ceases to be public property of what is held by the GOI and is derecognised by the Public Buildings Account by way of derogation. I now move on to Article 3. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to turn to a few points, Madam President, for a short time. The Transfer Agreement shall be drawn up by way of derogation from any other special and general provision and shall be subject to the type of private document and with the special diagram annexed to it shall be ratified by law and by diligence of the Hellenic Republic. The contribution of the property rights from the GOI to the Greek company from any tax, levy, remuneration or right in favour of the State, legal persons governed by public law, insurers, any third party, is exempted. The non-conformity of the mortgage guards is punished. Before the transfer of the shares, the buyer or guarantor can start - before the transfer! - among other things, a'sales center', a commercial space, i.e. a mall. However, the possibility is provided for only by the operator concerned. The rest of the citizens never have equal opportunities in Greek law and that is why the provisions of Articles 4, 17, 25 and 106(1) and (2) of the Constitution are violated. With regard to Article 5 - and I close - it is permitted to build fences to separate activities and functions even within the field by way of derogation from any other provision. Moreover, access to the areas or dwellings to be formed or to any other use chosen by the investor will not be free but controlled. It is also allowed to use 30% of the high buildings that will be built in Greek for the creation of tourist accommodation. Licences shall be compressed and the Central Board of Environmental Licensing shall be obliged to reply within 10 days, otherwise it shall be deemed consented. For any project located within the development areas and the park area there is no need for permission, but approval by the Office of the Hellenic Republic. The investor is given the option to issue authorisations for individual projects or modules. And I'm finishing up. For all construction work within the space of the metropolitan pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas a license is required. However, these permits are granted by the Office of the Hellenic Republic, as well as pre-consumers, and specific evidence may be specified by way of derogation and studies for the issue of building permits, specific control procedures, special procedures and conditions for reviewing and updating dossiers and building permits by way of derogation from the relevant provisions. Buildings and installations manufactured within the Greek can be demolished by way of derogation. Once again, there are 10 days, by way of derogation, for the various permits. Derogations may be granted by way of derogation and for the execution of constructions and installations situated within the building blocks of the development areas and the metropolitan park no authorisation is required. Finally, within the metropolitan pole of St. Kosmas, Greek, it is allowed to build fences for separating activities and functions - these are "gated cities", the fortified cities you want to create - even within the same plot by way of derogation of any other provision. And also, the fence is permitted by way of derogation and divisional permits and so on. The principle of proportionality and Article 25(2) of the Constitution, read in conjunction with Articles 4, 17(1) and 106(1) and (2) of the Constitution, shall be seriously violated. That is why we call for it to be judged unconstitutional, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u42	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has the floor now. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. I continue from where I stopped my position in the procedural speech I did just before. I said in particular, Mr Gregoriadis, a Parliamentary representative of Mera25, that such a very important opportunity given by the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Rule 100 must be provided when it is exploited either by parliamentarians or by parties to enjoy such respect both to Parliament and to the parties and to the Bureau of Parliament. In other words, there cannot be a party's position on the unconstitutional nature of a law in plenary - because here it is seen as unconstitutional the whole of the law, which was discussed in detail by the parliamentarians, by the ministers with their positions, by the parliamentary representatives - without any documentation at all. And we suddenly arrive after the speech I made in the procedural form, which I asked the President very kindly if you would be so kind as to give us your objections, now come and list a number of written arguments which - as I have been able to tell you - are, in general and effectively utopian, out of reality. What do you do and what do you do, gentlemen of Mera25, with the objection of unconstitutionality, if we assume that it would pass? To cancel the largest, most important, most comprehensive investment of the Greek state that will affect many years after the development of our national economy. It is an investment in emblematic and symbolic which I will say after the current position of SYRIZA - I expect to see how it will be placed on the general principle that it is placed positively - it is a national effort. You are actually coming to prove your obsessed attitude to anything that is about private initiative, investment in Greece, progress and job creation, attracting investment, increasing the GDP of the country and growth. It is your position that you did just before with this text more trade union than political and legal, as you should. That is how I understand it, Madam President, that this is a trade union position which is inextricably, vague and generally undeniable without presenting the evidence through which unconstitutionality will also prove to be unconstitutional. Nowhere has there been any evidence in the committees or in the plenary today that confirms what you have just mentioned. In fact, the Scientific Service of the Parliament, which is supposedly accepted by all of us to the greatest extent, and we all invoke it, nowhere says about an unconstitutional element. You have invoked articles of the Constitution by keeping the Constitution on a paper glue by recording and reading what the Constitution says. Reading the Constitution in the same articles as you refer to, for example, in Article 4: ‘Greeks are equal before the law’, where do you find that Greeks are not equal to the law with the specific bill in Article 4, which you said first - first? It is an example. The same is followed by the other constitutional articles you invoke. That is why we reject this proposal, Madam President, as a vague, general and more trade union and not a substantial proposal for unconstitutionalism for a critical bill that will affect jobs and the prospect of our national economy for the next few years. And one advice, in future, to be more careful when using such tools as the Rules of Procedure and not to insult the institutional procedures with such unacceptable manipulations that are only done for communication reasons and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u44	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u45	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Gregoriadis, your turn will be here. You're about to have the floor, so you can place yourself then. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is fine, Mr Brutsi, I will agree with you that the paper that has come to us and we have nothing to say so it does not give us the opportunity to prepare for the anti-constitutional application. However, we got past it, we went next door and we asked what "you guys mean. Help us." We have seen them and been informed about both 4, and 17, and about 25, and about 106 in two points. Look, the truth is this. We don't have party strangles or ideological complexes. We have often been in favour of objections of unconstitutionality even when they came from the SYRIZA side or the Communist Party or from Mera25. Today I do not think that this is such a day that we will be in agreement with it because it does not exist. And speaking of our legal staff, there is no such thing as formal and legal. One can say too much about this bill. One can say that investment in Greek is an investment that the investor does not put a single euro in his pocket. It's amazing, it's a world patent! We'll teach her tomorrow - tomorrow at the universities. That can be said by someone. He can say that investors are such that they invest money from others, from the Greek people. And that can be said. It can say that it is a subsidiary company, the HELLENIC GLOBAL, as our rapporteur, quite rightly said, has 36 000. And that can be said. He may say, and here is the nice thing and the Greek people see it, that the interior troika, the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement prove once again that they are baking and baking up for the conflict - they may have already found them - and they agree with it. That can be said. It can be said, Minister, that while you are talking about development in this bill, we are talking about a sale. One might say that you're talking about making use of the old airport, we're talking about handing over to the Memorandum lenders. What else can anyone say? It can be said that you are giving land and water to TIADED, where TIADED, superstition and where superstition, lenders. And he can say that. And one can say that with your choices and your agreements you are obeying the orders of lenders. These are the important things in this bill. One cannot, however, say that formal and legally, an objection of unconstitutionality can be found. After all, this wretched constitution that I hold in my hands, and I close, Madam President, we have made it a lace, we are over it. One has not respected it in the last ten years in the Greek Parliament when we have come to consider the constitutional memorandums signed for the PSI and all the others as constitutional. So what Constitution, unfortunately, are we talking about? I repeat and close with that, we are in favour of logic and not of party and ideological strangles. Where we consider that our logic is to support objections of unconstitutionality, we will do so. I don't think today is such a day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u48	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The parliamentary representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Brutsis, at the moment in the Council of State, there are three appeals pending for the works in Greek and specifically for the previous law, the law that you passed in relation to the works in Greek. This, in my opinion, clearly shows that our objections are not being met. Before we raise objections we have raised social groups, all those affected, the Greek people. It didn't come from the sky. That's the first. Secondly, I would like your attention because I will help you understand, Mr Brutsi, what you may not even want. Listen, Mr Brutsi, in our opinion, when the difference in treatment is imposed for reasons of public interest by deviating from the principle of equality, the resulting discrimination is a result of the legislature's subjective crises and not of those, as the judge should have. The specialization of the public interest is the result of the correlation of powers existing in society. The sovereign position among them remains between the political authority, your own Mr Brutsi, and your government, whose debt according to the Constitution is to determine the public interest according to the popular will that elected it. Our Constitution identifies Article 17(1) according to which, I read: "The property is our state', Mr Brutsis. However, the rights resulting therefrom cannot be exercised at the expense of the general interest. Also, in Article 106(1) of the Constitution, paragraph (a) according to which, I reread: ‘In order to consolidate social peace and protect the general interest, the State plans and coordinates economic activity in the country by seeking to ensure the economic development of all sectors of the national economy’. Although, Mr Brutsis, the concept of the public interest does not appear in this provision in Article 106, it is clearly defined, and I quote again: 'The State is planning and coordinating economic activity in the country to consolidate social peace and protect the general interest'. The second paragraph of the same article puts another barrier to the private economic initiative which, I read again from the Constitution: 'It is not possible to develop at the expense of freedom and human dignity or to the detriment of our national economy'. The public interest therefore exists as a concept even in actions that come from private individuals. Finally, and with this I will leave you, I must tell you that I am not personally surprised that you see nothing as complete as your resignation, I do not say it personally for you, unconstitutional either in this, or in the previous bill or in the previous bill. Why, let me say it - and I say it slightly joking - did not find the Samara Memorial unconstitutional, you did not find the SYRIZA Memorandum unconstitutional, you did not find any unconstitutional memorandum and 11 years later it has devastated our country. The country is a shadow of itself from the one it was a decade ago. And will you find the presents unconstitutional to Mr. Latsis and the "DEVELOPMENT" in Greek? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u50	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Madam President. If we consider that anti-linguistic is anti-grassroots, then in this sense we agree, because of course the provisions that they contain are at the expense of the rights of workers, the people and the youth, it exacerbates the position of the people's family, it is a burden on the environment. So, it's an anti-grass bill. But the civil constitution in words defends the rights of the people. In practice, what it supports is capitalist property. It's an urban constitution. From this point of view, it defends capitalist property, its needs, the interests of the ruling class, even when the Constitution itself is violated. Because, as a well-known penalist-constitutionalist said from the Step of the House when we were discussing their memorials and unconstitutionalism, the Constitution said, it is a text that is dynamic and adapts to every needs of the time. That is how he declared from the Step of the Parliament. And from this point of view, we have no illusions. The State is a state every time it serves the interests of each sovereign class. It's not a state for all the people. There is never such a state nor can there be such a state. That is why the state with its laws, with its mechanisms, protects the interests of capital and shields with the police, with the mechanisms of repression the power of each ruling class. This is the case, Madam President, for this application. We shall vote in favour of the logic that it is anti-grassroots.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Loverdos, because I do not see your parliamentary representative, would you like to take the floor? Here, you have the floor on behalf of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u53	I'm going to put in debts. Look, we have had a wide-ranging debate in the Standing Committee. At least, for our part, I, as rapporteur, could not see issues relating to constitutionality or not. There was, in fact, an issue in Article 5 on the fences of the draft law, but with Mr Tagaras' amendment, or with an addition - it was not an amendment - that the fences were temporary, if I understood correctly, which gives an explanation of practice of what the Minister told us to the Standing Committee, the matter is resolved. Therefore, issues of constitutionality cannot even be seen, as far as this draft law is concerned, have also referred to my speech in the view of the Scientific Office of the Parliament on Article 5. The Scientific Service of the Parliament has done a specific analysis because Article 5 does not seem to conflict with Article 24(1) of the Constitution. I pointed that out from my speech and that. I therefore see no issue on which I could rise in favour of the argument of unconstitutionality. Now, as far as the text of the proposal is concerned, there is one issue. Of course, the honourable Member has covered it with his speech and there is no question now. But, when we are called upon to place ourselves on constitutionality, the colleague who makes the request must have recorded in his application and in the articles of the Constitution, so that we can see where the problem exists. Not so much of the arguments, because you draw them up, when you speak, but what article do you think they are being violated, you have to say it, to prepare for the pact or the adversarial on it. So we have this issue here because the text has not recorded the articles, but my colleague said it in his position. However, this clarification does not give us any arguments in favour of unconstitutionalism and we are against it. When I heard my colleague - and I conclude with this, it is a political argument that I am interested in - to buy out what is going to happen, in his view, of what should be done on the Greek side of the six thousand acres, the impression that I have formed is that on the part of my colleague, Mr Arsenis, the picture of the Greek bureaucracy, about the Greek state, about the situation we have in our country today is in a way so retraining that there is an ideal picture for another country, for a model country on the planet. And it reminds me, since the speech comes from the left, a phrase that Lenin is alleged to have said - I don't know if that's the case - that when we get to communism, the role of Prime Minister or Head of State may also be played by a housewife. There won't be any special abilities, since everything will be perfect. I want to tell him that, unfortunately, things are not perfect in our country. That's why there's need for specific process acceleration arrangements, which can, if you look at things from the peace of perfection, don't look good to you right, but if you see things from the standpoint of dealing with bureaucracy, the difficulties a country has - documented these difficulties - you have to do something to deal with them. Therefore, I am neither giving up nor advising. I don't have that possibility, nor do I have the mood. But when we are so deductive, do not seek solutions in the Constitution that it cannot give us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Ragus, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is that I will not support anything new, if I say something - and I think it is well-known - that there is another question of disagreement, the policy that may exist on a matter or on a bill and another issue whether or not there is a problem of constitutionality. We were not going to say that we were voting in principle on this bill if we thought there was an issue of unconstitutionality. Indeed, as Mrs Loverdes said, if there was a problem with Article 5, on the basis of the first look made by our rapporteur, Mrs Perkas, it shows that she is being cured to some extent. I say this on a first reservation, because we also need this legislative improvement of decoding, in order to be 100% sure. It shows in the first instance to heal the problem presented by Article 5. So for us there is no question of unconstitutionality. And I will end with just one political remark on which is the position of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative. I may not understand it, but as formulated, it has led me to what I will just say. No one's above the Constitution. And obviously, no investment, however large it is, even if it was the world's largest investment, if it was influencing the Constitution, could only be accepted if it complied with the Constitution. I say this, because many times there is this debate in our country on excessive bureaucracy that prevents investment and prevents development, which, if decoded, one will understand that there is actually no bureaucracy, there is a question of keeping specific articles in the Constitution, whether to protect the environment or to protect archaeological sites, and so on. We therefore consider that there is no question of unconstitutionality. On other political issues, as Mrs Perka said, we are continuing in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u56	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Listening to the parliamentary representatives and the rapporteurs from the different parties, I understand that Merra25 has been isolated. Even the JRC, which will vote in favour of the 'objection' of unconstitutionalism, will come back, because there is an emphasis here, a sample of clandestineness - has, for other reasons, done so, not substance. The proposal is a sample and proof once again of handshake, amateur, superficial and work-out of the parliamentary process for the creation, as the party in question does, of fireworks and supposedly temporary impressions. Even in the title of the topic: 'An objection of unconstitutionality'. There is a swamp because there were no and there are no writings - you have supported it orally - specific objections to unconstitutionality. There is a lack of care, because you have read us fragmentary provisions of the Constitution, without any connection to the subject. You took pieces of the Constitution - and other articles in relation to what you had leaked before, 24, 25 - then you read us distractively how many times you detect the condition by way of derogation, again without any connection to the subject, and finally you told us that the investor is one, which is known, at least since 2016, when the stock sale contract was ratified with Law 4422/2016. The area distributed under the contract is public property, my colleague. It is available to serve the general interest, in that the development of the planned investment will create jobs, contribute to the development of the national economy and a part of it is made available to the public for sport and recreation. Any exceptions introduced in the terms of the ratified contract are legitimate, imposed in fact on account of the specific nature of the case, but also on account of the fact that distribution takes place between two public legal persons, i.e. the public authorities and the GOI. Finally, the Scientific Committee of Parliament itself - I will repeat arguments I have heard from several parliamentary parties - does not identify any problem of unconstitutionality in the bill. Not only is there no question of unconstitutionalism, but it is welcomed and approved by the bill, which - emphasised on page 15 - is in line with Article 106, paragraph 1 of the Constitution. There is, in fact, a reference to page 16 for Article 24 of the Constitution. As explicitly stressed by this draft law, the strategic objective of becoming the metropolitan pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas a metropolitan pole of international radiation, aimed at highlighting the capital in an important centre of economic, environmental and innovative development and strengthening Athens as a tourist destination, business centre and recreation area in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean. This is because public property is to be exploited in compliance with all the basic principles of urban and environmental planning. Consequently, this convention serves multiple objectives under the Constitution: the creation and maintenance of a metropolitan park for green and recreational purposes, maintenance and promotion of cultural heritage, and lasting improvement of living conditions for all residents of the Athens metropolitan complex. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Stavoura, I am very sympathetic to you, you are being exposed as Greek Minister of Finance, because you seem to ignore the legislative improvements you brought to the House five minutes ago. The fifth of the legislative improvements, in paragraph 5 of Article 5A, in paragraph 3 of the fifth Article of the same draft after the word ‘manufacture’, is added before the word ‘fringing’. Congratulations, Mr. Stakoura. You have just accepted one of the four or five objections of unconstitutionalism, except that you did not have the courage and courage to do so - as should - honest and nice, withdrawing the article, but you hid behind a legal improvement. I don't know where you're really going with this, but we're not going to go crazy in this Chamber. If they are completely unfounded, if we are all communists, utopianists and generally living in our own environment, then why did you consider it necessary to make this legislative improvement? That is what I have to say, Madam President. When we talk about anti-constitutional objections, it is important not to touch on Mr Varoufakis's mouth every time and say that he destroyed Greece, because I must recall once again that from a bad terminology of fate - not that he did a terrible Solomonica, Mr Varoufakis - unfortunately for all of you right, left-wing and centre-right communists, he received public funds with a little less than what he delivered six months later and also received a national debt a little higher than what he delivered six months later. Also, for the history and because it is recorded in the Minutes, Mr Varoufakis was the Minister of the National Economy, no Greeks were released from the public sector, no pensions or salaries were reduced. We know how much that hurts you, so you throw the ball in the platform, dear Minister. Hello.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the request for non-constitutionality from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) of the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) of the European Parliament) of the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) of the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) of the European Parliament (Christian Democrats). On the basis of the principle of declared Mr. Tagaras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. I must announce some legislative improvements to the bill, but also explain the issues raised in two amendments tabled, 806 and 807. First of all, as far as the issue raised by my colleagues in the committee is concerned, I said that what is needed to clarify the problem of fences will bring about improvement in the legislation. Therefore, on this basis, in paragraph 4 of Article 5A, paragraph 3 of the fifth article of the draft law, the words ‘Poland – Saint Kosmas’ are replaced by ‘park and development zones’. In Article 5A(4), paragraph 3 of Article 5 of the draft law, the words ‘by way of derogation from any other provision’ shall be deleted. In domestic case A of the internal paragraph 5 of Article 5A, paragraph 3 of the fifth of the draft law after the word ‘manufacture’, the word ‘provisional’ is added. In domestic case A of the internal paragraph 5 of Article 5A, paragraph 3 of the fifth of the draft law after the word ‘fringing’ and before the word ‘peripheral’ is added ‘security’. Also, in domestic case C of internal paragraph 5 of Article 5A(3) of the fifth draft law, a new second subparagraph is added, which reads: ‘In the completion of separate sections of the works, the corresponding fences certified by the Office of Greece shall be removed.’ These remarks make it clear that we are talking about temporary fences, both for safety reasons and under no circumstances about permanent fences which cause a problem for the work, but also for the beach. As far as Amendment 806 is concerned, we are actually going to resolve a problem which has taken place over time, which is causing delays in dealing with dangerously prepared buildings, where there is a co-responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Culture. To date, the committees of the different ministries were: The Committee of Article 7 of Presidential Decree 13 of 1929; the Committee of Engineering - the second was the Board of Architecture and the third was the responsible department of the Ministry of Culture, which was at risk for crisis issues. This caused many delays in risk and we have experienced many of them recently. For this reason, and in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, we have said to make a special committee which manages the issues of dangerously prepared buildings, the Special Committee on prepared buildings, a seven-member committee which, in very short time and representative representation, will be able to take decisions, if there are grounds for risk either of part or of the entire building, with all the relevant interventions to ensure sensitive or special features, part or whole of the place. In this case, I would like to say, by taking the letters from the south Aegean regional director, but also from the Syros engineers' association and by recognising the specificity of 'insularity', that we agree and add to the amendment the case to which I shall refer right now. Exceptionally for reasons of "insularity" we add to the last paragraph "multiple committees may be set up beyond this decentralised", respecting and in essence accepting the Southern Aegean Regional Document for a Committee based in Mytilini, a committee based in Rhodes and a committee based in Syros. The second amendment, 807, comes to give clarification but also extensions due to COVID and particular circumstances in plans that are evolving to complete. The document refers to the electronic identity for supplements and corrections as it evolves. The other refers to the extension of the general urban planning plans and the plans for the Open City Settlement Organisation, the OPCWAs, which are in the process of being completed. In order not to change these designs from the outset we give the opportunity to complete the plans that are toward the end. We transfer the date which expired on 3 March, until 31 December 2022. We therefore give the opportunity to complete these plans. Also, with regard to the Electric Vehicle Loading Plans, the VHS, which, because of a short time and because of COVID, have not been completed, we are able to complete it to the municipalities until 30 June and with the possibility of further extension if conditions are still difficult. Furthermore, as regards the validity of the certificates - and I refer to the cases of real estate transfers - we are extending the validity of the certificate until 30 June 2021 in cases where it is necessary, without going through the electronic identity of the procedure, so that we can help and facilitate sales and transfers and do not involve any involvement, at the same time allowing them to be subjected after 1 February, but only until 30 June 2021. As regards the suspension of the obligation to relocate several liquid-fuel stations, etc., extensions have been made. Due to circumstances and specialities, we are giving an extension until 31 December 2022. This was because of a change of use in areas where such facilities were legally operated and still remain in operation. We are also speeding up the process of drawing up local urban plans. You know it's a great ambitious move in progress, it's true, the bet will be won in practice together - to define land uses and class in space with local town plans over 70% of the land. In this respect, because the funding is from the Recovery Fund and we safely want to absorb resources and complete the plans, it is possible to add technical support to the work of the coordinator, as envisaged, to speed up these processes. We also know that there have been councils that have been held from the past, councils that have been created and then. In order to be able without a lot of bureaucratic processes to unify the same possibilities, we anticipate the abolition of the Metropolitan Planning Council by transferring all its responsibilities to the Central Council for Urban Affairs and Disputes. We also provide for the possibility of setting up the JRC. It is a new institution: the Central Council of Spatial Affairs and Disputes. We expect it to be done before the National Spatial Planning Council is set up, because due to the large number of Council formations and the long delays it poses a problem in other issues that need to go through the KISYTHA. So, until the National Spatial Planning Council is set up, the KISYTHA can work without both representatives of the National Spatial Planning Council and, of course, when it is completed, they will also participate. These are the amendments which I would like to take into account, which relate to prolongations due to short-term circumstances, to issues relating to the lifting of risk and speed in the assessment of issues such as those which are the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. If there is any other question, I would like to give you some clarification. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to give the floor to the Deputy Minister, Mr Auganos, to put him on his amendment. Mr. Stavura, too. At the end of the day there will be questions, if only by parliamentary representatives. You should know that. That's the Rules of Procedure. I cannot do anything else unless it is not the parliamentary representative in the Chamber and then the rapporteur can speak. Mr. Ignace, we're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much. I would like to talk about the amendment we tabled in this bill on'sport law enclosures and statutory provisions'. I would like to inform the House that this provision is coming to strengthen, rather than differentiate or change, the existing institutional framework with regard to obstacles to sport law. In other words, it responds to those who try to play with the interpretation of the laws. Under Article 1 of Law 4726/2020, we have updated the provisions of Article 3 of Law 2725/1999 on registration stops and restrictions. We had discussed this in detail in this House last September. This provision essentially states that the provisions of Law 4726/2020 shall take precedence over any provision of a regulation of a sports federation, association or association. We say, then, that the law outweighs a rule. I repeat we don't change anything. We remain firm in our position. We continue our sport reform unequivocally and strengthen the existing institutional framework in order to avoid misinterpretations of the law. We are coming to anticipate any issues that may arise in the event that a sporting body has not been able to harmonise the provisions of its statute with the provisions of the current legal framework. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that, in the midst of the pandemic, many sportsmen have moved forward in harmonising their statutes and we fully understand that. Also, with this provision we reiterate the provisions of Article 25 of the draft law of our Ministry for which the consultation procedure has been completed and the next time it comes to Parliament for discussion. That article provides that, until 30-6-2022, sports clubs, sports associations and sports federations are required to amend their statutes with a view to adapting them to Articles 3, 5, 14, 22 and 24 of Law 2725/1999, as amended by Law 4726/2020. It shall continue this Article: ‘If the statutes are adjusted in accordance with this, the provisions of the first subparagraph shall apply to any other statutes’. So since the draft law has not yet come for a vote in Parliament and since the archaeology is under way, we are bringing this amendment. It is therefore clear that Article 3 of Law No.2725/1999, as amended by Law No.4726/2020, which deals with obstacles to the registration of a member of a sports club or a member of the management bodies of the association or association of federation prevails from 18 September 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u65	I would like the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u66	Madam President, I too, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u67	Wait a minute, let's get this over with the ministers and then. Come on, Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u68	I wanted to place myself on the amendment number 805/127. Because I've seen the president of the JRC Parliamentary Group here, I have no problem making my position later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Colleague, you're asking your question to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u70	This amendment tabled today by Mr Augias is an amendment which does not only induce our intelligence, but also because it has been accompanied by the presentation which we have just followed, I think goes beyond every limit. How's Mr. Aygeakis? He brings an amendment to amend the law which he himself proposed and voted on by the government majority, by the majority of the House, because he simply wants to make an raw intervention in the elections to enable him to be a candidate and to be elected by Mr Zorgakis. Mr Aygeakis, you should be able to bring an amendment which you say is in charge of the NGO. It is only possible for anyone who starts the last name to 'Z' and is a New Democracy MEP despite this really politically disgusting text - the text as a text has no problem - with this 'photographic' move for your chosen one. That's where it's all over. What a good law, what a fairness in the country! You want to take Zagorkis to the head that Mr Mitsotakis himself announced about this candidacy and you are now coming to amend the law so that you can allow it. Honestly, there is a time when one feels like there's no point in looking for traits, no speech patterns, nothing. All we have to do, Mr Ausgeakis, is deliver you to the citizens' judgement and, above all, to the sports players in the country. Write a "black" page in Greek sport with what you do today. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, too. Mr Hetas has the floor, Mr Katrinis, and then the President of the JRC will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u72	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u73	You cannot take the floor, Mr Colleague, you know that. You're not a parliamentarian. What am I supposed to do? That's the law. Excuse me, the Rules of Procedure say so. Mr. Heta, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u74	Madam President, you said by mistake 'that's what the law says'. And the law says it, there's no problem, we're changing the law. There's no problem! I'm staying in this, too. I, Madam President, and Mr Aygeakis, will not go into the substance of the matter because you have become the best photographers here. Such "photographic" devices have not been made before. Photo, normally. We will not get into the case on the substance if it relates to Zorgoki or to anyone. Because you know soccer is a nice sport, Mr. Aggenakis, but it is better not to get into trouble with it, because it says that "when buffaloes fight, the frogs pay her." Furthermore, we will not talk about the elections. But the signal we have to give the Greek people today, to the Greek women and the Greeks who are watching is that "you have no luck finding your right when as ordinary citizens you claim a request based on the law". Why? Because the laws exist not to be observed, but the laws exist to change according to will. You are a government - and in particular you, Mr Augias, with what you are bringing today - that you are changing the law that you have brought and doing something else because you are always legislating on the basis of your party interests and personal acquaintances. That's scandalous really. Again, it's not about the particular person you want to free and dismiss. It's not my essence right now, Zormokis. Could be someone else in his place. But you do, and if anything else is disturbing, even scandalous. You say, "You say, "You talk about an OPAP agency at the end." Of course! "What makes you young, youthful in tiles?". But I say again that this is not a personal matter. It is a sign of the rotten system, how a government operates that legislates according to will. What suits us, what suits us, we write in the oldest of our shoes any laws we change to make our own piece. It's really parliamentary fortuitous. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Katrin, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. We will not talk about the substance of the provision, because in any case we had voted against this particular article of the bill when it had come to this Chamber. I would like to say, however, to those who are ministering to parliament in this House that it was an impression, Madam President, that last week we had a bill from Mr Augias without amendment. Every 15 days, in unrelated bills, Mr. Augias brings an amendment that is accidentally related to his agony and his only concern, the elections, the antiquities of sports federations. Now the sporting course, on the other hand, that there is an unprecedented stress of the Minister, the government to control anything that is in the electoral process with a great deal of heat in the field of sport. And Mr Augias takes care of every fifteen, twenty days to bring us an amendment. In fact, it today brings an amendment with retroactive effect as from 1 September 2020, not to mention any decision he seems to want to start by means of an election process. Madam President, I think it is a question of the government. It is not possible for an entire Ministry in such a sensitive sector to be exhausted only in electoral "cooking" amendments, in unconnected bills trying to cut off and write the results on the basis of the choices made by Mr Aygeakis, his extradition or Maximos. So that's what you have to stop. It's convicted. We also disagree with the substance, but also with the way in which Mr Argeakis systematically chooses to bring together issues that concern only this agony. We denounce it and believe that the whole world of sport is now aware of being a ministry whose only interest is in controlling the elections of clubs and federations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u78	Madam President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u79	Yes, Mr. Karathanasopus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u80	Madam President, you said about questions. The three previous parliamentarians did not ask any questions at all. They were put on the basis of an amendment which is 'photographies', of course. Thank you so much! However, the procedure cannot be interrupted to place on the amendments because we will never finish. Parliamentary representatives have the possibility, when they speak, of putting themselves on the amendments, and the rapporteurs also have their second language. That's not questions. So don't baptize the meat fish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Comrade, you're right. But we're done. He is the last parliamentary representative and we are closing the procedure, because as I said before, the President of the Communist Party of Greece has been waiting for some time. Come on, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Madam President. The President of the Communist Party of Greece respects him unrestrictedly, those who account for themselves as left-wing people and free. That is why I will be quick, Mr Secretary. I'll ask questions. Mr Aygeakis, do you think that an amendment concerning only Mr Zorgokis can he, if your plans are successful and he becomes President of the Greek Football Federation, have his own agency of the OPAP at the same time? You personally, Mr. Ausgeakis, are you okay with your conscience? Let me say otherwise: do you like the President of our Hellenic Football Federation having his own propository? Is that all right? Is that a nice thing? Finally, the Statutes of the NCA provide for non-conformity on ethical grounds. Don't you as Minister give one for these moral reasons? Are you completely ignored? Don't you care at all if there are moral reasons? Is the president of the EMP to have a foreman? Also, the statutes of the NCA for your bad fortune - I mean the government, not personally - have been approved by a court of peace, such as all the statutes. Do you know that it is somehow a document that also has legal effect? And most importantly, Mr. Ausgeakis, what do you think of as the Minister of Sports? That people who are involved in sports and their federations are irresponsible and need the state hand, the state of the Communists, why do I think you're neoliberal, to enter and run the test in the federations? If you'd like me to answer one of these. Not to mention what the eighth or ninth is completely irrelevant, but the first with retroactive power, if I am not mistaken, is a photographic amendment you bring. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u83	Minister, you only have the floor for two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u84	I shall try to respond to the two minutes you give me, first of all in response to colleagues and not in conspiracy. And I could argue, because you could well be conspiracy scholars if I reminded of the positions of the parties that have now taken the floor, at the start of this sport reform. Do you remember what you were saying about the Sports Club Register? Do you remember what you said? Do you know what's going on today? Do you remember what you were saying when we started bringing alternative ways of holding elections to federations and unions and I am referring to the digital vote through the ‘ZEEA’ system? Do you remember what you were saying? Until we have a server in the ministry, you say and we'll do whatever we want and we'll tease and we'll do and show. You are really - and I say this with absolute honesty - tragic hours -. Really, you're crossing the line. No more criticism, I get it. Another point is why you disagree with a provision, with a process, with a reform, I understand it and I respect it. But conspiracys, things, provisions that Aygeakis does and shows, without of course having an argument and without having been confirmed at all? Also, I remember when you said we were making the register to have it in his drawer Augeakis making elections during the beam. And when we presented it here in the House about starting up in a special digital place where each one of you, each of us, each of our family, every sports-related person, can be informed at any time and at any time, on time, of which unions are legal or not, which one gets recognition, for everything, then you have silenced. An apologies you did not say. And we're going to today's. You said "photographic" device. Can you please tell me what he says about VDU? The law - shame is ignored. And it is a pity, because you are parliamentarians. You should know before you speak. It shall be adopted as from 18 September 2020, FEC181, n.4726. Here it is, at your disposal, that I will present it and share it with my colleagues to inform them of the position we took at the time when we voted on it. In the order on which we repeat and strengthen, we do not change anything. So I say to you that this provision is not a photo. It's clear. So I say to my colleague and say to him that it is all about the candidates in the federations, associations and unions. And one more thing that also escapes you and it's really funny because you forgot or weren't informed. Today at noon, at 12 noon, the deadline for objections to nominations in the EVO was extended. There was nothing, but no objection from what I know about Mr Zorgoki's nomination. So, what are you cut? What's this hypocrisy in here? And one more thing and I'm closing, Madam President. You know - I imagine not because at that time you would speak less, because you are being exposed - that elections were held in five federations: fencing, cycling, quintalus, III MEDA and everything was done with absolute accuracy, with absolute transparency, with absolute democracy. Everyone happily had a good reason to say on the subject of the procedure and, in particular, on transparency and democracy, which you are ignorant of, in other words, they have the right to vote on legal and active unions. Are you against this process? Are you against legality? Are you against transparency? Are you against the democratic process?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u85	Minister, please, please, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u86	I shall conclude, Madam President. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is good for you to be informed before you are involved in sport. I am at your disposal and I and my colleagues at all times and at all times to give you whatever information you want so that you and the party you represent are not personally exposed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. The President of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mr Koutsoubas, has the floor now. Mr. Kutsuba, I apologize for the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u88	The problem, Madam President, is not the delay so much, but what Parliament is doing. First of all, the Parliamentary Representatives do not understand what it means when the Bureau gives them the floor to ask clarifications and make statements, normal speeches. Above all, there is, of course, the government, the State Secretary, who does not understand that he cannot bring such serious issues as sport in an unrelated bill. That is why the Greek youth and the Greek people, and of course the people who are particularly concerned with sport and who give their sweat, their blood now, to make this sport upright, and to applaud everyone in here when we have won victories when we have successes. But that's not the point. The big issue today is another, as there are many other issues, which I shall try on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece to raise. When we talk about the course of investment in Greek, we are actually talking about the same nature of development that you and previous governments have been promoting all the previous period, all the previous years. In fact, however, it is an opportunity to talk about who eventually wins and who loses in these capitalist investments, draw conclusions from everyone and all. What's going on in the Greek? It is planned to make a huge investment in tourist capital with hotels, casinos and an entire closed city with very high-cost housing. This was from the outset and continues to be the core of the investment project, the tourist capital for this region today. The crocodile tears of SYRIZA, who is trying to convince that the Greek's existing development plan is supposedly day by night with the previous plan, no one is convinced. That is why you are voting together with the New Democracy. We as a Communist Party of Greece had warned since then that the development of the region, based on the profits of the great capital, has been depriving the region and Athens, the Attica holker as a whole of the last large free breathing spaces. Do you now change New Democracy something? No way. You are simply more sincere when you are now clearly telling us that you will not be content with the huge price of using the facilities, the exclusive use of the large capital of the whole "bile", already established by SYRIZA to protect the rich visitors. You are honest even in the last measure that you have established and says that only the residents of these municipalities can use the beaches. No one, of course, had no delusional. The workers knew and know that the super-pollutant tourist facilities wouldn't be for them. They know that millionaires will be on the Athenian Riviera. You now make it clear, since you also put natural walls so that there is not even the possibility that your high guests will be in touch with the knit of Athenians who will naturally not be able to approach the place. Why does it go so far as to the Greek? The design of both yours and the previous governments mentions Athens as a luxury tourist destination for the whole year, for fifty million tourists annually in the coming years, as you say. Really, how is that going to happen? The design of urban regeneration in the center of Athens, the so-called "great walk" on the one hand and the fast tourist regeneration on the coastal front of Attica on the other hand, are tools to achieve this objective. The investment in Greek, "Asteras", in the Faliikos Delta, the renovation in the center of Athens are components of capital planning and tourism in Athens. This is why you and SYRIZA before you combined the development plan that transforms the Attica coastal zone and the center of Athens into hotel yards, depriving the last available places of the millions of Athenians to meet their basic modern needs. That is why you also use the pandemic to change the structure of the focus and adapt it to the service of your planning for the next day of the economy. It is therefore naive to believe that it can implement this project without moving on to such "fillet" projects for large capital. Athens as a tourist destination requires both the Greek and the "big walk", but it requires that the city be redesigned, not for the interests of its residents, but for it to become a city for visitors - customers of the great tourist capital. You will ask us very well: 'But will the unemployed not find jobs? Do you not want investments to be made? So you're telling us. "Don't you see that only if big companies make enough profits will the wages of the workers improve somehow?" Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot make fun of workers and especially workers in the tourism sector, with this funny argument, because workers in tourism know that the performance of the tourism sector, in the decades past, did not lead to their own prosperity. Hotel staff wages remain hunger wages, employment relationships are bad, with over-documented work. Labour security is unrealistic, since every year as soon as it is undeclared for six, seven months, they are again in the insecurity of unemployment. And I only mention some of the most characteristic examples. You see, the profitability of capital demands increasing exploitation of workers and this law of capitalism you cannot make us forget about it. After all, the memorial commitments of SYRIZA and now, the last act of drama, the new labour law you are preparing, give more and more tools to the groups, the big capital to increase the exploitation of workers. So you're not fooling anyone. Your investments do not bring prosperity to the people. Your own logic that investments bring jobs, in simple words it tells the employee "if you want a job, you will do as you like it, as investors like it." In the system you worship, you see, the source of evil is that capitalists have the monopoly of means of production. Finally, it is almost funny to tell us about the need for the economy to be green and at the same time to promote such an investment in Greek. You're confusing us. How green exactly is the economy, when wind generators chime the mountains and the beaches and the last large free green space in Athens will he be drowned by huge hotel facilities and casinos in Greek? The investment you want to make in Greek has all the features of the development that you and the previous ones, land and water, that is to say, in the large groups, assigning the use of every free space, worsening the lives of the people's strata of Attica, depriving them of the beaches and free spaces and ensuring cheap labour, with the sole aim of making billions of profits. We call on the people of the region, as a whole, to fight this planning here, especially for the whole coastal front from Scaramaga to Sounio. This includes the sale of the area and the promotion of the development investment in the Greek area, which will have a strong negative impact on the working people's families throughout the Lecanopdi. At the opposite, there is the proposal of the JRC, on another development path, which includes the socialization of the land, all the concentrated means of production, the central scientific design of the economy and services, based on modern folk needs. This development path is the only one that can ensure for all workers the right to full, stable work, with quality free time, the right to education, sport and cultural activity, the right to large open green areas with recreational facilities, the right to safe quality people's housing, the possibility of free fast safe transport. In this direction we organise our struggle and we demand that we do not develop a business activity throughout the area of the Greek - beach, former airport, former US base. By its sole responsibility, the State should assume the construction, management and maintenance costs of a metropolitan park open to the people, with all the required infrastructure. To develop people's sport and cultural activities. Ensure easy access of the Attica people, with cheap and fast transportation. Ladies and gentlemen, this policy that you are pursuing with the investment in Greek is the same and irreparable health sector as in other sectors. We hear you say that the health system is under pressure, but we are still in a position to deal with the situation. You talk like you don't have any consciousness of the situation. For simple pressure on the public health system, we could talk two months ago. Now we're not just talking about pressure, about collapse of public hospitals, especially in Attica. The dozens of intubated people left out of the ICU, until they empty a bed, are they just pressure? The hundreds of imports into public hospitals every day are simple pressure? Not to talk about the thousands of patients, with other serious illnesses, who can't go through public hospitals. The images of the painted ambulances at the entrance of "Evangelism", the largest hospital, the day before yesterday in the newspaper, are shocking. And you are still talking about pressure, which you say, when we get to the milestone, that all citizens over 60 years of age have been vaccinated, at least with the first dose and all citizens with underlying illnesses at the end of April, it will be considerably reduced. So, what are you telling us? That this is going to continue for another month? Could you tell us what will follow the collapse? Dying sick helpless people in their homes? We have in mind the letter from the director of pathology at the hospital "Pamakaristos" to the commander of the hospital entitled "We are unable to treat the number of hospitals - over eighty - by specialists, six in total, a member of a vulnerable group and an advisor". I give it to you all for the Minutes of this House. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So that's what you call it pressure? Do you hear what you're saying? Or do you think that by enlisting two hundred private doctors, you can deceive patients, deal with the thousands of shortages that exist in doctors and nurses in public hospitals? Is it possible to order two hundred doctors to solve the huge problems, with patient waiting lists in order to get their lives or to move patients and health from hospital to city? Could he be faced with another parallel pandemic, which is in progress for one year involving the exclusion of other patients, with other very heavy illnesses from surgery, treatments, various diagnostic tests? Do you want an example? Many know that cerebrovascular events are the second cause of death over the age of 60, the first in the event of disability of the population. Timely medical intervention, thrombolysis, is essential. The “Red” has one of the best neurological units in place of thrombolysis. The “Red”, then, which was inaugurating for the entire first Health Region, is now off-catching. Do you know what this means about such incidents? So why don't you insist on Metropolitan, which advertises that it has a specialised Increased Patient Unit for thrombolysis? At the same time as public health units are unable to meet the enormous needs of patients, the government provides immunity to health business groups, so that they continue to gain unconsciously in the midst of a pandemic. And that's not all that's done, but you're subsidising them on top for those patients who want to hospitalize. The urgency right now is to save people's lives. In order to do this, all available hospital beds, all ICUs, together with their staff, must be diagnosed at the moment. And these exist and are in the large private hospitals, which you refuse to check. So today, the necessary and realistic, precisely to save human lives, is the immediate order, without compensation, of all hospitals and diagnostic centres in the private sector, to add ready, critical infrastructure and experienced staff to care for COVID and non-COVID patients. It is, at the same time, the immediate and unconditional recruitment of all qualified doctors and doctors to start specialisation. And leave the known tricks. The Deputy Minister of Health said in his interview yesterday that there are no pneumonologists on the subsidiary list. But, if you don't know, we're telling you, for your information, that for a pulmonary post called for "Sisminoglio", there are thirty-six candidates and twenty-six pulmonary posts in "Salvation" there are eighty pulmonary candidacies. Why don't you hire them? Furthermore, it is necessary to integrate all self-employed into a state plan to enhance primary care for all patients. And what you're saying to justify your refusal to proceed to a requisition, that if you were to say from April - last year - you were to order, now you wouldn't have any money, tell SYRIZA better, not us. Because Mr. Tsipras of SYRIZA is the one who has taken out the invoices, he has put down the computers to calculate the cost of compensation for the clinicians, not to mention any loss of any euros. We when we talk about a requisition, we talk about a real requisition and without compensation. Mercy! So much has been gained by the large private groups and within the pandemic. There is nothing wrong with them missing any euros. You announced the granting of a free test per citizen per week, which is not exactly free of charge, since it is foreseen that they will also pay a price for carrying it out. Instead of recruiting doctors, nurses in health centers, regional doctors, mobile health units to perform the tests, but also to record the result, to give instructions depending on the outcome, you throw the "black" back to the people and its infamous individual responsibility. No accident, since you've legally thrown the "ball" of some of the vaccinations in the pharmacy. But who's going to take the story? Who will deal with any side effects? Who will monitor the vaccinated for any problems that will occur? Since when do these belong to the scientific object of the pharmacists? With all this, not only are you not facing fear, the mistrust of part of our people with vaccines, but with your policy, with your own measures, which result from this policy, you are reproducing it and you are constantly expanding it. We're talking about the deposition of the notorious "personal responsibility", which you've done since last year and here we are. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, is causing when he says that within the pandemic the stereotype of a civil servant was shattered, speaking of doctors, nurses, teachers and even security bodies. First of all, take the Security Body out, because everyone knows that even in these circumstances you have exploited them, you have used them, despite the great problems that many of them face, in order to impose the police rule, in order to enforce your policy, which ultimately affects their own families. But you didn't get past it. The people, the youth, the mass movement answered you. And he'll do the same at any time raise a hand on him. They will do the same at some point, when the conditions come, and the police themselves, when they realize that their interests are to join the people, their youth, because they themselves are children of the people - most of them - and that they have no interest in hitting their children, their fathers and their mothers, their grandparents and their grandmothers. Let me go back to what I was saying. Tell us, really, which nurse can be lazy when, not now, but in normal circumstances on his shift, he has a responsibility for over thirty and forty patients? What hospital doctor can be lazy when in every newspaper he has to deal with dozens of incidents? It also causes the Prime Minister when he says that the stereotype of the private sector is allegedly dispersed only because some have donated to the National Health System. "Stage in the ocean" of their profits is these donations. I mean, don't forget. Besides, no one loses that and you know it. The opposite is true. All of these are many benefiting from your policy. Don't try to reverse reality. For if a myth really collapsed into the pandemic, this is the myth of the harmonious coexistence of the public with the private sector. It's the coexistence that won and closed public hospitals and health centers. He left them without personnel, launched private health costs for the people's family, created mathematics in private health. And this coexistence you all served. And New Democracy and PASOK - Change Movement, and SYRIZA of course. In these circumstances, then, we stand alongside the people who are mobilising - and well doing - to protect their children's health and health in order to protect their rights against repression, authoritarianism, which your government is escalating. And now let the tears "where have you seen the escalation?" Only the laws you've been through lately are revealing. So this people must not make a moratorium on this government, as SYRIZA dares to call it, because otherwise all it will succeed will be to get valuable time for the government and the big capital to move into a new attack on people's rights. What SYRIZA says is not enough for the government not to bring three - four bills now to stop the people fighting, to mobilize. Because even if the government freezes its bills, the people will continue to suffer, because there are plenty of laws to be abolished here and now. And these anti-grass laws must constantly have them in their sights the working people's movement. SYRIZA will do well not to speak on behalf of the people and their movement, which gives great day-to-day battle to stand up, to come out strong, healthy of this adventure. Mr. Tsipras would do well to talk about his party and his executives. Let them sign a moratorium with Mr. Mitsotakis. After all, they are on the same bank. Not only when it was in the government and they had forgotten the people at the corner and at the corner, with the memorials and the various anti-grassroots measures, but also today, as they restored to their programme. Just now, it is also making use of the power of populism to speak as an Opposition, saying the various well-known words of the air, of what has been used to us for many years now. After all, SYRIZA is in a permanent moratorium with the Government of New Democracy. Let go of the big and the chicken fights. From the "we'll be accounted for after" you said in the first phase of the pandemic, it went to proposals for joint acceptance of the Minister of Health and put it on. Any more creative suggestions you want? If all this is not a truce, even tolerance, I would say, in the policy of the Government of New Democracy, then what is it? In fact, both of you, gentlemen of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, putting false dividing lines between you, just to confuse the world, that is, trying to bring the great concept of progress to your own measures. Don't get tired. We all now understand how progress is to improve the working people in their lives. Progress is that our children live better than previous generations. It is progressing that the working people can have a stable job, with human working conditions, a good wage, a high level of health and education services. Progress is to fight against all your reactionary, anti-government, repressive laws. Fear of getting sick and dying on the road, working over ten hours, as you are about to institutionalise, and without trade rights, as you are planning, is not just a decency, as your government says, 'progress or decency'. It's a backwards! Of course, you'll be sure you won't make it after all, at least without any hindrances we're telling you. We'll take care of that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stagiras, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let me begin by saying that all ministerial amendments and no parliamentary amendments are accepted. Apart from that, because it was also raised by the President of the JRC Parliamentary Group, I will say that the situation is difficult. The health situation and the economic and social consequences of the unprecedented health crisis are indeed significant and are unfortunately accompanied by many human losses. Therefore, there is no triumph, nor is there any catastrophe for reality. The National Health System in Greece and especially in Attica is under the greatest pressure from the beginning of the pandemic and the health staff have exceeded their limits. Nevertheless, the system stands up and continues to take care of our fellow citizens in need. Compared with Europe, we have a better performance, but without that being - I repeat - a triumph of triumph when we have to deal with such a reality. We have prepared and implemented an emergency plan. They have become - to go to the field involved by the Ministry of Finance - over ten thousand recruits of medical and nursing personnel compared to 2019. There have been a thousand two hundred permanent doctors hired for the past one and a half years. The number of beds in intensive care units has more than doubled compared to 2019. Now Attica has three hundred nine beds ICU - COVID from two to twenty Nine a month ago. I will repeat that we are here as the Ministry of Finance and we will be here for whatever and as long as the Ministry of Health is needed, outside the budget, to support and strengthen the public health system. Proof of this is that we have added out of the budget the financing of all self-tests without any cost to citizens. The second proof is part of the amendment we tabled as the Ministry of Finance. Procedures are being carried out so that donations totalling about EUR 500,000, which have been deposited by citizens and businesses in the Special Repayment Account for Extraordinary Costs to deal with COVID -19, have been used to provide ten ambulances. The ambulances will be purchased by the Ministry of Finance, in accordance with the technical specifications to be provided by the EKAB and delivered by the Minister of Finance to the Minister of Health for the service of the increasing needs of EKAB throughout Greece. With this initiative, the Ministry of Finance demonstrates that, along with the support of households and businesses, through a wide range of measures, which we are constantly updating, extending and enriching, we manage with efficiency and social sensitivity every resource to protect public health and to support social cohesion. As Minister of Finance, I would like to thank the majority of the four hundred citizens and businesses who, in very difficult economic conditions, contributed to the common critical battle to deal with the health crisis and its consequences. And because these citizens are all over Greece, the ambulances will be distributed throughout Greece. On the core, now, of the bill. I would like to thank all my fellow Members, for the excellent debate that has taken place in committee and continue in plenary. I would like to thank and congratulate opposition parties for their positive attitude to the bill at first, but also for the concerns put forward by all the wings, which I believe have been answered in many respects by seventeen specific positions of my own in committee. Others have been added today and I have to reply to them. SYRIZA's rapporteur, whose I would like to acknowledge its individual interest and contribution to the progress of the project, but not the collective interest of the previous government, as it turns out, presented a relatively idyllic picture of what we received in 2019. He developed eight specific initiatives to unlock the project. I wish today to present twenty-four initiatives in a year and a half and not eight that have been taken in four and a half years, so that we can understand and confirm, as the SYRIZA rapporteur from this Step did, that we are talking about a difficult task, complex, complex, which requires attention and legal certainty. I shall therefore present the twenty-four specific actions, from the adoption of joint ministerial decisions, to the vote and publication of relocation projects by different operators and services, to the publication of an internal limit on immovable property in the coastal zone, twenty-four specific initiatives implemented in the last eighteen months. [[At this point, the Minister for Economy, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I repeat that there are also issues which we have found and which we have changed, because some actions have already been launched for parallel, dual public responsibilities. Luckily, we caught up with them. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Finance, even in difficult conditions created by the Koronioi pandemic, continues to promote reform and development initiatives, which aim to stimulate the dynamic and sustainable prospects of the Greek economy. The start of the investment at the former airport of Greece is a stable one of the most important development priorities of the government, as it concerns both the entire social fabric that operates around the property of the metropolitan pole – Agios Kosmas, as well as the Greek economy as a whole, due to the scope of the investment project. It also concerns the development of the largest, most impressive park in Europe, which will be open to the public. With a size greater than 2 million square meters, the park will be the core of the maritime front connection with the mountainous volume of Hymettos and a major and necessary green lung for the urban fabric of Athens. According to the available figures, which we shared together in the committee, the investment will reach EUR 8 billion, it is expected to create seventy-five thousand new jobs in the full operation of the project, contributing to 2.4% of GDP by the date of its completion. It is estimated that the tax revenue for the Greek State during the twenty-five-year investment activity of the project - construction and operation - will exceed EUR 14 billion in income taxes, corporate taxes, insurance contributions, real estate taxes and VAT. Ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat in plenary that this legislative initiative has specific characteristics. It is consistent, as it includes in a legislature the most important prerequisites for the investment, the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. We are doing exactly what you would have blamed us for if we hadn't. I pressured all those involved to incorporate in a draft law a number of different issues that could come in the next few years, precisely to do what you are asking us to do, namely not to come in fragmentary, but holistic. It is effective because the project is owned by ownership, ensuring maximum legal certainty and full transparency and publicity for all future buyers. It is practical, as various procedural loose ends are regulated and the speed, flexibility and efficiency of the process are further strengthened. It is, however, mainly emblematic, because it completes an act of public interest, as I shall explain in detail below, regarding the property distribution agreement. In this direction, in other words, the completion of the prerequisites and the immediate start of the investment, the draft law includes basic, central institutional units: firstly, ratification of the Distribution Convention and the Special Distribution Chart - that could be an autonomous draft law. Secondly, the creation of a property right, a metropolitan pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas - and that could have been an autonomous draft law. Thirdly, the procedure for the levying of proprietary land rights and the full ownership of the property of the metropolitan park. And fourthly, the possibility of precursors, without any burden on the Greek State. I agree with the rapporteur for Officerial Response, it's obvious. Alas, if he was paying the Greek public! However, this was also made clear by other opposition parties during the debate in the Commission. In particular, this draft law, firstly, ratifys the Distribution Convention with the Special Distribution Chart signed on 9 March 2021 between the Greek State and the GOI as part of an indivisible circumstance of the distributed property. Secondly, it is recommended, in accordance with the provisions of Law 3986/2011, that the Greek State has a right to surface to TSE for a period of ninety years, starting from the transfer of the property rights from the GOI to the company ‘ELLINIKI S.A.’. Third, the possibility of transferring the entire land right as the subject of a contribution in kind to the company ‘Hellenic S.A.’. Fourthly, it is foreseen that, by expiring or extinguishing the right to surface, the surfacer in question is required to deliver the possession of the buildings or structures in general and any horizontal or vertical property to the owner of the ground. Fifth, provision is made for the possibility of amending the terms of the contract to be ratified by means of a written agreement setting out the type of private document between the Greek State and the GOI. Sixthly, the procedure for levying property rights is regulated. Seventhly, the procedural issues of the implementation of the transfer-contribution contract are regulated - that is - of the property rights of the GOI to the "Hellenic S.A.". And eighth, the buyer is given the opportunity before the transfer of the shares to acquire the 100% share capital of the company "ELLENIC S.A." to carry out within the metropolitan park - no more, in fact - at his own expense, his own initiative and responsibility, the actions that are specifically defined in that article - work, without - I shall repeat - no burden of the Greek State. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the distribution of the property, where some concerns have been raised and the SYRIZA rapporteur has added one, two more. The result of the distribution of land is indeed a product of multi-month negotiations between the Ministry of Finance and the GOI on the one hand and the investment entity on the other. All that we are talking about - and the SYRIZA rapporteur also confirmed - started from zero to current government. Since the investor has become superficial throughout the whole area for ninety years, the negotiation on the substance concerned the ownership of the Greek State over 70% of the area after this period. As stated clearly in the Act ‘the special distribution diagram shall be drawn up, having as the background the diagrams accompanying the MGDs of a metropolitan park, the MSDs for the approval of urban studies and the MSDs for development areas’. Therefore, what the relevant KHS for the common jaw, the streams, the large crossing pedestrian road that connects the neighborhoods east to the beach, the exit of the park to the sea, the areas of social reciprocity, and others I confirm and cross the Step of the House that everything continues and is validly applicable. The Special Distribution Chart does not amend at any point either the Presidential Decree or the ministerial decisions adopted, nor could it, as it is not a town plan, be authorized to modify approved studies. It merely reflects what the contract and the information it incorporates serves precisely that purpose. It shows, in other words, only what is distributed between the Greek State and the GOI from the total of about six million square metres. It is clear from the chart that the HICP is becoming the owner of just 30% of them. Throughout the rest of the area, the Greek public remains. The committee has been concerned about whether and what the Greek State takes, namely what parts of the area that will remain the property of the Greek State. And I will say this as simple as possible, because it was not heard at all in this Chamber today: the public is maintaining the full ownership of the operating area where the casino is located, that is to say, the only development area in the area of the former airport. The public is owned by seven blocks of the northern building area, which is intended to be developed with uses of a town centre, while it will be an area of an over-local and multifunctional nature, with dominant uses of trade, offices, tourism, higher education, research and innovation and additional residence, with only 10% of the total permit. The Greek State retains the full ownership of the entire south-eastern area of development of the coastal front, where the existing marina is maintained and strengthened by commercial and ultra-local tourism operations. I would also like to make it clear here that this is what has been said. At the moment when the property is distributed there are no public and public spaces on the ground and they have not yet been created, much more so, on the ground. These sites are currently identified only in the studies for urban planning areas and under no circumstances have they been assigned to their beneficiaries, as long as they are not and have not been constructed. They will be created and implemented in the future after the transfer of the shares to the investor. Subsequently, they will be delivered to the competent bodies - beneficiaries. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Therefore, the distribution takes place at the total real estate of the metropolitan pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas - I now reply to the objections of the Change Movement - whose institutional limit was ratified by the Presidential Decree of the Integrated Development Plan and its surface is about six million square meters. On this overall surface, the full ownership is distributed between the Greek State and the GOI. According to the stock purchase agreement, the GOI must take full ownership of 30% of the area of the former airport and 30% of the coastal zone. All of this - and I have a loose end to my fellow Members - has been confirmed in a relevant proposal from the Committee of the Technical Chamber of Greece. We asked her to be as fortified as we can. The Technical Chamber of Greece addressed the Ministry of Finance and the proposal for the Minutes, with the specific signatures of all, and the legal. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today, too, a reflection has been expressed by the Qualified Opposition. I saw that thought written in a newspaper. The area of the seven hundred and eighty-seven acres - you also referred to it, but also to the relevant publication claims that they are missing from the entire area of the pole - it relates to special areas, namely roads, pedestrians and streams. These special areas are described in detail both in Chapter 4.4 ‘Troubles and streams’ as a sub-heading of Chapter 5 ‘Description of real estate making up the area of the metropolitan pole, according to the March 2021 Special Distribution diagram’, and in Chapter 5 ‘Convention for Distribution’, 3 ‘The Greek State now has the full ownership and ownership of the following properties’, where all the roads and rafts that the Greek State has in its full ownership, predominance and possession, with the following wording - I want to be absolutely accurate and honest: ‘The road with KEK 050EC001’. It is therefore clear that the area of the relevant ECE is accurately referred to in the relevant veterinary leaves. The reason why the area is not mentioned in the text is because the roads, as well as the streams, run not one, but they may also be three urban areas and do not have the form of a building block. This does not, in any event, deny that these areas belong to the ownership, ownership and ownership of the Greek State. This is why, if one adds up to six thousand acres to the extent of all those mentioned in the relevant section of the CEC, the result is indeed six thousand acres. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] As far as the problem of fences is concerned, I think that questions have been answered, but I will repeat their answers. It should be clarified that the arrangements relate to two different categories. One was also mentioned by the Minister earlier. One concerns the whole of the city, it is considered necessary for the safety of the construction site and will be carried out in part, depending on the progress of the work, hence the wording in the Law on the progress of work, which provides for ‘reconstruction, repair or even new construction of a fence for safety reasons for the construction site of the ICM’. The second relates exclusively to the fields of the metropolitan pole and, in particular, to the possibility of building fences within the park's courtyard and within development areas. Under no circumstances does it include the urban areas, such as the neighbourhood of Agios Kosmas, for which obviously the NOK is set for the fences without any exception. This regulation for the park, two million square meters, and the urban development areas, six hundred thousand square meters, is absolutely essential, precisely because of their size and the number of different uses and activities to be welcomed, so that they can actually function as multifunctional sports, recreation, culture and so on. For example, sports areas are well fenced, although they are open to the public, and there are facilities which, because of their destination, must be fenced, such as the building of the Office of Control, the standard urban waste water treatment plant infrastructure, the standard urban solid waste treatment plant infrastructure. Moreover, it should be recalled that the possibility of fences within the single territory of the park is already granted by the OHIM approval of its general organisation. In both cases there are gaps in existing legislation, where the legislative initiatives taken and legislative improvements help to be covered. They therefore do not lead the neighborhood of St. Kosmas to “gatized community” as they do not concern it. Ladies and gentlemen, the assessment of the distribution agreement can be done, as I have said in committee, both qualitatively and quantitatively. I'm going to start without making a great deal of use of time with the quality evaluation. The operating zone, where the casino will be located, is the most privileged spatial unit, in one - I will repeat it - and the only development area in the area of the former airport, as it is adjacent to Poseidon Avenue, with direct access to the coastal front, while it is located the integrated tourist complex, a building of two hundred meters, with the casino. This area of operation is a central point of connection to and from the coastal front. It is also a zone with an unparalleled view to the sea, the mountain, the urban environment, the metropolitan park of greenery and recreation, even with the Glyfada golf course. The integrated tourist complex is designed to host a hotel of selective tourism, with the aim of attracting visitors of a high level. It is doubtful whether there is a corresponding flagship project, such as the integrated tourist complex with the casino, in the area of the South-East Mediterranean, in which one of the most modern model marinas in the wider Mediterranean region can operate. It is also of particular importance to maintain the ownership of the Greek State throughout the south-eastern zone of the coastal front. An element of this zone is the former St Kosmas Olympic Sailing Center and the natural element of the coast. The existing Olympic marina is maintained and strengthened by commercial and ultra-local tourism functions. The eastern boundary of the zone provides for a highway connection with a pedestrian, pedestrian, over Poseidon Avenue, ensuring that the coastal front is directly connected to the section of the integrated tourist complex, the property of which also remains in the Greek State. In particular, the former Olympic Marina is the most important element of the southern enclaves of the coastal area of the metropolitan pole of Greek – Agios Kosmas. Different uses are provided for in the whole area of that zone. Among them, they obviously stand out for the mall and the marina's flagship hotel. Conclusion: The objective of the retention of the ownership of the Greek public tourist infrastructure, with as many territorial proximity as possible, was fully met. In addition to all of these, however, it is also particularly important to maintain the ownership of the Greek State in the northern area of the building of the town centre of Vouliagmeni, which is intended to be an area of over-local and multifunctional nature, with dominant uses of trade, tourism offices, higher education, research and innovation. However, ladies and gentlemen, as part of the distribution agreement, the Ministry of Finance ensured, through agreement with the investmentor, additional areas which will be used by Greek public and public bodies and legal persons controlled directly or indirectly by the Greek State to promote tourism, to attract new investments in Greece and to support sport. In particular, the free allocation of use for seventy-five years of three ground floors, three hundred square meters each, a high visibility and visitability in the shopping centre where it is planned to develop in the “Vuliagmen’s Neighbourhood” Business Centre, the “Business Park”, which is planned to develop in the same “Neighbourhood” and the sports facilities, which are planned to develop in the area of the metropolitan park of greenery and recreation. In conclusion, let us also see the quantitative assessment of the distribution agreement. The Ministry of Finance and in this case addressed the state's institutional technical adviser, namely the Technical Chamber of Greece, before the opening of the negotiation, to ask for his opinion on distribution. Indeed, the Technical Chamber of Greece - and I will submit it for the Minutes - submitted its views together with the proposal on the property to be distributed. In other words, the quantitative comparison - I said it to the committee and it turns out that we have achieved it - and its introduction. I'm putting it both out for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The quantitative comparison of the structural surface proposed by the Technical Chamber of Greece to remain in the ownership of the Greek State, and the structural surface that ultimately remains after our negotiation, is: 50.36% more structured surface in the property and for the benefit of the Greek State, i.e. 336.434.39 more square metres. In conclusion, because I have basically developed a part of the amendment, so as not to come back, I will make another reference to this amendment to ELVO. I know it's a lot of opposition parties. The others will be analysed by Mr. Vésiropoulos. The question of the payment to the former employees of ELVO of the allowances due after their retirement pension which were not paid in connection with the special liquidation of ELVO is resolved. This issue and issue is dealt with by a relevant legislative initiative, as it concerns basic labour rights, and in this way the state actively supports work and the rights arising there from it in general. The payment shall be made immediately upon submission of a request and of the supporting documents provided for in the Department of Supervisory Bodies of the Ministry of Finance. This arrangement demonstrates the special responsibility of the State for restoring the employment rights of persons who have been employed in a company under special liquidation. At the same time, by another provision, the concept of operating costs of the undertaking taken into account and excluded as management costs shall be updated prior to the drawing up of the list of creditors by the manager. With all this, ladies and gentlemen, we continue without forgetting the path of development reforms for the benefit of the country, the economy and society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too, Minister. The parliamentary representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all for restoring the truth, Mr Brutsi, how united we are as a party, as regards the objections we have raised, I will put forward four objections from all parties that happen to be in the Greek Parliament today, except the Greek Solution, because they were not before. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMBROYLIS]] So we have objections here - I show them little to see them from the New Democracy, as well as from the Change Movement, the Democratic Reconciliation and, of course, also from SYRIZA, which nowhere explain how the specific articles of the Constitution are being violated, which these objections claim to be violated, but above all, the three of them are not even mentioned in the articles of the Constitution that are being violated. Therefore, Mr Brutsis, as a parliamentarian - I am not saying this personally - do not give up on something that, as it turns out, Mr Vorides signs your own - is a regular practice in the Greek Parliament. That's how it's done. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Claus Gregoriadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, 'Thriastic' end! "Announcement" end! "Laiko" hospital over! "Attica" hospital over! Finally, it's over! "Telete" could be the title of my speech today. Look at you, 'cause things are starting to get serious to a felony. And before I cross the choices made by our doctors, I'd like to clarify a matter, so we can get it over with. I don't know exactly how many IDs - and I don't know if you know, because that's how it looks from pluralism - you've been able to make these preys for two years that you've been running. What I know safely is that it's definitely not enough. Because, if they arrived, we would have today officially five hundred patients, who need to be treated in ICU, in common beds or homes. So that's not enough. The choices made by our doctors between the tubes that will enter ICUs and those who will stay in common beds, i.e. in short, the difference between life and death for all these people, last week, with the exception of the rule. Well, congratulations to our government. Congratulations to our long-time vezier, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who has managed to be permanent in this country. I hope, Mr Stakoura, that you return, because I have to tell you a few things, and to restore our relationships, but also to see which of us is telling us the truth. I'm so glad you're back. The rule of choice has been frozen. So, from now on, our doctors will decide, while they will not be burdened with, who will live and who will die, at the risk of failing your choice. Because, as I told you last week, the main criterion is youth, but it goes away, often proves the oldest strongest, with better immune than the youngest, and where you support a fifty-year-old and let the old man die, then the 50-year-old dies, who may be me who is fifty-five, and the old man fights out of ID, with his poor powers and lives and, of course, brings in despair the doctor who chose to leave the old man out, to support the young man. So these crimes have become permanent, it's normality. Lalistos, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in his attempt to demonize private doctors who do not rush away to cover the gaps of the ESS, which he did not, of course, care for himself for the entire twelve months, although he knew very well, much better than me, that he also followed a second and third wave, which came and created the well-known "infarction" to all of us in our national health system. Larcast and private doctors' s symphony, then. However, for a year now, Mr Mitsotakis has been calling for large private health systems, which are of course part of a parasitic clinical ruler, who he seems to be, or at least - not to be so fat about from this Step - to behave exactly as if he were his own official. Even worse, instead of our Prime Minister also having a bulwark out of shame that he did not hire anyone - I repeat, in order not to misunderstand me - nor a completely permanent doctor in the National Health System to date, he dares to open his mouth and paraphrase the truth, obscurely vague and mixed numbers, which lead to a blurred set of seven thousand people in health and doctors, but without anyone dares - neither the Minister of Health nor the Prime Minister, nor the mere MEP, nor the parliamentary representative of the governing party -, without any one of you dare to clarify that more than six thousand of these seven are sanitary and that only the remaining - fewer than a thousand - are doctors and, surely, none of them has ever been recruited on a permanent basis. What about the increase of the ICUs? We are not going to enter the foggy and ludicrous debate about exactly how much IM the government has added to the existing ones, who against other ministers are three hundred eighty, against another are five hundred, against another five hundred fifty and fifty, of which you have added. And there are some terrible optimists who are counting on six hundred. Of course, all these count as new and eighty - two hundred decades ago in all our military hospitals on the ground. Now, then, these ICUs are just being used, but there's always been. Meanwhile, others of you count as ITH repaired surgery and the most ruthless of you consider ITH even common beds that simply have respirators and on them are lying down - very, very badly, wrongly - intact fellow humans today. And since there is so much ambiguity about how many new ITHs the government has created over the past year, how many of them have managed to serve and how many have it finally - to know - as a whole today our country will be enough to remind everyone in the National Representation of the world's original and unique post - I mean the mathematical term of office - our Minister, our Minister of State, George Gerapetiti: "If we had more ITH, more people would die." You are, these are the teachers - the excellent - Constitutional Law you have done ministers and such things they say with seven and a half thousand dead. When he said it - to be honest too - the dead were five and a half thousand dead. If more people die, why do you have to fix? Don't make it. Remove the ones we have. I have one more thing to tell you. By the office of Gerapitri, if you had the intelligence to immediately abolish from the first day you took over the existing ones, no man would have died as they were the fault of our fellow men. And to end with what you have not done a whole year now to shield the ESS, that is, the Greek people - because he is behind the ESS - let me reply to any of you who considers himself here today - Prime Minister, Minister or Member - if you have reduced - the public expenditure on our health by EUR 572 million in the budget that you have submitted for 2021, which we are running now, and if you have reduced - yes or not - in this same budget the public expenditure on COVID -19 in just a few - listen! -EUR 131 million this year from the EUR 523 million that you, the same government, paid last year. Do you know why? Because you thought - not to say why you thought it - it would have gone away this year. It's obvious. If you gave the three-fold money for COVID last year, namely EUR 523 million, and this year you give EUR 131 million, it will say that you have fallen out on all the forecasts, and you have more safely fallen out in a royal way and in this forecast. Finally, how exactly do you expect, Mr Stakoura - since you represent the government - to defeat this coronary with such a horrifying cut in expenditure to combat it? You have to admit that you obviously just bet - a year now, not today - on the fact that the virus will sometime decide to kill itself or that we will all stick and have a herd immunity. And since you are not shielding the ESS, since the parasitic oligarchs who have supported your election - I do not mean you, Mr Staikora, I mean all the government of the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis - do not allow you to do so, as in Great Britain's "ESS", as in Italy the "ESY", as in France the "ESY" will, because everywhere parasitic oligarchs are taking place in governments - puppets, supposedly European, parasitic oligarchs, and since they intend to share the same pie of care, when this desert of our national health system will have completely dispersed it and destroyed it and since you have caved away the pandemics of yours, you will not legislate all this time with all the business relations left on behalf of you - and you will not just be thrown away from them by a few hundreds of those peoples - who are simply giving them any more money than you knowing. What are you doing? The generalised suppression necessary to meet all the previous ones with the least possible popular resistance. Apart from constitutional illegality, this generalised violent repression, you know, as I have been telling you for weeks, is also extremely dangerous for our democracy. Because this generalised illegal state repression, which tends to become status over the past year in our homeland, is exactly the one that gives rise to people like Mr Thanasis Davoras. You know, well, who's Mr. Thanasis Davouras? I'll let you know. He is the Vice-President of POSY and President of the Larissa Police Union. So you are giving these people the right to say in public statements - in particular, a radio station in Larissa, the 'TRT' - to say the following. Listen and admire! He said: 'People have been slapped because of the abstention of both 'clubbing' and 'new', a wonderful word, 'clubbing' - 'we are now apologising all over the apocalypse'! New neo-importance, stunning! Two neologies in a man who is obviously illiterate. Congratulations, please. In the 'apolyte', therefore, the gentleman is forced to apologise. A bad picture - that is what one colleague saw - an unfortunate moment that almost led to the murder of another colleague - has also seen and, of course, has a precedent. A little further it says: 'The anti-social toxic waste that lives with the blood of a police officer' - does not remind you of any civil war, only to me? - "They're vampires living with a cop's blood." That's what he said. Does it just remind me? If the political leadership of ELAS does not understand that this man's word is dangerous and directly raises against democracy, our culture, that is, we are not at all surprised that a few months ago the same political leadership decided that it was dangerous for our democracy the course of seven elected MPs of the Greek people from our Parliament to the US Embassy and sent for this reason hundreds of men of MATs and hundreds of other women and men of the group "WHO" to stop them. Both the political leadership - say me, Minister for Violence against the citizen, Michali Chrysochoidis - and the speech of the President of the Association of Police Larissa proves with the choices of acts and their reasons, respectively, that they are more dangerous than the elected representatives of the Greek people from their special guard, who for two and a half minutes hit at the head and the body with an iron-plated iron citizen who had not taken any completely illegal act and who was not in any way provocative, such as all the videos that start before the start of this incident have undeniably revealed. And now, where a bad police officer of the group "DRAG" indebtedness, according to the trade unionist, forces all these "washed" people to apologise to our "absolute". When you finish with the explanations that you guys are forced to give, the clean ones, to all of us laundry and filthy, do you want to make an effort together, political leadership and police union traders, do you finally get Christos Pappas, the other democratic diamond that is four months away from being arrested and mocking at your face? You'll tell me, you've got so many dangerous students, students, photojournalists and family people who dare to walk in the square with their children to arrest. However, for the eyes of the world, after you get us all the other Greeks, catch the Pope, if you want. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u93	Thank you. We will now give the floor to the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance, Mr Tsipras, and then Mr Varoufakis, the President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has escaped, but at the same time, unfortunately, the government has also escaped. This is the first time, I think, in the time of the country that at such a critical time all opposition parties, but also the overwhelming majority of citizens are shouting at the government, not just that it is wrong, not just that they disagree with aspects of its policy, but that they do not feel what is really happening in the country. We are not talking here about opposition to the government, but we are talking about the anguish of an entire society and the people, especially who are giving the battle a year now on the front line to convince you that you are saying and doing other things instead, while people are being lost. And it's literally that. But whatever happens, whatever the evolution of this time in the course of the pandemic, sometimes positive, sometimes moderate, sometimes too negative, you have only one argument. What you actually fantasize is that you respond to the opposition, to your political opponents, that you respond to SYRIZA and not to the citizens who fight. If anyone reads the interventions of almost all government officials over the past period, basically repeats two things: "We have gone, our management is extremely successful" and for everything that is wrong with SYRIZA. In fact, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, at least for a moment to try to get out of this glass cage and for a moment or so think, not how you will respond to the opposition, but how you will respond to the citizens. Mr. Contozamanis, you will of course know. Mr. Conzamanis isn't here. I'm confused, I'm sorry. It's the mask that messed me up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u95	I'm looking to see where he is, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u96	But you look like it! There's no one here from the Department of Health. It would be interesting if someone from the Department of Health were here. However, I would like to address the other ministers and forgive me for the misunderstanding. Obviously, political responsibility belongs to the government and under the Constitution. Well, you know, in the last few days, we've had a very rapid deterioration. Day after day, the account we have in the public hospitals in the country is an account similar to military announcements. Yesterday, sixty nine people lost their lives. Six hundred eighty ones are intubated into intensive care units. A hundred and five yesterday, because less than in the past few days, intact handrailed in simple CIVID clinics, outside the intensive care units, to wait for bed in an intensive care facility. So I wanted, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to address you, asking you not to answer SYRIZA, Opposition and opposition parties, but to answer and address the families of these people. They don't care about these people if you answer Tsipras, they care what you answer to them. Why didn't you raise the National Health System for a year now? Why have you not taken care to dilute routes to public transport so that there are no centres of over-transmission of the virus throughout the entire period, which the vast majority, of course, has been pressing, as we are the country with the longest and most inefficient lockdowns throughout Europe for five months? Why don't you prescribe the tests for a year, so there can be a serious picture, a serious epidemiological surveillance, and aim to intervene where there are transmissions? A year now, the opposition is asking you all to do mass and targeted tests and to prescribe so that every citizen with symptoms can go to the doctor and free of charge to see if he has the virus and if he has it, to protect other people from transmission. We ask you to do this targeted at the workplace. The state will provide free tests for workers, every Monday and every Friday. To be provided in schools, pupils and teachers, every Monday and every Friday. You didn't do that. You refused. A year now, you've been telling us that you don't need all of this. And you came the other day to announce the pharmacy test, the so-called self testing. To cover your failure, individual responsibility must now be converted into individual guilt. The concept of collective health protection becomes an individual case. Instead of taking care of coordinates and, above all, safely to control the entire population, you tell the citizens 'your responsibility, go to pharmacy and make a stop'. It turns out that I've had a sketchy way of doing this, without a plan. You have not been informed whether or not and how the self testing results will be recorded, nor even about positive cases. You have not even been consulted with the pharmacists, nor with each other within the government. At first Mr. Scorch said that the results would not be recorded anywhere. Then Mr Pierracakis said to save it and announced that a platform would be set up. Free test, you announced at first. Then we learned that if a citizen wants to ask the pharmacist to help him, he will pay a predetermined fee. These aren't serious things. This proves you're working the most critical moment without a plan. And in the question why you did not adopt the proposal tabled by the opposition a year ago to prescribe the tests, to be given free of charge to those who wish it, and indeed the most reliable tests, which are the molecular ones, Mr Scorchos answered in his first statement that the issue is an economic one. He even flew a number. He said that 2.4 billion would cost it. Where did he get that? In any case, however, we must accept it. What exactly did Mr. Mitsotakis' closest partner say? That one year now all these algorithms that you've been presenting to us, all these "smart" tests, the famous EVA that would sample some of the three million tourists who came to the country, all that you've done so long in disagreement with the self-evident, mass scanning in the population that we suggested, you didn't do it, not because you were a world pioneering, as you were saying, but why you didn't want to spend money. Because it was inconsistent. So what are you telling us? The government has received 37 billion from the previous government in public funds, in a country where all this pandemic is borrowed at historically low interest rates and has no financial limitation for the first time in the years we are in the European Union - certainly - and you tell us that in these circumstances it is inappropriate for you to save citizens. From the thrown money for Mr. Pezza's intensive care facility, we've now gone to the threw money for Mr. Scortsu's molecular tests. So what have you done? Have you set any price in human life and concluded that this is inconsistent? Of course, you are addressing the opposition. You're talking, and we're in 2014 when you told us your program didn't come out. But we're not talking about our programme here. We are talking about elementary things here. We're talking about human life here. That's what we want to protect. Not to mention - I do not want to put them in the balance - how much we would have saved, Mr Stakoura, from the losses that we have had, which you, too, measured in many billions, from the constantly repeated and incomplete lockdown for five months. As far as doctors' orders are concerned, one year now you have not made a single temporary intake of a permanent doctor. For a year! And you come to five and while the hospitals have collapsed, you run to recruit two hundred doctors. Two hundred doctors couldn't have hired you a year now? Wasn't that possible? He tells us today: “How do we hire them? There are no doctors." Lies unconscious and tragic to be called these hours. The SYRIZA government has announced nine hundred and fifty new doctors' posts in May 2019. Once you came to governance, you canceled the competition and declared it once again after the pandemic in March 2020 and so far no one has been hired. I would just like to give you two examples, to prove to the Greeks that it is not possible at the time when the middle Greek family is experiencing this tragedy, you to hide your inability to lie, hide your idealism and your political choice not to throw money to save people's lives and not to hire doctors, saying that they are not there. I will only mention two examples. First example. Birthday Hospital: Five pathological posts were announced. Do you know how many were candidates? Forty-five. Five people have been hired, but forty others have not yet entered the system. They're there, there's them. The second example. ELPIS Hospital. Only one pneumonologist post was called. Do you know how many were candidates? Forty-three. One hired and the other forty two are preoccupied. They're there, pneumonologists. You tell us there are no doctors. Why don't you take all of them now? Why don't you hire everyone now, rather than pretending to do what you're tough and strict and you're running to private doctors? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Which private doctors? What exactly are you going to do? Will you go to those who have private medicine in Kipseli and Perama - to show that I have taken all your pains toward the public and must the private people to whom you are hard - put them on the system to treat the impounded? Where? In their private medicine? What exactly are you doing? And in any case, you know how to do things all the time in terms of assignments. When it comes to awards, you're the first ones in the MDGs. Now for these doctors who exist, why don't you do a legislative act so that they can be hired tomorrow morning and you're playing this whole theater with the supposed order? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I gave two examples. There are dozens of examples and I challenge you to deny me. Of course, you do bullies with private doctors, but with the clinical leaders all "milk-milk". You do the lion to the doctor, but the duck to the clinical chief, because the moment private clinics in our country enjoy immunity, a strange immunity. There is no place for them to fight the coronary, they must remain uninfected without incidents of COVID. And, of course, I am well aware that it is not possible for the intensive care units they have, to treat serious incidents, but it is absolutely possible to treat people in the rehabilitation process and they must stay in hospitals for a couple of weeks and not leave their home. They must all be in battle. But that means cost to those who have to keep their profits. In short, you're a government that's lost the ball. You've lost the ball not only of pandemic, you've lost every moral compass I'd say. It is a pity that I have confused Mr. Papathanassis with the Secretary of State for Health, who could answer all this, because I imagine that Mr. Stagiras will not be able to know all this information which I have tabled. But here we are, to come and answer the ministers of government. It is crucial that the hours spent and theatrical times, with impressions and communication policy, do not solve the problems. I said you've lost every moral compass. I say this because today, Mr Staikoura, I would like to refer to two major issues, in addition to my position on this bill. I would like to refer to two issues, in my view, major scandals, which, in the midst of a pandemic and possibly on the occasion of the pandemic, are under the responsibility of the government and, personally, I would say, the Prime Minister. One concerns the 'CISCO' case and the other concerns developments, Mr Stakoura and the Piraeus Bank. A year or so, almost ten months in fact, the Opposition asks the Minister of Education to make the agreement public with CISCO on telecom. A tele-education that turned out to have a lot of problems, a tele-education that affected tens of thousands of Greek families who could not have been able to get in, get out of their children and be over their heads to continuously take care of them when they come out of the Internet that fell in the first few days, but in any case a contract that all the anti-population parties had suspected of happening from the first moment. It is not only your disobedience to the public system that you refused the public platforms to go to a private one. He was playing something. Just as we felt the same way with the famous contract that you made with "PALANTIR" and which was suddenly interrupted when it was learned. But we haven't learned any details about her either. A year, Mrs. Keramea refuses. It says constantly and persistently: 'Come to my office and show it to you'. Really? Is this the process of accountability in a favoured democracy? "Come to my office and show you"? The parliamentary institutions are not there? Didn't she have to post her at the "GENERAL"? Was it not obliged, when the opposition and all parties have been calling for this convention for ten months, to give it to the knowledge of the opposition parties in every detail? But when she was forced to go through the Court of Auditors, amended twice - three times, she was forced to do so despite the fact that she was telling us that it was free. You know, in capitalism, companies that make such a gift for their mother's soul? I don't know. The profit is. And here we will see that this is more than just profit. So when this contract was forced to pass by the Court of Auditors, it was evidently because he realized that we would "beat" it all and discover it in order not to be exposed, he posted it on the mosquitoes, not on the "DIAGY", not on the House, but on the Ministry of Education's site, if he also won time before seeing it. However, we have seen this contract. What, then, does this convention provide for? What does it prove? That 2 million euros were awarded - your dear process - to this company, but mainly the personal data of Greek citizens became a gift to the company. The Court of Auditors' document states that it was only free of charge and we find that data of one and a half million users of the platform, pupils and teachers, have been given to a private company. What does that mean, practically? That the company now, as we speak, has the ability to know the preferences, the habits, the choices of almost half the Greek households. He knows this company about every computer that uses a student to do classrooms - and who obviously handle except their students and parents in most of the cases - on which sites they go, when, how many times they go in, what markets they do, what preferences they like, what smoke they make. That's a huge scandal. Two million of the assignment is nothing. All right, Mrs Nikolau did two million assignments, which she has eaten and the knobs in prison. The two million awards are nothing in front of the tens of millions that the company can make using this data, precisely targeting advertising campaigns or selling the data to advertising companies, which can access the behavior and habits of half of the Greek households online, one and a half million households so many computers are. So this is a huge scandal. And in any other European country, if that were the case, the Minister would have to give an explanation not only but also to submit her resignation. Okay, I don't know if this would happen in Hungary, Orban, but in any other country with a liberal tradition. He could not stand up to a Minister who gave not only two million with delegation and hidden it, but the crucial data concerning population habits for the first time in a private company. Of course, you know, I will not do you a favor once again to ask for the resignation of a minister, because it is more likely that it is not Mrs Kerameau's problem, but Mr Mitsotakis. Mr. Mitsotakis knew not to say that he ordered this to happen. A Prime Minister cannot know when such a crime is being committed against the personal data of the citizens of his country. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I come now to another great scandal, Mr. Stagira, which Mr. Mitsotakis also knows not only, but Mr. Mitsotakis is directed, he is the director of this scandal, a great robbery that is currently taking place at the expense of the Greek public. Piraeus Bank has received state support over 16 billion euros from the Greek State over the past decade. It's Greek citizens' money, 16 billion, 10% of our GDP. No other Greek bank has been supported as much as Piraeus Bank by the Greek taxpayer. Your Government, the administration of the Financial Stability Fund and the administration of Piraeus Bank together you are struggling today with a capital increase that seeks to delete these 16 billion euros and lead the bank to the hands of unknown investors questioning economic soundness and dynamics. Just months ago, Piraeus Bank administration decided in consultation with the Government not to pay the CFSF, the Financial Stability Fund, the so-called Cocos coupon of EUR 166 million and thus led to the conversion of bonds of EUR 2 billion into shares at a price much higher than the stock exchange. Thus the HFSF representing the Greek State here, the Greek State, i.e. it was found to be the main shareholder of the bank at 61.34%, which certainly did not happen without any damage. With a loss of at least EUR 1.1 billion in the fund's balance sheet, this was done. Damage 1,1 billion, but at least the 16 billion that the citizens have put, the Greek State, to save the bank, to have control of the bank, to have the opportunity to have these shares there. And what do you guys do now? You are inclined to lose all this and this new sacrifice by the Greek taxpayer to turn, as you are working with the bank's administration to increase the share capital that will eliminate the participation of the CF Bank in Piraeus. The terms of the increase have already caused the shareholders to react, as they will not only lose their money to the Greek State, but also to the shareholders will not be allowed to exercise their rights and will thus lead to a universal loss of their investment. To do this more schematic, on 7 April at the general meeting of Piraeus Bank, the main shareholder, i.e., today of the bank, is required to approve that he will lose the money that has so far been put into Piraeus Bank by the Greek State. Everything. But not just that. As a majority shareholder in its decision, it will also determine the fate of minority shareholders by depriving them of the right to participate in the capital increase. We're talking about unprecedented things. Where have these been written? What do we have here a market economy? Are you free market fans or banks socialism fans? For banks of socialism and ordinary citizens to pay. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Are you really liberal with the market economy and do such things? These don't have a precedent. I'm going to tell you quite simply what you're planning and implementing these days with Piraeus Bank, do you know what it's called in popular cafes? It's called robbery. And in the legal houses, do you know what it's called? Infidelity is called in legal lands, infidelity of karabinatis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, since you were aware of this, you were prepared to amend the Financial Stability Fund laws days ago by laying down among other things something that is an international legal paradox, that in the event that the members of the administration of the Financial Stability Fund, a general government body with the aim of safeguarding the public interest, take decisions that do not serve the public interest, that is to say, they will not be faced with the public interest, but will only be prosecuted for malicious infidelity by imprisonment, i.e. only if the Financial Stability Fund itself moves against them, i.e. against itself. That's what you voted on. And that is why the first thing that this government has done since it was elected was to change the Criminal Code. Do you know why? He changed the Criminal Code to memorize the bank executives who commit infidelity. That was your dalac, and to do this you put on a couple more provisions for debris. Your main concern as soon as you came out was to memorize the bank executives. So here, ladies and gentlemen, and I will say it clearly, we have a premeditated, planned crime at the expense of the Greek government and at the expense of hundreds of thousands of small shareholders and as many amnesias as you vote for the bank executives to know this neither the criminal nor the political responsibilities of your government are deleted. And to paraphrase a historical phrase: "There are still judges in Athens" to say that I hope there are still judges in Athens and on this major issue and on your unprecedented scandalous order to assume responsibility and to stand up to the circumstances, because this is where the Constitution is being violated, not only in the public interest. In any case, Mr Stavoura, please inform the Prime Minister who is absent today from the House, keep in mind that you specifically are setting up special courts to make political persecutions against your political opponents, now that you are taking these criminal decisions and make sure that at least we do at least what is going through our hand so that this scandal can be accountable to the Greek society and that small shareholders know that we will stand next to them and that SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance will ensure that all your responsibilities policies and possible criminals do not hide, come to the light. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Allow me, in relation to today's vote on the Greek bill, to say a few words. I want to start from the favourite myth of the government, Mr. Stakoura, that SYRIZA is a party and was a government hostile to investors. I would like you to look back and see when exactly we broke all the records of foreign direct investment in the country, the so-called FDI, Foreign Direct Investments. When? In 2018 and 2019. In 2018 we broke a record from 2005 and 2019 and all about SYRIZA. So SYRIZA fought the investment in Greek and still fights it. That's your candy. So let us remember how SYRIZA fought the investment in Greek as a government. In 2015 we took over, found a plot without even topography, with sixty nine institutions that should have left already in 2012. And of course, no basic loose ends, such as archaeological, forests, the Land register, had been solved. The original contract didn't even have a free park. The area was expected to be enclosed, without access and without access to the beaches. That is why it had to be amended for the benefit of the Greek public and the citizens of the region, and that is what we did. With the 2016 amending contract, we ensured changes in the design of environmental social content, increasing green, opening to the sea, i.e. to Glyfada, Alimos and Greek, connecting to a fixed track, with bicycle roads, pedestrian roads and finally reducing the original construction. We managed to win one and a half billion more investments, not at the price, as it would go directly to debt repayment, but to infrastructure projects that the citizen will enjoy and which the investor has undertaken, changes related to the schedule for payment of the price and completion of the projects, to the maintenance of the existing entities within the emergency investment, such as accommodation areas for disabled persons, the sports centre of Agios Kosmas, while the final design of the investor will provide for a placement for the housing needs of the units of Greek Police and Firefighting. We have received - it is true - severe pressure from the investor to become the entity of an anonymous company. We didn't give up. The entity remained a legal entity governed by private law in a mutually beneficial and non-profit-making nature. It operates for the sake of the public interest and the majority of its board of directors have it by the local government. The decision of the Council of State has justified us. We have managed to deliver the property free from possession of third parties at least 95%. We proceeded with the adoption by the Greek general public framework for the granting of casino operating licences in 2018. The international competition for the licensing of casinos within a metropolitan pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas was from 22-2-19 in progress. Of course, the joint ministerial decision on the Greek park was also issued, shortly before we hand over the government to the New Democracy. That's what we've done for a project that we've received. Let's see what you've been doing for almost two years. First of all, you made your opposition flag before you took over the rule, that the Greeks were fighting it, and you, as soon as you came, would untie it immediately. You promised by election in the first week - within seven days your athem feared by your chief at his pre-election rounds at the balconies! - that you'll unlock the project and start the work. And for twenty months, all we saw was reminding of work is the punctual memory of the bulldozers that Mr. Mitsotakis blessed, when he stood under a manica that was throwing water to demolition a building and taking photos. The shame with what you did with the Greek. You have lost the world for delaying a decision on the CSCE for 15 days, plunging the world down, and for twenty months you haven't made any progress. Twenty months! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] If your promises and words about the Greek were bricks, you would have built them all yourself with so many bricks you have thrown. So I'll remind you, because scripta manent, the following. Election Mitsotakis in the balconies: "A commitment to unblock the investment in the Greek within seven days". That's what he said. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] He said that in June. Mitsotakis: "The decisions on the Greek are the same as the decisions on the Greek". He said that in June, in the pre-election period. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] But July is coming, elected government. He is responsible for Mr Georgiadis, as he likes to say, for the development. He sees the reality, he starts to get a little harder. Georgiadis Statement on 22 July, shortly after taking up his duties. All right, "not the first week, but in 2019, bulldozers enter the Greek." I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Let's see! So it came in 2019. Georgiadis, on 23 July 2019. Half the time has passed. ‘The goal is to put bulldozers in Greek by the end of 2019’. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Minister of Development said it. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. It is enough in December 2019. Georgiadis: "The goal is to put bulldozers into Greek at the beginning of 2020", next year! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm presenting it for the Minutes. From the first week we went to the end of the year, we went to the beginning of next, we went to the end of the next week, then at the beginning of the aftermath. There are four more months in which you assured us that the works will begin by the end of April. We arrive in July, where Mr. Mitsotakis appeared, as I said before, to bless the demolition with the manicides, to bless the bulldozers. Four arbitrary buildings were demolished. That was your big contribution, two years of government. On 7 July you showed yourself up and said that by the end of the year all the buildings would have been demolished and three and a half years' date for the opening, so that we could finally arrive on 20 December, which not only had the demolition of the buildings even progressed, but also the legality of some of the demolition issues. But after three questions, Mr. Georgiadis, do you know what he's answering at the end of last year? He pleads unauthorized. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Mr. Georgiadis has been unreserved after so many statements that he is starting tomorrow, tomorrow he begins, at the beginning of the year, at the end of the year, next year. Responsibilities of Mr Georgiadis, 11 December in 2020. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's your hypocrisy. And I'm not coming here to tell you words of the air. You were saying the words of the air. I come with evidence. But to be honest, the problem is not the Minister of Development in a country of freezing rather than growth, which has a recession of 8.2%. And he has a title that only Mr. Georgiadis could have. 8.2% reduction - Minister for Development! The problem is not Mr. Georgiadis. The problem isn't just, I'd say, the election lies of Mr. Mitsotakis. The problem is, you're also liars and incompetent and hypocritical and useless. The problem is you can't take a stone to get her out of here and put her further. That's the problem. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you presented yourself as supposedly exquisite and capable and technocratic. Not only did you not go ahead with the projects, since for twenty months you have not made the demolitions, but now you are also bringing problematic provisions to the vote. It is obvious that it is precisely because you are technically inadequate and have been delayed instead of promoting the investment, you have finally made concessions and concessions unnecessarily to the investor to appease him. And so, you know, you risk something much more. You risk the legal certainty of the investment itself, because this is not a simple investment, it has too many appeals. Everything went well during our government service, because we had technocratic adequacy, we were serious and we were not looking to do favors and rumbles, but to protect the public interest. We have taken a step - step by step - all legislation and jurisprudence. So when the new provisions come with you now and give the investor more ownership, for example, you are perhaps creating issues in the competitive process. I really want to stand on two points of criticism. The first is that you are giving the company more ownership to the Greek State, not now with this bill, you have already done so with amendments that you have brought. Change the law so that the public, public and social contributors are not attributed to the beneficiary municipalities, local authorities, Church, and I do not know what else, before distribution, with the result that the investor will have 30% ownership, to become 40% for the area of the former airport and 37% for the coastal front area. That's the image we have at least. The second point I would like to raise is a crucial issue, if you like, and it has a particular symbolic and essential value. It's the fence thing. Of course, the projects - we understand - are essential for the construction site. There's no doubt about that. But, here you are giving the opportunity, and after the completion of the works, to build a enclosed city, as the company was asking for from the beginning, and we refused and reached agreement on this. That - and I ask you to change it - is something that needs to be avoided. This project, the part concerning the metropolitan park, should be accessible to all residents of the surrounding areas of the Greek, Glyfada, Alimos, should be accessible to all residents of Attica. Because when it is completed - unfortunately, it will be late to end - it will indeed be a lung of greenery and entertainment and must be open to all citizens. So the investment - and I am closing, Mr President - must go ahead, but I am sure that you are not able, not only to secure the public interest in the investment, but not to ensure its smooth course, because such a serious investment needs seriousness and a plan. And unfortunately, you've both been divorced. From the first time you took over the administration, you have proved that you have neither serious nor plan, only communication and gifts to private individuals at the expense of the Greek public. You know what, though? Communication has a limit and this is the reality, it is life itself, it is all that citizens experience. From the economy, pandemic to education and investment you are completely unable to implement a coherent strategy in the interests of the citizens, in the public interest, in the interests of the country. And that has now become evident to the Greek people. In short, you can no longer and the sooner you realize it the more and more you will be able to rescue the next government of the country, a progressive government that will come to bring the country back to orbit regularity, development orbit, to orbit social justice. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u97	After the Step is ready, we will give the floor to the President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Yiannis Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u99	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, he has mentioned the names of both of us. Staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u101	Mr Minister, I beg your pardon, but will the President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group then speak if you wish to take the floor to answer some questions, I would be happy to give it to you. The President of Parliament has already announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u102	Staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u103	Wait till you hear Mr. Varoufakis and that's where you'll be. Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with a report which does not relate to what has been said here today, but I think it is important. Last week, HDP MP's parliamentary immunity came to the Turkish parliament, Omer Faruk Gergerlioglu, a well-known human rights fighter, women's rights, against the police violence of Mr Erdogan's state. The regime of Mr Erdogan "wrapped in a paper glue" Omer Faruk on charges of terrorist abuse, with a one-year imprisonment, for a tweet, a record on the Internet five years ago in support of the peace talks between Ankara and the Kurdish community. It is the first step to put Turkey's third largest party out of law. We, as a PART25, and as a DIEM25 and as a "PRETENTIAL INTERNATIONAL", started since yesterday a global campaign to protect the democratics of Turkey from this new status attack. We call on all of you and all of you to unite our voices about it. Because, as we say at Mera25 in all tons, our best allies in the region against tensions, in favour of common prosperity, are the Turkish democrats who have the courage to stand up against Mr Erdogan's regime and, more generally, the military establishment of the country. They deserve our solidarity, and I hope that the rest of the parties will not remain silent about this. I come to ours now in the bill. It is impressive that the government is introducing one bill after another. It is a consequence that goes on. You had three subtle aces that you pulled out of the sleeve, ladies and gentlemen of the government. The first ace was the impunity - not only the asylum, immunity, but the impunity - of the CFS CF officials, the Financial - Stability - Fund - say what you want - because we see what is happening now and with Piraeus. The second ace was the self-assessment of public suppliers and big-workers. The third ace was the immunity of ELDORADO, which passed a few days ago. Now comes Mitsotakis Government to complete the frame of intercom with a fourth ace, the award of the Greek to Mr. Latsis. Within a few days a overwhelming score was formed: Graduated oligarchy, Greek public and public interest: 4-0. You don't mind denying the reality, ladies and gentlemen of the government. After all, you have the means of mass deception, which guarantee that public opinion will never know what was said here today, what you voted on. As you did not know what you voted for "ELDORADO" the other day. Unfortunately, we are saddened by the fact that reality confirms us. Do you remember what I told you here in this Parliament on 5 November 2020? I said that, due to the commitments of the Samara - Venizelou Government initially, but also Tsipras - Tsakalotou, Piraeus Bank will be re-ruralised at billions of public and later, in no time, I see you re-private it again. That's the way it happened. Officially now it is admitted that the ‘treaters’ you have had to manage bank shares through the ‘lending-coverage order’. That's not a fund. On page 24 of the mid-term financial statements of the HFSF for the nine-month 2020 posted on the Internet, the government’s loss of money is explicitly indicated, the irreparable damage of the public within three months of the 1.318 million that Piraeus is intended not to pay EUR 166 million, which corresponds to its annual instalment to the public for the repayment of the Convertible Cocos bonds, due after the 2 billion previously received. I quote in the minutes the shameful admission of the "bulk cover order" that you call the Financial Stability Fund. In particular, on page 24, above - above, it clearly states: ‘Since the fair value of Cocos amounts to 1,589.7 million, this damage has been finalised at 1,182.5 million for the year beginning 1-2020 and will be recorded in the statement of total income...’ in the fourth quarter of 2020. I have also stressed this paragraph so that there is no problem. [[At this point, the Secretary of Mera25 Mr.Giannis Varoufakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unfortunately, the hypocrisy of Officer Opposition is such that it almost covers yours, Minister. I have heard Mr Tsipras criticise you and say that you have launched what I have just described. You didn't start it. You executed it. Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Tsakalotos launched it, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. You might not know that. Look for it. What happened after the conspiracy and signature of 'yes' to everything in the third memorandum from you, together with them, is, of course, very simple. You gave them these convertible bonds, a loan essentially, which is converted into shares, at a fixed price, at an incredible price, and this conversion of the loan into shares would be if they could not repay these 166 million. You had a interest rate - basically, the troika told you to put it, but you signed it, as you signed the old paper you were given - 8%. Piraeus Bank couldn't pay off 8% interest. In other words, what you signed had in it the seed of what is being done today. Because the interest rate was so high that Piraeus Bank could not pay it back today. This is how this fraud against the Greek public was specified. They executed her today. You signed it in autumn 2015. Unfortunately, this pattern is everywhere and it's proud. Your governments, of PASOK initially, of the New Democracy - PASOK later, of SYRIZA, do not account for the public costs if they are the predators to save a fine, a loss of a euro, the loss of even one euro income. All of you for the few who don't give a damn to anyone, at least not to the Greek public, not to the Greek people. It is not, Minister, only your consistency in serving the interests of rodents that it impresses. It's the consequence of the tools you've been carrying out. Instead of having a legal framework, so that the appetites of predators and oligarchs are assembled, we have a legal framework that adapts to the predators' appetites. This is the pattern we see with all the governments of the Memorandum. You offer invaluable pieces of Greek land - and the same, Halkidiki, Greek - and you alienate them from the state. In Halkidiki recently, a few days ago, you gave the right to "ELDORADO" to do what he would do in any banana. It's like you got this piece of Halkidiki land and made it export, send it by email somewhere. You do the same in the Greek, in the heart of Athens. You gave Mr Latsis the right to establish - that is what you wanted to do, by reading your original bill - a fenced little oligarch society, something between the green belt established by the 'Halibarton', by Dick Chaney for anyone who remembers, in the center of the occupied by the American Baghdad and the fenced neighborhoods in Rio de Janeiro, where rich local oligars are tampered behind the huge walls, hoping to keep out the hordes of the hunger of the side of the favelas. I am pleased that due to the intervention of Mera25 and the tabling of an amendment you have put water into the fence wine and you refer to it as a temporary one. We'll see how temporary it is. We'll watch you, we're here. Good to change that, even under pressure, but this fence, you know, is a requirement of the oligger pulling and moving your threads. Let's see how long it's going to be. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens you see us, the Greek is a timeless universal scandal that is the definition of interplay. There is no better definition of interlocutory. In the name of investment, the greatest disinvestment in the history of Attica since ancient times is attempted. A unique opportunity to atone all the modern Greeks together for the crime of cementation in Athens was sacrificed on the altar of oligarchy. You are speaking on market terms about something that no market can and must not be allowed to appreciate. Today an invaluable value is being destroyed for an incomplete price, which you have made sure will be incomplete by persecuting all serious investors. That's why there was one. In principle, not one auction with one participant, the wonderful Mr. Latsis. Ten years, now, the stones are also laughing at all your governments. It was admitted and MPs of the hard memorial core. Mimis Androylakis here, in 2014, - I will read something that I took from the Minutes of the House - said: "The Latsis house replaces the public and in the course - he says - he will find the money. If he finds it. If he does not find it, if he considers it inconsistent, he already has the exit routes through the contract at no particular cost. This is the secret of this contract." Mr. Androylakis said that. "Maybe whenever he wants to go, if he sees that this story doesn't come out. And that is what one is saying..." - he refers to himself, Mr. Mimis Androullakis - "...which is in favour of exploitation, which has no utopia and romance green," unlike us in Mera25, I am supplementing. "This is the story," says Mimis Androylakis. 'You cannot tell us here that we will either have garbage and unemployment or this convention.' 'What contract is this?' asks Mr Androylakis. "This contract is the photograph of the photograph. And why wasn't another foreign investor found? Because what does the contract say to the foreigner, supposedly, an investor that you're supposed to bring? Yes, best man, to get in here you have to go through Latsi's band." These are the words of Mr Mimi Androullakis, a government MP, a Member of the House then, here, in Parliament's plenary. "so, do you want to come in? You're going through this street. And the other guy tells you. Why would I come in then? So here's the auction with a participant!'. Aren't you all ashamed together? Auction with a participant and consider it an investment? Another MEP this time tabled this question as a question to the European Commission. I read from its text in the European Commission: ‘It is noted that the main conditions of the tender have never been publicly known, that the GOI does not fall within the public sector, and that the choice of the method of privatisation by selling shares does not fall under the provisions of European law relating to competitions concerning works, goods and services and concessions. Therefore, given that the tender for one of the best and most important assets of the Greek people has come to an end with only one offer..." - I am not just saying it - "While the government claims that Greece is again attracting investors, all possible questions need to be answered in order to have full transparency in relation to its conduct." Guess who wrote that? Minister, can you guess who wrote this? Thoracics. Does the name mean anything to you? Tsakakis, Member of the European Parliament of the New Democracy! Come back here, you guys here at SYRIZA, recount the night of the referendum along with New Democracy and PASOK, say "yes" - so? - Of course, Marxist people you are, you took Marx's chip, which said "these are my principles, if you don't like them, I have others". Of course, it wasn't Karl Marx, it was Graucho Marx who you took that night of the referendum, and with this shithole you confirmed all the skeptical democratic procedures that said that if democracy could protect citizens from the oligarchy, it would have been abolished. So, what happens a few months later, there around October, after your conspiracy? Exercise criminal prosecution against three members of the TIAD for scandalous sale and hire of twenty-eight real estates. And here comes Mr. Tsakalotos - your Minister of Finance - and legislates the impunity of the members of the board of directors of TIAD. I was listening to Mr Tsipras before accusing you of giving the impunity to the executives of the Financial Settlement Order of the CFS - as I say - of the Financial Stability Fund to blame you for what they started. There, you started this! Mr. Tsipras spoke thirty a minute and twenty-six seconds - I timed it - for the CFS - suddenly what you turned into the lever with which Piraeus cost so much money to the Greek State today in the way I mentioned before, so I will not tire you by repeating it - for the crime of the Greek around nine minutes Mr. Tsipras, to say what? To compete here with the New Democracy, who did it better, who increased the value of Mr Latsi's land more quickly and more efficiently. That's the fight between you two. Ladies and gentlemen, the pattern to which I referred before now will focus on it a little more on the face of this wonderful man, Mr Latsis. Whether we look at "The Mall" in Maroussi, either we look at Eurobank, or we look at "ELLENIC PETPELAIA", or we look at the Greek model, we see a storm of scandals in favour of one of the national pimps, as the former Prime Minister, Kostas Karamanlis called them. For 'The Mall', indeed, Mr Karamanlis - in his honor! - as Chief of Officership then, before, he also had a certain assessment of the public's damage. He had appreciated the public's damage in favour of Mr. Latsis at 146 billion drachmas. Somehow, though, guys - let me say this - when you come to things - all of you! - as if by magic where you were seeing a scandal, you suddenly see an investment, where you see and talk about strife, where you talk about opportunities, where you build the little master, you discover a well-functioning market. Mr President, I will submit to the Minutes of the House a memorandum accompanying the petition to the prosecutor for corruption by Mrs Sakova, who has had a full record of these scandals, 'The Mall', Eurobank, 'ELPE' and 'Greek' since 2015. Since then, of course, crime has become worse. But because it's a very good summary, it may take some of you, some of you. [[At this point, the Secretary of Mera25 Mr.Giannis Varoufakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Crime is lasting. You're all involved in the rulers. Everything not to pay 1 euros today, the "ELDORADO" yesterday, Piraeus the other day and as if it were not enough to finance all this in the most dirty and anti-social way. Let's say, to build the complex in the Greek, not to put your hand in the pocket, you gave it together, SYRIZA and New Democracy - and don't start fighting who did it better, together you did it very well - license for skyscrapers, casinos on the wave, not far from where the Democrat rehearsed his "Philippis". Is that right? This is gambling along with the plot. The gambling, this vicious son of specula and father of despair, who gains enormous authority over people who, in the midst of slavery, lose hope, this financial pillar of mafia, is gambling, from Las Vegas to the privatized OPAP and now the Greek model, where you are going forth with Donald Trump's development model, which he applied in the same way - can be better implemented by you - in Atlantic City. And whoever doesn't know, look to see Mr. Trump's business and casinos and the development process that he brought to New Jersey in Atlantic City. The only lever you've had since the country went bankrupt in 2010 and put it in the debt of the memoirs - the only lever! - it's developing the underdevelopment brought about by gambling. Ladies and gentlemen, the connections of all the things that you do today, those that you did when you were PASOK yet, not the Change - transaction movement, what are you? - SYRIZA, these connections make an eye. Your complicity is an eye, we've seen it today. There was no cockfight, no noble talking in front of our eyes and we heard it with our ears about who was Mr. Latsi's best servant. That's what we saw today. All of you! And since I'm talking about gambling, it's impossible for me not to refer to what happened when I was at the Treasury in that five-month period. I would like to know how many of you from SYRIZA - of course, a good colleague I have here, I imagine you may hear it, and the rest of you who are not here - you knew what Mr Drasakis and the Vice-President initially behind my back, but at some point in front of my eyes in favour of the OPAP and against the Gaming Committee, with which we were struggling with Antonis Sergiotis at the time when he was the chairman of the Committee on Games to restrain what Costas Karamanlis had quite rightly said that this should never be done. Remember your former Prime Minister who said "I will not let Greece become an endless VLTs casino" that they wanted to give to the OPCW? These VLTs were tried by the troika along with the Czech company that had the OPAP to send all over Greece, when I was at the Ministry and I had a brake on them. I couldn't hurt that contract. You signed it, basically you had given them fourteen thousand permits to fill each neighborhood of Greece with a small despair casino for the poor Greeks, for the poor Greeks of the memorials. I couldn't do it. But what did I do? With Antonis Steriotis and the Committee on Games, we have set a 60 euros damage limit, so that no pensioner can go to one of these chamoisies, now called "OPAP Play", which, especially you of SYRIZA, go through and see how they made them. They look like houses of tolerance. Go see out of an OPAP Play his architecture and aesthetics. Actually, I'm too hard on the tolerant houses. There's workers there, they're working, right? There is an ancient profession. With what you did, who took their own contract and through the Vice-President of Mr. Drasakis, you have undermined the attempt to set a limit, that the other cannot lose over 60 euros a day, which again much is for Greece of bankruptcy. The OPAP people went to eat me alive. I've made them another condition, have to declare their VLT someone to play in these VLTs. Mr. Yiannis Drasakis, along with the entire Vice-Chairmanship team, were also working with the Czech mafia to undermine that effort. Once I left, you undermined her and we have 'OPAP Play' everywhere, we have gambling. So they build skyscrapers on the wave of Mr. Latsis, you built those too. Together you have established within Greece's "debtor house" gambling as the only source of development, the underdevelopment of this people, this country. It's a disgrace to you, SYRIZA colleagues. Because of them I was expecting, I didn't expect it from you. My mistake, mea cuulpa, I declare it. From a nation of waitresses of northern Europe, who we feared we would become and didn't want to become, you transform us into a nation of bankers, whose greatest dream is when their children grow up, perhaps even become crucifixes in Mr. Latsi's casino. Or even supermarkets to keep your fences. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Banana-mobile development model you have in mind a universal regime that reminds of Baptista before Castle in Cuba and of course Donald Trump. Will anyone really warn those who go into Mr. Latsi's casino about what Albert Einstein once said, that it's impossible to win on a roulette's table, only if you rob the table before Roulette robs you? She's a Albert Einstein, not me. Of course no one. If anyone dared to say that, you'd definitely consider it an anti-development propaganda. Your mass deception, of course, will do the opposite. And they already do. Today, I am sure the channels will talk about the 'big investment' it is starting, about the 'big hope'. This is what you do, you sell hope to the Greek people on credit. That's your gambling. Debt, gambling, lying, at the service of oliggers type John Paulson, Piraeus, "ELDORADO" "FRAPORT", Latsis. This is your development model. Debate, gambling and lying, the three roads leading to the destruction of a society are the most deceptive, the path of lies, the most certain, the path of debt, and the fastest, the way of gambling. You are running Greece rapidly on all three roads at the same time, unfortunately with an arable Europe, a European Union, which does everything to push you on this road and to imitate you in the way of growth and underdevelopment. We were supposed to go - in Europe to get away from the Oriental lisverism and instead, bahtishism proved to be a high western art merciless troika. Who is following the mask scandals and other types of medication in Berlin right now, your brother party, the Christian Democrats? With middle representatives here in Greece on the radical right - wasn't that what you used to call liberal radicalism? - the Social Democratic Republic of PASOK and of course the so-called'renewal' Left. Unfortunately, we have a café government within a European Union, whose northern European oligarchy, not only covers and supports with touching commitment the anxieties, inefficiency and immunity of the most unscrupulous oligarchs in the south, but unfortunately it also erods Northern Europe itself with just such practices. We are living in a European Union which today, at the moment we are talking, play Russian roulette with the souls and the lives and bodies of people. We have a President of the Commission who, in order to cover up its personal corruption and nonsense, like her associates, does not hesitate, listen to me, to start a trade war with Britain on the basis of vaccines. The first in history of trade war that will have human victims, thousands of people who die. Why are they going to die? Because what Mrs Ursula von der Lyen does, if she is allowed to do so, and if you do not stop her with a veto at last, Mr Staikoura, this ban on the importation of ASTRAZENCA vaccines produced in the Netherlands, Belgium and Britain, can at most be delayed by a week in the case of vaccinations in Britain. In Britain over 50% of the population have been vaccinated. In the European Union, however, because if we do so, then Britain will also imitate Brussels and they will also ban exports - our already failed and late vaccination programme will go back three months. Someone needs to pick up this Mrs Ursula von der Lyen. Now demand her resignation as a small sign that there may be accountability in Brussels. But where do you do that? You, even today - I heard you before, I was in my office, but I heard you, Mr Stavura - you dared once more bring back in 2015. I am sure you will rise again and say 'What does the man who has ruined the banks say?' I have told you and I have told you to stop being cowards. I asked you to examine things. Do you want to do just for 2015? Make it just for 2015. I say we do it for all the memorials, from the first to the one you bring. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] As long as you don't, every time you refer to 2015, make yourself laugh. Expose, Mr. Stakoura. Stop it. Of course, I know why you're doing this, I know why you don't dare do the board of inquiry. Because you know that there the real facts will appear, the Greek people will see what really happened. After all, the Greek people can hear them. At euroleaks.gr you can find what was happening at the Eurogroup at the time, because we are the ones who promote transparency and through this transparency, it seems who supported Greek interests, as well as European interests in there. What you are afraid of, but also feared by SYRIZA, the leadership of SYRIZA - I am not referring to his basis - is that if we really see what is going on about all these issues, the oligarchy, Piraeus, the TSF, all that you have entered, you support, you build, in the minds of the citizen, and indeed your own fans, and even neo-democratics, there will be a question: How much more will we have in Athens 'Yes Men' governments, who dare not criticise European leaders, so that they affect not only our people but the whole of Europe? Ladies and gentlemen, in our previous debate here in Parliament, the other day, we tabled 25 specific complaints in the case of "ELDORADO", the "ELELENIKIKI CHRYS". If we had been wrong, it would have been a pleasure for us as democrats to show ours through the media debate, to have dialogue, to have research journalism, to judge, but to be judged in the context of serious journalism. Instead, they believe in the doctrine that silence is gold for the fewers, the media of mass deception, the fungus, and what happened, the scandal, the crime of "ELDORADO", as today - I tell you again - nothing will be discussed about the Greek. So one question will be mistaken over the country: How much more immunity will be given to those who uninvaluately grant invaluable pieces of Greek sovereignty to "ELDORADO", to Latsis, to every turtle oligarch? One thing is certain, this question will not be drowned forever. The citizen will wonder at some point: How much longer will I stand up for channels that keep quiet for what is happening against me in this Parliament and in my name? How much longer will a politician be making undisturbed or undisturbed to the government so that Mr Latsis and his family, Mr Polson and the predatory funds, the ELDORADO and the PPP do not lose the opportunity to grab the last euro of public property, not to give them what is left of our common heritage? How much longer am I going to tolerate - will the citizen think at some point, can you not avoid this - governments that invest in disinvestment? How much longer will I leave the partnership of New Democracy and SYRIZA with the gambling mafia, from the luxurious casinos to the sad 'OPAP play' in every neighborhood to deliver the country and the people to gambling, as Kostas Karamanlis had predicted? How much longer am I going to experience socialism for Piraeus, predators, clinicians, collegeers, ELDORADO, CISCO and Mr. Latsis, while small and medium-sized people, doctors and teachers, students and artists, women and old people are thrown into the Roman arena of the hardest capitalism? Great George Bernard Shaw once said that in the casino, in organized gambling, many have to lose so that few have won. The answer to the question 'How much more' It's simple: As much as it takes so that many can take their luck in their hands. Mera25 we are here to help them do just that: to ask 'how much more'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Varoufakis. Have you asked for the floor, Mr. Stakoura?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u106	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u107	Please be brief, please, as soon as possible, because we must start with speakers as well. The MPs have been waiting for hours to start the list. Mr Georgiadis had also asked for the floor. Shall we take it, as we have come to understand, after the speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u108	Half an hour I've been waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u109	In any case, you would have had the floor after the first five speakers, as we had heard. Do you insist, after Mr Stakoura, that I give you the floor for a three-minute, for an intervention you requested, or will you be assigned to the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u110	You give the floor to the five colleagues and I will make my speech once and for all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u111	Okay, good. Thank you. Here you go, Mr Stakoura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will try to respond to all the modules I have heard from two political leaders. Finally, if anyone sees the terminology, the phrases that have been followed, it seems why they have been collated, but also why they have many common features: 'incapables', 'fakes', 'truths', 'government', 'government-coffee'. I'm returning all these characterizations. We will continue the path of responsibility, seriousness and moderateness towards the slippery path of irresponsibility of Mr Tsipras, the'responsible disobedience' of Mr Varoufakis, the risk of all this - but let us not forget - and the risk of overtransmissioning the virus. I heard Mr. Tsipras talking about the core of today's debate about the bill. I suppose you hadn't informed him that you voted 'yes' in principle, because all the time I was listening to judge provisions of the draft law, when you voted 'yes' in principle. I thought and thought that you had informed him of the debate that took place both in committee and in plenary. I heard Mr. Tsipras say that he had essentially resolved all the issues in the Greek and that it was a matter of a few days for the Ministries, for the Government, for Mr. Adonni Georgiadis, for the Ministry of Finance to resolve matters. I filed a painting. I said save us some time, but after you challenge me, I'll read the painting. SYRIZA's rapporteur said she took eight initiatives in four and a half years to unlock the project. I will present you with twenty-four initiatives in a year and a half to unlock the project: the adoption of four joint ministerial decisions to place and implement the Integrated Development Plan for the Greek. Publication of the decision of the Land register to correct the external limit and the real estate derogations of the former Athens airport. Open a tendering procedure for the licensing of a casino operator. Resolution of a legislative act on the delivery and management of public and public spaces. Agreement between the Parties - Ministry of Shipping, Ministry of National Defence, TEAD - on the conclusion of a programme contract. A working group on the drafting of the regulations we are debating today is set up. Actions to remove existing public and private users from the property. Resolution and publication in the FEK of arrangements for settlement - legalising the arbitrary buildings of the metropolitan park. The Ministry of Finance Agreement - SWEDEN - LAMDA on a full ownership distribution plan. It is two pages that we have done in eighteen months, so that we can unlock the point where you said you had supposedly reached a very mature stage. I have heard you both speak - Mr Tsipras in fact - about the assessments of growth, about the recession. We do not triumph for 8.2%, but 8.2% is much better than the assessments made within and outside Greece and is a success primarily of Greek society. I shall, however, submit two reports in the Minutes. One is Mr Tsipras's summer season, on 29 July, before the second wave: 'The crucial thing, with which I would like to close my remark, is that we should not overlook the fact that the change in the correlation between grants and loans, at the same time that we will have a recession this year, which will be close to 12%...'. 12% was the estimate of Officer Response in July before the second wave. And of course, all right, Mr. Varoufakis said, anyway, about 15%. I'm filing the relevant documents. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as health is concerned, we are still not triumphant. It's a difficult situation. I developed it in my protology. But we must also see what is true outside Greece. And I'm filing the table with the number of cases per million population. And we will see that Greece compared to other countries had a better record. This cannot be triumphed. It is, however, proof that we are doing our best to limit the adverse effects on the health, economic and social spheres. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I heard about the ITHs. I have tabled in my speech what has been done for both the ITHs and the recruitments. More than ten thousand recruits of medical and nursing personnel have been made compared to 2019. There have been a thousand two hundred permanent doctors hired for the past year and a half. The number of beds in intensive care units has more than doubled compared to 2019. And yes, the health ministry's budget has been strengthened in relation to the previous government. I would remind you of the information we have shown in the budget debate. 2014: 4,750. 2015: 4,415. 2016: 4.377. SYRIZA's health ministry's budget was falling all the time. 2017: 4,321. 2018: 3,849, at the minimum of the last five years in government SYRIZA. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2020: 4,043 and 786 million additives for COVID. And when I hear about a lower budget in 2021, you obviously put COVID in, because otherwise the budget is 4.257. And I will repeat in my dentistry, which I am now doing, that, in fact, what the Ministry of Health is asking for outside the budget to strengthen it, in order to strengthen public health, public health, public health structures, will have it, as it was and will have it, for the self test, which will all be paid from the state budget, as, on the basis of the amendment, will have it for the ten additional ambulances that will be provided by the Ministry of Finance, essentially the Greek citizens, the Greek society. Greece is the first to pan-Europeanise the easy disposal and widespread use of these tests for the weekly self-monitoring of citizens. And this is added to the thousands of tests that are constantly carried out for epidemiological surveillance by the EGE. The mass control of the population - I would remind you - is a recommendation from the National Committee on Public Health and, in contrast to other countries, it is all covered by the state budget. And I conclude with the theme of Piraeus Bank. I'm going to repeat the position that we made as the Ministry of Finance 3-11-2020. I would remind you of what we said at the time and also today: "SYRIZA returns to the crime scene, irresponsibly and intriguingly, from ignorance or micro-political feasibility, he intervenes, with the presumption that he is allegedly concerned about the Greek banking system. Let's not worry. The Government will, as it has so far effectively defended, defend the short and medium-term public interest in the Greek banking system.’ I wonder how Mr Tsipras came back today for Piraeus in 2020 when there was no communication other than SYRIZA at that time. You know - and we have said so - that the European Central Bank and SSM have not allowed Piraeus Bank to take concrete action. That's why there was never a statement from the officer's side. You asked the CFSF to have rights to an increase in equity and we gave them two weeks ago. We followed what we consider right and you agreed until relatively recently until you made another "Objection Transformation", saying then, "It is the government's duty to prevent the Greek State from further underestimating the position of the Greek State by a future increase in the bank's share capital without the participation of the CFS". We have therefore given the right to participate and we will see how the situation will always develop for the benefit of the Greek economy and the Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u113	Minister, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u114	But you will allow me to tell you that this criticism is too much for today's Census. I will testify for the Minutes - so that we do not forget - what Alexis Tsipras said on 5-10-2015: 'This is the last opportunity for the resolution of the Greek banks. The problem of red loans will be dealt with definitively. Euklidis Tsakalotos said: "By 31-12-2015, the banks will be recapitalised and all red loans will have been dealt with. And what did we find? We found the red loans at EUR 75.3 billion or as a percentage of loans at exactly the level that we delivered the previous government in 2014. In 43.5% we delivered the amount of red loans as a percentage of total loans and in June 2019 was 43.6%. You would solve until December 2015 the issue of red loans definitively! I am tabling the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakoras, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I'm closing up with the top one. Are you talking about the value of the share in any bank? Should we talk specifically about Piraeus? You received the valuation of the participation of the CFSF, i.e. the Greek State, at EUR 11.6 billion and in June 2019 this was EUR 1.6 billion. You took her at 11.6 and handed her over to 1.6 billion. You took Piraeus to 3.7 billion euros and delivered it to 0.35. This is the definition of the robbery Mr. Tsipras said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, this House is aware of the fact that it has been tabled - as had been announced by the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece - the request for a roll-call vote on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance. We start with the list, with Mr Charalambos Papadimitriou from New Democracy first speaking. Then there is Mr. Flamouraris, Mr. Scandalidis, Mrs. Manolakos, Mr. Mylonakis, and then the Minister, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, I would like to speak for thirty seconds, just to speed up the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u117	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u118	It should simply be added to the title of the draft law, due to the acceptance of the amendments accepted, the words 'and other provisions'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u119	Good. Mr. Papadimitriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Although the truth is that six hours after today's debate, I do not remember exactly what I wanted to say to you, I think that once we should discuss this, from the Bureau, that this kind of show, that the Chief should enter, that some Members should speak, that the Chief has found that they are running in social media and that he can win with them some likes on Facebook or even twenty seconds on the channels - which he otherwise swears - that the Members of Parliament should applaud and then go on the way out, it is another method of sabotaging the House, since the previous call for sabotage of Parliament's work has not passed. I think, Mr President, that it would be very interesting - because I understand that this is the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure - to set the objective of the Rules to be complied with properly, that is, to keep the time that you give the Heads of State when they speak. Because, in any case, it is partly - you will allow me to see - an insult to the Members who are waiting here, but also a very bad picture for Parliament, because at the moment they are sixteen Members here, with the exception of Mr Polakis who comes in - coming out, to attend the debate that we have in Parliament today, which is important. You will allow me to remind you, especially in the Civic Opposition, or to paraphrase and keep the romantic part from what Che Guevara said, that what Greece, ladies and gentlemen, needs in the Opposition, is one and two and three and many works like that of the Greek. And that's exactly what we're gonna do. Twenty years have passed since it could have begun. Twenty years have passed since the airport and the planes left there and went to Spata, as twenty are the kilometres of the route that separate Nea Faliro from Vuliagmeni, the width of which is now a refreshment without precedent. And it is the one that you have either delayed, or indifferent to it in the name of allegedly local interests or - even more allegedly - of the environment. I believe, Minister, that we will have to wait until the end of the day to see if, in the end, the SYRIZA party has returned to realism and see what they will vote on. Because Mr Tsipras was saying - and he obviously has not forgotten, I suppose you will clarify it, but I do not see here that there is a consensus on something which is self-evident - that in the Greek case the alternative to the Greek, which is a part of collective racing consciousness, a landmark race. That's it. Remember them. It is right that the Minister who now reminds you that what you have done was mainly action which, in the end, not only solved the issue, but they did not go any further at all. It was perhaps ashes in the eyes of some who thought that sometime you'd come to the way of logic and pragmatism. But in fact, you have not just wasted time, but you have created even more obstacles so that we can now move on. It took more than twenty actions, which Mr Stagioras mentioned. However, it will take another time for us to be able to put it forward and, above all, to overcome people's minds - in my opinion - where the poison is going to go, that if we do not decide in this country what we want, if we do not decide how we will make use of the state's involvement where the state has nothing else to do, only to contribute to real capital - because the land is one of the main chapters that you have to make to do a job of this wide range - if we do not do so, as we do in Greek and in many other cases, we will not manage to get the country ahead. There won't be any jobs. There will be no income. I understand that some may prefer poverty, because among poor people they can be distinguished. But that is not the purpose, at least, of a majority within the parliament which has given the government a mandate to move forward. It was the Mitsotakis government, it was May 1990 when Stefanos Manos came out - I was not sure of the date and I looked into it - and announced that the Eleftherios Venizelos airport would go for self-financing. From that moment on, we could get the job. It was thirty years ago. We could have started it. It was in 2001 when the airport left. Twenty years ago, it could have started with a thousand and we didn't. And the responsibilities are obviously not of the Opposition. It's also of the League. Obviously. We had to go faster. When will we finally have an opposition in Greece, which strengthens the good side and delays or explains to those who may object - and all must be debated, I have no objection to that - what is the reality? In 2012, when the law was passed on to make use of the old airport of the Greek, the space we are discussing, you voted against it. In 2014 you received. The Samara government was able to sign the concession contract on November 14th at the TEAD. From there on, nothing. It is a model that I wish to see and repeat again! And because it is something that we have never seen before in Greece, it makes sense to have extraordinary forecasts and specific forecasts. From this vote, which I hope we will do in a few hours, there will be a new model that I want you to think about in opposition again. Either we get it and we go further or you'll have to give your children and our children an answer, because they won't have jobs here and they will have to become immigrants outside their country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. The next speaker is Mr Alexandros Flabouraris from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, I really thought Mr Papadimitriou would refer to the real problems that exist since this attempt to exploit the Greek was started. Therefore, in my opinion, we need to speak with truths and remember that in 2001, when the airport left and went to "Eleftherios Venizelos", all Athens, but also all Greece, what it hoped and wanted was actually a lung that will be dominated by the green, a lung that will highlight what was in existence and discovered in the space of the six thousand acres, that is, archaeological sites, historical buildings, architectural monuments. We hoped that the space would be also visited, so that there really would be a green and breathing lung for Attica and especially for that area. Since then, since 2001, while these were in the intentions of all Greeks, until 2012 absolutely nothing has happened. It seems that our indebted country has been dominated since 2010. The rulings then tried to create the conditions so that they could meet the arrogant debt that had been created all these years by the governments - and we know who those governments were, I do not want to mention, everyone knows - and they were looking for revenue. And they thought they found the revenues by selling the silver. One of the silver, then, was the Greek. That is why, since 2012, which was voted on - and we did not vote on it, you are right about that - the 2014 Convention is coming. You know very well - and the whole world knows - that it is a contract that was not effective. It was a contract in which a topography was dominated which had absolutely nothing written. It was like a story, so that there could really be this convention which had strong colonial characteristics. We come in 2015 and we get this contract which was with those traits that I told you about. In other words, there was no maturity for the project. At the same time, there is the prerequisite for the assessment of the country's compliance with the memorandum. So we got a contract with these weights off the top. Nevertheless, as you know, we tried through negotiations to reach a new contract in 2016, a contract which was a substantial overthrow of the convention that existed before. We gained a lot of things through the negotiations, which the investor actually contributed, because it seems to have realised that the 2014 contract was not only effective, but also had so much in favour of investors that were really not effective. So we come and win some things. I don't want to talk about it because the time passes. I'll testify what we've earned. We won over thirty things from the negotiations. I'll give it to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Flavouraris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] What do we do next? We're trying to grow the property in order to welcome the investment. It started and almost completed in our hands. In addition to all the issues that had to be addressed, since they did not even exist, we had the troika calling for progress at any cost, but also for investors at this stage, at this critical stage, not always to cooperate on the substance of the matter, taking advantage of the pressure from the Troika. However, in record time the institutional ripening of the Greek has proceeded without our Government dismissing public goods. We must give credit to all the political and service actors of the ministries who have shielded and advanced the investment at such a rapid pace. I am also tabling the Minutes - because it does not take time - to keep them for the record, what we have done all this time, until one CSU of the three, which was referring to the metropolitan park of two thousand acres, was a prerequisite for the next two CSUs to come out. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Flavouraris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] And we come on July 7th to hand over to the new government that came out after the elections. And what do we have as the first act that has caused some problems, especially to the rulers? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Foreign investors left with the new government. While the government was the one that didn't want investment and the entry of foreign capital in the country, we heard...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Flambury, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u124	I'd like a minute and a half if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u125	Let him finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u126	Yes, Mr President, let him finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u127	I should like to leave Mr Flumuraris, but there are another thirty-seven speakers. There are parliamentary representatives, ministers who will want to intervene, so we will go at 12 o'clock at night! Show an understanding, too. Seven minutes, you know it. All right, there is a tolerance from the Bureau at all times, but it will be at the expense of the next speakers. Carry on, Mr. Flambury.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u128	Wait a minute, Mr. President. So I say that the first really negative message was the departure of foreign investors, without any responsibility for us because we were no longer in the government. I will leave what the New Democracy Government has done all these years, characterised by various amendments to the draft laws, but which have not yet led to the start of this project, entering the famous bulldozers, except those who entered for the collapse of the five buildings, which were made a few months ago. And I come to today's bill to refer to two, three things very quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u129	Look, Mr Flavourari, we have reached nine minutes, with an interruption with the responsibility of the Bureau. But now we're going to start talking about the bill? How tolerated can the Bureau be, how much tolerance can we give?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u130	Wait a minute and I'll be done. One thing is about distribution. We need to see whether '30-70' is real and there is no such excess that has been mentioned by other speakers. The second point is the fence, which, with your amendment, I think is largely correct. However, I should like to point out that the construction fence is like a given one, so we don't need this whole fence thing. And the third issue, which is crucial in my opinion, is that it actually passes through the window if, for example, they borrow with a pledge of 70% and at some point withdraw, then the right of the surface comes to the Greek State, which takes with it the debts that the previous managers have made of 70%. So we get the endless 70% and the debts that we will have to pay for. So what do we got? And the work of not ending and the debts of paying them. I think that this really must - and you have the possibility - with a regulation to correct it, that 70% of those who receive a loan will not be able to pledge, but 30% of whom also own the property. Excuse me, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u131	Good. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u132	We may have been late to take the floor because of the Heads' speeches, but we have had the opportunity to see the consensus, but also the competition of the SYRIZA Officerial Representation with the New Democracy Government on who will first serve the profitability and privileges of business groups at the expense of working and people's interests. That was something. The two major 'objectives', as you call them, investment - privatisations in recent years you have voted for New Democracy and SYRIZA, and of course you continue it with this bill, because this is your strategy in favour of business groups and against people's interests. One was the concession - privatization of the port of Piraeus to the Chinese monopoly of "COSCO" and the other of the Greek group "LAMDA" which is part of the general planning by rejuvenating the coastal front of Attica, creating the Athenian casino rivet, skyscrapers of two hundred meters - the height of the Acropolis! - commercial centres and others. It will be a new closed city in the city that will cover incomes high, new luxurious dwellings, golf and others, while the creation of the metropolitan park in the center of the investment will be the green yard of the new city of money. Although SYRIZA protested about the fence, he swallowed it and voted for it as his own work, because it is his work. This is the greatest urban renewal in Europe, which will bring enormous profits to the inhabitants of the wider region, since you are taking them into a huge free space - a lung, which could be used for people's needs of sport, green, health, recreation, etc. It would be for everyone. Buildings that will be built will exclude the coastline with serious impacts of visual nuisance and the microclimate of the area, as described in detail in the strategic environmental impact study. Loss on the coast. The new aquarium is located in the marine area with protected reefs and underwater meadows. The environmental study describes the impact of port projects and its construction work. The commercial centres to be created will shrink many small businesses into food, tourism and services. That's right. In view of the Groups' profits, what are people's needs? They're going to the trash. That's what you're doing. The "Greek" project is a model of classivity, inequality of this deeply exploitive character of capitalist development. It has a negative impact on all aspects of the lives of the workers of the southern sector, but also on the wider of Attica. You are talking about jobs, hiding the conditions of austerity and in order to implement them, you bring us this bill with the multiple derogations and exceptions from the existing laws, which too serve capital. Promote exceptions to any environmental and cultural protection left. The entire investment of the Greek is a derogation. Building gift permits to the investor by way of derogation from the legislation with pre-authorisation of building permits with effect for three years, and for all others it is one year. For environmental authorisation, a decision shall be taken within 10 working days of the meeting of the Central Authorisation Council. If this period has elapsed then it goes aloud, without any limitation. Similarly for work outside the building facilities and development areas of the park there is no need to issue a licence, and the relevant study obliges the Hellenic Office to approve it within 15 days. Otherwise it is considered approved. A procedure shall be established to certify the completion of demolition operations by way of derogation from the provisions applicable to other construction work. Conditions are introduced by way of derogation from the general legislation on fence construction within the metropolitan pole of Greek. And then you're talking about free access! You're kidding. The licence does not provide for building permits and there is no place - but really nowhere - approved by the Ministry of Culture. Shame on you! There are similar situations in Piraeus with the "COSCO" with the construction of a cruise pier in the Piera, which was funded by 95% from the Attica Region, which destroys the entire area, turning it from settlement to industrial recreation, to win the industrial monopoly. The destructive consequences of the project are already manifested by the construction phase. They do not take elementary measures to protect public health and the environment, although it was bound by the environmental conditions of the project. For the provocative illegality of the Chinese monopoly, there has been an official condemnation from the Region of Attica, while until now there has been no control of balming materials by ELCETH, which have caused blurredness in seawater, threatening protected cultural monuments and possibly creating environmental pollution that will be channelled through the marine food chain to man. Of course, from the Ministry of the Environment, although we have tabled a question for three months now, we have not received a reply and have provoked the Government to authorize two new construction sites of 'COSCO' in Drapetsona, at a distance of breath from the city, next to work dwellings, for the needs of the new port of Piraeus, with direct consequences for public health and the environment, since a passenger port is transformed into a factory. Finally, this shows that many need to be ruptured with what urban political forces declare. This requires the organised counter-attack to claim the modern needs of the people and their children, through the socialisation of the land and the means of production and by central scientific design in favour of the people. We in this race will be ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u133	The next speaker is Mr Mylonakis Antonis from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since this morning's follow-up to the debate on this convention has given me an impression on why SYRIZA is protesting with the Change Movement since both parties support this convention. We have heard the peculiarities of the contract. In order not to consume time, however, because the special speaker of the Greek Solution has said so in detail, Mr Villardos - I think it has been quite understandable - I will say, Minister, that this convention, which you have brought here now, I think is far beyond a letonium. Who is the company that undertakes to build this whole project? One company in 36,000 euros, the HELLENICON GLOBAL, which is based in Luxembourg. Why does the LAMDA DEVELOPMENT not undertake the project? Is there a problem? Let's figure out who they're gonna make money for. How much money are they going to put in? Do we know? Where will this money come from? From the company's EUR 36,000 share capital? Are we all right? In order for the world to understand and not to laugh at each other, the 'domestic troika' has done its job well. SYRIZA, New Democracy and Change Movement have come to the final straight, because they are getting closer to all the issues: the economy, national issues, illegal immigration. Everywhere, hand-hand. They throw some seeds on each other just so there's something to say. You are constantly invoking, Mr Ministers, the public interest. You said our country would win several billion, Minister. You're always invoking the public interest. What billions will be won? Where? From HIAD, which belongs to the superstition? All the company's profits, whatever it gets, they'll go to the lenders. The same goes for the Financial Stability Fund. You have seen what is now happening with Piraeus Bank and the "NATIONAL Asphalistic". This is what happens today. Let's say it in a minute. When we have this company from Luxembourg, governed by the law of the state, only Greek interests are not. When you give the area clean, without protecting the rights of the State and allowing the distribution of use without authorisation by the Greek State, what is this called? A win for the Greek state? When foreign companies are going to redeem overlapping land use, financing from credit institutions and what the TDI is taking to creditors, since that is where it belongs, this contract, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is not beneficial to the Greek public, and this must have a good time and people understand it. I'm not saying he's late for the start. Mr. Georgiadis, the dear Minister's friend, said before the elections that a week's time will come in. Almost two years have passed, and the only bulldozers that came out have been two teas that were financed by the Greek State to break down the warehouses. If you think this is how you fool, you walk the Greek people, go on. But you've ridden a reed. I've told you before. You've ridden a reed and moved on. You don't count on anyone. You're lying, you're provoking your lies and you think everything's going well. The potential benefits, unfortunately, will not be passed on to the public, but the GOI, as the real estate and acquisition titles have come to this. And the HIAD is controlled, as we have said, by the superstition, which means that for all revenues it will be committed to reducing public debt, which is rising. There's no way this public debt could come down. He's getting up all the time. The public will therefore not be won either in the long term or in the short term, and the possibility of using the company and future investors as a guarantee for possible funding is also provocative, Minister, because they do not commit that the forthcoming funding will be exploited for the Greek and, secondly, it will involve real estate of the State which has been transferred in white by the Greek State. This is therefore a sale of the property, for which a clear price will not be fixed because of the volatility of the contract. And because we have to understand the world, which has chosen us to be in the House to pass the logic, because here our logic is rushing many times, a simple example I will give: we have an extremely expensive property, near the sea, with all comforts. Instead of selling it or renting it or using it, you decide to give it to someone for ninety years, giving it clean and unweighted ownership, prestige and possession. At the same time, you allow him to do anything he wants without our approval. How without your approval if you're the owner? In fact, you allow him to lease it to third parties, without having, as owner, any benefit. The property, in fact, will be able to guarantee it to banks, guaranteeing additional funding, which it can use anywhere other than the real estate. So, can anyone tell me what's the owner's benefit? None. Since I have no time, I will tell you, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, that during the last four days I have accompanied the President of Greek Solution, Mr. Velopoulos, in Lesvos. Mr President-in-Office, the situation on the island - and I am very sorry to say this - is hopeless. It's not a question of economy. It's about illegal immigration. They circulate wherever they want, they go wherever they want. And what makes the impression, Mr Georgiadis, is that those who came to meet the President of the Greek Solution - and I tell the truth - from bodies, from police officers, from firefighters who came to see him from hereditaries and, above all, from parliamentarians, there is a huge problem and I do not know how it will be solved. There's a police officer, General Inspector Northeastern Aegean, who was kept, General Durudus. The whole world is against him. He's up all the Greek people. This man over a hundred and sixty letters, Mr. Georgiadis. I've never heard of that thing before. The President spoke with Mr Chryssohoid. There is nothing to be done about it. It's incredible what happens to hunt Greeks every day. It's a hundred and sixty records, and it's up. So all the people of Lesvos are forced to have a police inspector who vandalizes the Greek people, rapes his logic, beats the Greeks unrelentingly? But do they all have complaints? Something must be done and I think that Mr Chrysochoidis is responsible for this, and of course Mr Kalamarakis, the leader. We have to look at this at some point. And we must all understand that everything we say here is about the good and the interests of the country and the interest of the Greek people. That's why we came in here, Mr. Minister. The Greek Solution has come to bring seriousness and logic to Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u135	Thank you. We will now give the floor to the Minister, Mr Adoni Georgiadis. Then there will be Mr. Raguss, and then Mr. Katrinis who had stated it beforehand. After Mr. Catarini, you, Mr. Brutsi. Look, I understand you want each other now after the parliamentary representatives have been placed, but we leave behind the list of speakers. You know that we used to be one, two, three speakers and one parliamentarian. Warm request, think about it and you will tell me after the Minister has been placed, if two, three speakers, and then Members of Parliament, are involved. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I will repeat my comment on Mr Tsipras last time. When you talk to someone and even for so long on staff, civil courtesy requires you to stay and listen to his answer. In any case, I leave that. I wouldn't do it in his place. I've never done it until today. I always remain when I say something about someone answering me, answering and discussing it. Mr. Tsipras wants to make a little show and then he gets up and leaves, just like the people who've been treated don't. I'm leaving this and I'm going a little bit to the object. Before I say about the Greek, there are two important amendments from the Ministry of Development. The first is the new extension we are giving to produce the antiseptics in Greece with the derogation that we voted unanimously in favour of the parties last March. Thanks to this derogation, the production of antiseptics in Greece was made and we have on our market sufficient antiseptics and at very low prices all year round. We have also given an extension, and now we are giving another extension, and I must tell you that if the pandemic continues we will also be giving another extension. This will continue until the need for antiseptics to be the first health issue. So one is the extension until 30 June of this possibility of producing antiseptics. And the second amendment we have is that the exceptional state aid we give to businesses that were closed down during the holiday season and which could not be sold as either a click away in retail trade. I refer to Mr Kozani, in the area of Florina, in the western Attica, and so on. These 3,000 euros per retailer are made unnecessarily and do not need tax or insurance information so that all the businesses in need of the money can enjoy this money. I imagine that both amendments will be welcomed by all parties. I don't see any particular disagreement between us on this. I should like to start from the good news of the day so that we do not have all the usual Greek grievance, which is useful to some degree. Today we have had a very positive news from ELSTAT. I submit it for the Minutes of the House to hear about it by the Greek people and find out whoever you hadn't heard of it. By minus 5.6%, the retail turnover in Greece decreased in January 2021 compared to January 2020. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Adonis-Spyrid Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why is this a very good news? In January 2020, there was no quarantine, no virus, retail trade worked smoothly on 30 days. In January 2021, retail trade lasted 12 days just because we had to shut down again. Therefore, the fact that, in January 2021, ELSTAT counts retail trade, which worked twelve days and not thirty days, as in January 2020, we have only fallen - 5.4% - in my opinion - a large sample of the health and soundness of the Greek economy under extremely difficult conditions. With regard to the irony of Mr Tsipras for the Minister of Development and other things he has said, I would very much like someone from SYRIZA to make an honest criticism of how exactly any Minister - only if he was Jesus Christ, I imagine, could not - have development in the year 2020 in the European Union with pandemic. Because if anyone thinks something was done because of the Ministry of Development or the Minister of Development, and we have a recession of 8.2%, to accept and explain it to me. On the contrary, I would like to say that the performance of the Greek economy in 2020 proved much better than all the relevant forecasts. I will not say the -12% predicted by Mr. Tsipras in June, that is, before the second quarantine, so with the second quarantine he would -15% or -16% on the basis of his or Mr. Varoufakis, who had put a bet on the Step of the House to be -15%. I will say that just a month ago and less in the Committee on Government Procurement, I had an extensive debate and disagreement with the then rapporteur of SYRIZA, Mr Mamulakis, and the Greek Solution, Mr Villardos, about how much the 2020 recession will be, and both insisted with a narrow voice that the recession would even be a two-digit recession. Mr Viliardos had even predicted that we would be above Spain which had -11%. What proved to be the case? Spain of the Socialist Podemos ended up with -11%, Italy -9% and us - 8.2% and France, almost as much as Portugal. In other words, we have gone extremely well with all the forecasts. Now you can look at it halfway through, but you can see it as a national success. I will not say a success of Georgiadis nor a success of the Government. I will say it is a sample that the markets automatically measured it very positively for this and the next time that ELSTAT's announcement fell the loan rates and became a big party, as you say, on the markets because no one expected, but no one had anticipated, not one, that Greece would close with -8.2%. So, without obviously celebrating, why is the recession still great, under the conditions of 2020, but for anyone who understands from an economy, it was a success -8.2% - what do we do now? Now we go to the Greek because I don't want to leave anything unanswered, so I leave the ironies of Mr. Tsipras. I know if he had the Minister of Development Panagiotis Lafazanis - I recall his first choice was Panagiotis Lafazanis for the Minister of Development - I am sure in the midst of a pandemic he would have succeeded and developed not to tell you with quarantines, without travel, without tourism and without anything. But for the economy we can have a very thorough debate at another time. Now we're going to the Greek. Tsipras: "We were not against it," he says, "the investment. We disagreed on specific conditions of investment." That was the first argument he put forward in his criticism. Well, since he's had a lot of prints, I'm starting. Alexis Tsipras during the age of opposition, Mrs Perkas, holds the banner "The Greek is not for sale. Greek is not for sale’. Take it for the Minutes, because he had a little nerve as usual, Mr. Tsipras. [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Adonis-Spyrid Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Be careful, it was not against the investment of the Greek Mr. Tsipras. Some details are with which he disagreed with the banner "Greek not for sale" and with particular, I remember, the conference of "AGEY" which had done there to become green and nothing was built and which had there inconvenienced the Mayor of Greek, Cortzidis, who had put him on a hunger strike and hunger strike, and had hungered on some rails and had gone to water, as if he were a dog. So, to remember, Alexis Tsipras who just stated here that he was not opposed to the beginning, did these. What did Mr. Tsipras say next? It started, first of all, with a series of my own statements about when the bulldozers will start. I haven't got all your statements. I have Mr. Flambury, I have Mrs. Perka, but it's okay, I'll testify two, so we don't waste any time. Specialis: ‘In 2018 it will be granted to the investor’. Before Paulakis laughed, when Tsipras testified in the Minutes and said "all here is paid". There it is, Paul. Spirtzis for the Greek: “In 2018 it will be granted to the investor”. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Isn't Spirji good enough for you? Pitsirlas, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA: "Buldzos in October in Greek". Who's October? This Regulation shall Get it in October 2018. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Analogous to Mr. Flampouraris, five, six different dates had been made. I haven't printed them. If you doubt them, I'll print them later, I've got them on my phone. So if we start playing now with the dates and impressions, you don't get washed off by the Jordan River, which my grandmother used to say. However, let us now go back to what Mr Tsipras said, not to Mr Tsipras, because Mr Tsipras does not want to be convinced. He's come to show and he's gone. But for the Greek people to know what the truth is. First of all, what we received from the SYRIZA Government to restore some truth in the Chamber from what Mrs Perka and Mr Flavouraris said in particular. It is important that the world understands when the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis took over, because one government after another is like a skateboarding. Each one of us delivers the baton to the next team and the next one to the next team and so on. Three days before the elections, a notice 'LAMDA DEVELOPMENT', the company making the investment. I'm closing on the last three lines. "The company is once again faced with a sudden overthrow of agreed debates, in contrast to the spirit of repeated discussions at CSR meetings over the last 10 days. As a result of the above, and after four and a half years of effort and consultation, the decision adopted shall make investment over an indefinite period beyond sending extremely adverse messages to any serious investment national or international’. Also take the notice of ‘LAMDA DEVELOPMENT’ in July 2019. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's what you delivered us. The investment when you left, the dog you gave us, I'll come to you, Mrs. Perka, then it was the investment dead. The company was about to leave the Greek and appeal to the international courts to claim compensation from the Greek State. That's what you delivered to us, despite your predictions that you've been putting the bulldozers since 2018, since 2017, since 2016, since you wanted to go that way. What did Mr. Tsipras say in an election? Now I do the right thing to do. "Mitsotakis commitment to unlock the investment in the Greek within seven days" and "By the good day the Greek decisions". I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The baby laughed from the Sfakia of Crete. Why? Did Mitsotakis fall out? On the first day I went to the Ministry of Development, that is to say on 9 July 2019, at the command of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, I received the Greek file and met Mr Odysseus Athanasios, the CEO of LAMDA DEVELOPMENT - it was my first appointment - and I asked him to review LAMDA DEVELOPMENT - her decision to leave the Greek press, according to the previous press release. The following day, July 10, 2019, following the State's assurances and commitments, the ‘LAMDA DEVELOPMENT’ announced that it would continue its investment in the Greek after compliance with the agreed commitments with the new Greek Government. If Mitsotakis fell out, he fell out from now on: he was not solved in seven days, he was solved in three or twenty-four hours the unblocking of the investment in the Greek. That's the reality. Now let's go to me. I give the Minutes what Mr Tsipras said about me, so that it doesn't seem like I didn't say it. What did he testify for? “In 2019 the bulldozers enter Greek”. “The goal of the bulldozers enter the Greek until the end of 2019” - he testified them - and “The goal of the bulldozers enter the Greek at the beginning of 2020”. I'll do it again now. [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact, bulldozers in Greek entered June 2020. That's true. My initial goal, precursors to start in December 2019 and at the latest in January 2020, did not start in January 2020, they started in June 2020. Why did the bulldozers enter Greek in June 2020? I said the bulldozers would come in. I didn't say there was going to be a change of shares, dear, and the bulldozers went in. And what did Mr. Tsipras say? He said something else very cute. They came in, he says, to tear down a building. Hey, guys, listen up. I'll tell you a story from the medieval history of philosophy. When Europeans had Aristotle God, and it was a time when due to Thomas Imperialis all they cared about was what Aristotle wrote, there is this cute story. The horse, according to Aristotle, disagreed about how many teeth the horse had. Aristotle accidentally writes nothing about how many teeth the horses have and they try to interpret from everything he said about horses how many teeth the horse has. So a monk said - it was considered sacrificial at the time - "Hey, instead of arguing about Aristotle, do we not go down to a stable to measure the teeth of a horse to finish?" So whoever does not understand what happened in the Greek summer that passed us, takes his car, passes through the coastal avenue and sees with his eyes whether a building was demolished, as Mr. Tsipras said. Nine hundred buildings have been destroyed, i.e. this whole land has become. Why did it become herbs? Because to deliver to the investor something, they must deliver it ready for his investment. It has already been falsely heard - I do not remember by whom, I think by Mr Mylonakis, I may be wrong, someone said it - that there have been some work with the Greek State's money, while you know very well - and I will now tell you how you know that the investor put the money, that is, the 'LAMDA DEVELOPMENT'. I now ask SYRIZA in good faith. Well, you guys don't believe me that ninety buildings were broken and you don't believe me that Lamda DEVELOPMENT paid them. I'll take it. You don't like me, I'm yelling, I've broken your nerves, you want to take me against me, you say, "I don't believe Georgiadis". Here's how simple things are, ladies and gentlemen. It happened that the company that took over the break-up of the projects and paid by LAMDA DEVELOPMENT was the company ‘ITRAKNAT’. But who was previously a member of the board of directors of this company? Mr Peter Kokalis, your MEP. Instead of arguing with Georgiadis, you don't ask your MEP who paid him to make the demolition of the property demolition? He will certify that he was paid by LAMDA, who has given him the job. And he'll tell you how many buildings he demolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u137	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u138	I'll be in five minutes. It is a shame that Mr Tsipras, when his work was taken by a Member of the European Parliament, in fact his family cannot speak with his MEP to find out the truth. Thus, a building was not demolished, nineteen and not paid by the Greek State, but paid by the ‘LAMDA’. So the bulldozers went in and the job was done. Now we're going to the last one he told me. "Adonis Georgiadis now declares himself about the bulldozers in the Greek." I'm presenting it for the Minutes. And he said it with a smart guy. Of course, ladies and gentlemen. When you ask for things that relate to the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment and do not know how to ask a written question in the House, obviously the department of my Ministry will answer you that "what you ask us is not the responsibility of this Ministry". If you resubmit the question to the right ministry, you'll get the right answer. It's for the last cute one. So to collect. If we play with the dates, you're not making out on SYRIZA. If we play now with whether you want the investment, the entire Greek people remember. What did we do now? I present it in the Minutes and show it for the Greek people who are now seeing the speech. A page. I don't read 'cause there's a lot of them. Two pages, three pages, four pages - I will put it all - densely populated steps towards joint ministerial decisions which all know how many run from behind, legalisation, legislation and anything else that has had to be done by the present government so that we can get to the point where we are. I'll tell you right away where we are and I'll hang up with this. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. When you were supposed to give it to us ready and had to do four pages of administrative deeds densely populated, so that we could get to the point where we are today, it is also a little courageous to sell spirit in the Chamber. In order not to blame Mrs Perka and Mr Flavouraris, partly because I am not like you and I always like to recognise to my political opponents what they have done, the truth is that in the SYRIZA government, Mrs Perka, first and foremost, and Mr Flavouraris, secondly, they have worked to make the investment. They worked to make the investment. The reason they did not make it is obviously that they fell out on dates. I filed them so we don't waste time. Why didn't they make it while we did it, and we're here where we are today? For one basic reason: Because SYRIZA is cut in two. Mr. Flamouraris and Mrs. Perka wanted the investment to be done, while Mr. Stathakis, Mr. Skourletis and the others did not want the investment to be made. Go on, Mrs. Perka and say they'll keep one card, go ahead and take the other one out. We were told by the servants themselves after we took over. Under the circumstances Mrs. Perka has worked for her, I recognize that much has done, to be honest. But so the investment could never end in the Greek. Where's the investment today? But you don't have to believe me again. A simple google search to make you see how many foreign offers LAMDA DEVELOPMENT has already collected to sell - to sell - apartments in skyscrapers in Greek, you will see the course of its stock exchange, you will see how the increases in share capital have been covered, only to raise the Greek money. All of these are real acts, where real people spend hundreds of millions as much as we here fight for the Greek. Do you think all of these people give their millions, Mr. Flambury, just why do they like Georgiadis? Oh, no. And the shareholders of the ‘LAMDA DEVELOPMENT’ put money on capital increases. How much money? More than 600 million for the Greek. Why did they put them on? Because they thought the Greek started. That's why they put them. If they thought the Greek was stuck, they wouldn't. If the market believed that the Greek is stuck, it would not be the share of the LAMDA DEVELOPMENT where it is. If foreign property buyers believed that skyscrapers would not become, they would not give advances to buy apartments. You don't have to believe me. You can believe what you see in front of your eyes. The bill that the Ministry of Finance brings today is the last step towards the final start of the project on its main basis, because the precursor work has already begun and continues with this law. Works in Greek are done and the bulldozers go back in with this law. In order to make the transfer of the property, however, and to start the construction of the main project, there remains another important step. What's that? The approval by the Court of Auditors of the casino competition and then the vote by this House by law in order to close all the file on the Greek you voted in 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u139	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u140	I'll be right back, Mr. President. And to those who dared to say - I think Mr Varoufakis said - that when you are opposition you see scandals and when you are government you see them well - another great lie - I want to remind you that when the Tsipras government brought the law for the Greek, I as rapporteur of the New Democracy I voted in favour of the law and I had congratulated SYRIZA for bringing it. And as opposition, the New Democracy supported the investment. I guess I'll say it better to be just historical and time-consuming. This investment is the largest investment in urban renewal in the European Union, the largest construction project in the country over 8 billion euros that will create seventy-five thousand jobs is a vision of the then Prime Minister Antonis Samaras. He thought about it and put it in the Samara-Venizelo conflict. There was the first big step, "water entered the groove", as we say and started to move on. He was then fought by Mr. Tsipras, as I have shown you. But then Mr Tsipras - and I will say good - put a mind on it, changed his mind, and supported the investment by means of the law that he brought to Parliament. He had Mr. Flambury and Mrs. Perka work, who worked as much as they could in the inferior environment I described you. They took it to a certain point - not satisfying, to be fair, but I do not underestimate them. It was very difficult as a SYRIZA government to move on. They did as much as they could. And we took that bitch where they left us. We did all the things I showed you. The market has believed us. The investment's on its way. The casino contest is over. I would remind you that in the casino contest Mr. Pappas had asked me a written question, adopting all the arguments of HARD ROCK and the Council of State unanimously stated that what the Ministry of Development did was right by the Ministry of Finance and the Independent Committee of Games and we were also fully entitled to this. And where are we now? We expect the Court of Auditors to give the green light today for the casino, also to bring this law, to transfer the shares and to go to the main job. In other words, with COVOID - with all that means for such an investment - and with the 'HARD ROCK' dispute - 'MOHEGAN', which lasted about a year in the courts, the actual delay in the project is not more than six months. So fast and we went so well. That's why the market rewards our efforts, no matter how much you are being sarmed by some "multiple" laughter. So the substance remains. The greatest work that has been done in Greek history as a construction starts by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. He finally finished it. He gives it to the Greek people for his well-being, no matter how much it bothers all of you who just want to see the economy with smallness. I recognized what previous people did from me. Such luck as a Minister I've never accepted in my life. Everyone who comes always forgets what the previous guy did. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u141	I had announced that he would speak after Mr. Georgiadis, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u142	I want the floor, Mr President, on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u143	Please. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u144	I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u145	Sit down. Mr Ragosi, because we did not give Mr Kegeroglu consciously, who had a problem, until he arrived in the House and was to speak in the first 50 speakers - is your turn, as I said - Is there any objection to giving the floor to Mr Kegeroglu, then to you and then to Mr Katrin?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u146	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u147	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u148	No, wait a minute, Mr President, I want the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u149	Sit down. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds. Give me a minute to explain why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Kegeroglu will be speaking now, Mr. Polakis. After Mr. Kegeroglu, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u152	Not now, before Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u153	Please. Sit down. You don't have the floor. Mr. Kegeroglu, please, start your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u154	Because time started to count...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, you must now give me the floor. Now he's told the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u156	Because time started to count, we have to move forward according to programming.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u157	I'm gonna go. He has to give me the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u158	Whatever the President says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u159	All right, Mr. Polakis. Please, Mr. Kegeroglu, be patient for a minute. Here, Mr Polakis, you have the floor for a minute to tell us what the staff are.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u160	One minute is the justification for the staff. I'm talking directly about the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u161	We're on staff. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u162	The reason why I spoke on personal grounds is that Mr.Georgiades flew in his loved habit - to throw the ball at the platform - characterisations of the formula "The baby laughs from the Sfakia". That's what the far-right from Athens said. Listen to me, Mr. Georgiadis, you're a liar. Do you know why you're a liar? The ministerial decision you signed - and without shame you came out here and said that nine buildings were demolished - is a ministerial decision in which you yourself signed the demolition of the buildings with number 294 to 298, based on the topographic chart of the Greek, i.e. five buildings. Is that nine hundred? Nine hundred tumbles make your mind and these ones come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u163	Please, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u164	And if you want - because now you're laughing as a baby - let's go count together how many buildings have been broken down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u165	All right, Mr. Polakis, go along with a braceto to measure the demolished buildings. Please, where's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u166	'The baby from the Sfakia'. If I tell you "baby from Larissa" isn't personal? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u167	Please. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u168	Well, listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u169	If you're upset by this...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u170	When you talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u171	Listen to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u172	Let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u173	Turn off the microphone, please. Mr Polakis, if your problem, your staff, is the word spoken by the Minister, I now ask the Minister to withdraw it, to close any misunderstandings here and move on to the debate. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u174	I didn't finish my placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u175	That was personal. Please. You didn't take the floor for a reason. You're a speaker. You will speak seven minutes, as the Rules give you the right. Your staff was the word 'baby'. The Minister has the floor for a minute, obviously to correct the unfortunate expression, and to move on to the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u176	And don't go, Mr. Georgiadis. I have a gift after.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u177	You don't have the floor, Mr. Polakis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u178	First of all, my programme and whether or not I leave will allow me to determine it freely. If, in my phrase, the baby laughs from the Sfakia, he recognizes himself, I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u179	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u180	I had in mind a baby from the Sfakia at that time, but I'm surprised that Mr. Paulakis immediately understood himself. I imagine all other colleagues are surprised. So, Mr President, I didn't mean Mr. Polakis, and I'm surprised he understood himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u181	Good. So the misunderstanding has been resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u182	As far as the buildings are concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u183	You are ‘...’.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u184	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u185	Mr President, he called me "...", "..." and so forth. You have to call him to class because patience has its limits. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u186	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u187	Please, Mr. Polakis, nothing has been recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u188	As far as the buildings are concerned, Mr. Tsipras said that we demolished one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u189	You said nine hundred! Four...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u190	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u191	Now Mr. Paulakis said we're down four!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u192	You said nine hundred!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u193	Can you a little agree on what we'll answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u194	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u195	On topographical charts, you will invite your MEP Mr. Petros Kokalis to explain to you the building and invoice of the invoice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u196	Okay. Good, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u197	It's not enough that INTRAKAT took the money, you're talking from above! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u198	If you've got men, let's go count them together!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u199	Please respect the speaker waiting at the Step. Mr. Kegeroglu, start your speech. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u200	The Greek people are tired of listening to the government's performance, they are tired of hearing about the welfare of numbers, and of course they are concerned when they are not mentioned and hidden under the carpet the problems they experience in the middle of a pandemic. He is tired of hearing misunderstandings and at the same time seeing those who give them and those who make decisions not to follow the instructions. He is angry with this situation and often disgusted when here in the House or in the portrait, he sees controversy unwise, a divisive controversy about the precedent of power, a struggle for the duplication and then follow thousands of evil trolls, often immorally follow and continue with meaningless and dangerous confrontation. I am not talking about the dead and the people who lose their lives, because I do not want to be equal and equal to those who invest in death. However, I must say that at the time we have four thousand cases, six hundred permeable and thousands of intensified cases, this confrontation is absolutely unacceptable and is systematically made by the Government and Acoustic Opposition. We have followed it here today, a controversy that revealed the fifty-four months of inertia and contradictions of the SYRIZA government, a period that did not effectively promote the Greek project, but also when the "floor ready" came, we have seen that everything else had a plan, apart from the thick words and verbalism to promote investment. It must be said that even now, the five to the nineties which are heard in this meaningless confrontation are revealing what has not happened. We have, in essence, one question, we must stress that we have supported investment from the outset and supported every legislative initiative that was coming to resolve issues and promote investment, other than those subsequently amending the terms of investment and violating the environment by giving many millions in the way they were introduced into Parliament. We supported the investment and we continue to support it. So we ask today: Why does this confrontation continue? Why don't we come here to give answers to the questions of municipalities and citizens, to ensure that we are fully in the public interest and to do the best, so that the investment can yield for both the public and local society and investors, is a useful investment in all things? That's our question. Why this pointless controversy? Why have you chosen this way, since the traditional opposition and confrontation for the investment have now been overcome? At first, there were two points of view. The first view is the traditional one, and there is many in the conservative party, which says that in the name of investments we are giving everything at all costs in order to move forward with investment and we are not interested in the environment, society, in the public interest. And there was another, extreme view that the region should become a metropolitan park, all green, fenced green, which should not be linked to social, economic and other activities and should not be integrated into a framework of sustainable development. It has been a long time before we come to the final framework - at least for us, and this is our line - for a sustainable and integrated living, economic, guaranteed environmental development, with compensatory benefits, green lungs scattered in the wider urban area, but social and local benefits along with the wider public interest. We understand why you're bringing this bill today. There is a need for distribution in such a way that it is not called into question. We have issues to do with the distribution that could be done and in practice, it could be done in another way. Therefore, this choice also has Parliament's crisis and you should listen to the House's crisis. So we are calling on the government today because it does not table an official timetable for the investment and the next institutional steps towards completion and why it does not stop ad hoc, without consultation for the project, so that we can get into a phase of regularity and implementation of the project. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] We have two articles to deal with. There is a concern about Article 4, which facilitates the procedures. And here's a question to Mr. Georgiadis and not just. This article on facilitating the procedures, even if the process of transferring shares has not been completed, why - I ask him - since it was in favour of speeding up the investment, did not bring it in July 2019, did not bring it in July 2020 only bring it after this whole timetable has been exhausted? They're questions that don't answer. We have Article 5. What we are talking about is the substance and not the legal wording. Greece has an institutional framework that ensures health and safety at work. I had the honour as Deputy Minister of Labour to receive a job launched by Andreas Loverdes, but I completed it in my two terms at the State Secretary of Labour and Greece now has a strong institutional framework harmonized with Europe for health and safety at work. There's no need for any more legalization! Applying the laws is needed! So the Minister's statement that for security reasons this is done is not only superfluous, but also increases our suspicions that something else means something else. The regulation now exists in exceptional circumstances and, at the same time, it is assumed that this is not all of this, I think it strengthens our suspicions and objections. As far as the amendments are concerned, an amendment came a moment ago, mercy! I asked, and it's for the OPAP. We don't even have time to see her. From the title are we going to vote? We are therefore in a difficult position to decide on the amendment. We have expressed ourselves with 'yes' in principle. I told you our concern and our opposition to Article 5. The Ministry of Finance's amendment is in most of its articles and we will vote for it. We do not vote for the amendment by the Ministry of Sports, and we do not vote for the amendment by the Ministry of the Interior. For the OPAP amendment, a god knows what it regulates. We will see it in next year and I hope that we can see what exists. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Good evening to you and me. And since we're done with the personal stuff, I see we're starting with other things. I would like to thank Mr Ragosi for the concession he makes to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Heta, who I would ask him to keep all six minutes and to come to Vima.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u202	Let Mr. Ragus speak, please. Thanks anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Ragossi, postpone his appointment, so come on. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Ioannis Ragussas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, because most of my fellow Members have not spoken, I will be much shorter - I believe - than twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u205	As you wish, I must nevertheless thank you for the service you have agreed to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u206	Alas! But there's one more reason. Having spoken with the Chief of Staff, Mr. Tsipras, and having put forward a number of very specific arguments for this bill, but also for other very serious issues of topicality in combination and following on from what our rapporteur, Mrs. Perka, has said, the answers of the ministers who are incidentally not one of them here, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u207	Here's Mr. Besiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u208	Oh, is it? Okay. So the Ministers' replies were literally outside the debate. They have referred to designations, they have used - it is Mr Georgiadis' dear method - a variety of wisdom. However, there is no answer to the substance of the matter. Look, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion today's meeting has a very important character, because in fact one of the four legs that support a table, on which the government's opposition menu is based, has now been removed. And we know very well that a table based on four legs if he loses one leg, it collapses. And this one leg of this table was this account, this assumption, the false as it is today, that there is a party in the country, New Democracy, pro-investmental, pro-developmental and, on the other hand, there is a Dedicated Unpopulation, under the crisis of the Greek people, perhaps next government, which is hosting investment, is counterproductive to growth. And it's such a collapse of this false case today that we've been living struggling moments a while ago in this Step. We have heard Mr Georgiadis reach the point today that is, 2021, speaking - to his honour - in exceptional words, Mrs Perkas and Mr Flamouraris, to acknowledge that as the responsible members of the previous government they had a decisive contribution to the progress of the project, and otherwise to consider that the false assumption that this is a party that did not want to be invested by the Greek Government and has fought with it. So this is truly embarrassing, unless Mrs Perkas and Mr Flamouraris were not members of the government of Alexis Tsipras, but members of the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis who had not even been elected by the Greek people at that time. Nonsense, stupid honesty. But why is all this happening? Because the present government, the present government majority, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, is faced with what is called developmentist populism. He has fallen victim to this approach, the populist approach with which he has succeeded and extracted some of the sympathy and then the vote of the Greek people. A populism that said neither much nor much that such a great investment is a matter of Ministers whether to go quickly or not and that the previous ones had to go away, that the next ones should come in to move on. This is for those who know - and the vast majority of Greeks and Greeks know that - it has no connection with reality. A license starts to build one of his own home and eats one or two years only for the issue of building permit. And here you were claiming irresponsible, first and foremost your President Mitsotakis, that everything was delaying and everything was blocked because there was no political will - that was enough to change political will! - to have bulldozers and work in progress in seven days. And you've been ridiculed by reality itself. Because it has been twenty months and nothing has been done about what you claimed you could do by taking over the government. And not only this but today - now Mr Stavros is missing - the other laughter that we lived through was that list of the realities of the government in this twenty-month period. I say this to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple. Keep them if you want to think about and assess your own. So we heard Mr Stavoura arrogating us with a whole lot of administrative acts. And, if possible, the administrative acts would take twenty months? Is it possible for the administrative acts arising from and coming from the Government itself to require twenty months? And it is not enough that he was referring to the administrative acts that have just been carried out this 20-month period to say that we did something, but within all of them - obviously because they think they are addressing citizens and politicians or even Members of Parliament who have a low index of intelligence - Mr Stourras said: we have moved forward - it says - and the setting up of a working group. He mentioned a working group as one of the great steps taken by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to proceed with the investment in Greek! So the government is confronted with itself and with the false expectations it itself had created through this development - populism in previous years. So what I think today is the important one is that this account of the government's majority is now falling apart. They probably didn't expect today that we as a Qualified Opposition as a SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance will first come a positive opinion on the draft law. They probably hoped that we would give them the opportunity to vote against at first to renew the power of this false account they have. Since we declared right from the outset that we were positive at first, the government propaganda of many years as a paper tower collapsed. Now I would also like to complete two, three, I think, important issues. One is this: Watch out! When the Chief of Police Representation comes up and speaks in the way he spoke of Ms. Kerameos and her obligation to resign, because she played in a great scandal, as in fact what was revealed about the contract and the lies made by Mrs. Kerameos, two first-class government ministers at this Step cannot rise and they cannot feel the need to say a word to defend Mrs. Kerameos. What Mr Stavros has done today, as well as Mr Georgiadis, who has risen to this step following the complaints of Alexis Tsipras about Mrs Kerameos, whose resignation has been sought, and they have not found a single word to defend Mrs Keramos is a major blow to the Minister of Education itself by the complaints he made just now by the Chief of Staff. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end, Mr President, by saying this: At the moment we are talking about the development of the pandemic, the worst statistical data could be imagined or could be expected to hear the Prime Minister and the Ministers in the past few days and weeks. It seems that, unfortunately, we have a situation which is literally out of control with three and a half thousand cases, about seven hundred halved, tens of them, not to say hundreds of people who are possibly imprisoned outside the ICM plus the deaths we have today and who, unfortunately, according to the experts' forecasts, will also probably increase in the next period. I wish they wouldn't be confirmed. So I think that when this happens now, that is the reality of Greek society. On the other hand, when the Greek society is watching here today, first-class ministers of the government talk about pandemic as if it were an accounting issue and as if it is a matter that is sufficient to deal with the "gallonia" of one or two Ministers, then what it understands is that we really have not only the pandemic in its worst possible development, but we also have a government that has completely lost its contact with reality. And that is even more dangerous for what is expected to happen in the next period, because it is obviously completely lost control. Obviously the situation is uncontrolled, and all one can do now is really put all his expectations and all his hopes on those heroes of the National Health System from whom we have nothing more to wait, despite the fact that overcoming ourselves will be able to keep as many patients as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u209	Thank you too, Mr Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u211	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u212	Although I was not in the Chamber, I heard the position of my colleague and parliamentary representative of the Civilian Representation, who said that we refused or refused to support the work of fellow ministers. The government's responsibility is collective, but I have to respect the time that I have exceeded and I have not only answered it, but also issues relating to media, transport issues - I have a whole list here - such as OSH, OSH and OSH. I didn't, because there was a matter of time. But I want to tell you something. You said in your position - and you were required to be informed by Mrs Perka, because she knows the truth - that I allegedly presented between the twenty-four actions and the setting up of a legislative committee to do what we are discussing today. Slowly feat! There are hundreds of e-mails from the GOID to the former Minister of Finance to do this and they never happened. So, because Mrs. Perka knows the truth, you might have asked her before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, can there be two, three speakers and speak with parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u215	You are right, Mr Polakis, but all parliamentarians want to speak. Mr. Katrinis is right to whine, because he's written to talk about 16:00. He's very right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u216	I've asked to speak since 12:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u217	And you, Mr. Ragosi, have escaped me. While Mr Tsipras also spoke, you spoke for twelve minutes. You stole me six minutes. It's my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u218	Allow me, Mr President, just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u219	Here you go, Mr. Ragosi, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Stavura, watch me a little, please, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u221	Yes, but you'll have to answer later, Mr. Ragossi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, I have a duty to put something to this House. There's a complaint that's been moved all over the internet right now. You must inform Mr. Georgiadis that the photo that he showed to us before...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u223	Who testified to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u224	...and which he also testified in the Minutes and shows Mr. Tsipras holding a banner among others, is denounced as a montage, as a "fake news" and as a fake. So you must now inform him, please, very much, because if that is the case, Mr Georgiadis must come back, withdraw this complaint, apologize and admit the inadmissibility he has committed. He has to do it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u225	Minister, this complaint is serious. I would ask Mr. Georgiadis to be informed. Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Konstantinos Heitas has the floor, thanking Mr Katrin for the concession. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u226	And I personally thank Mr. Michael Katrin. And while all this is happening with the make pictures or not, there's a drama out there. A few minutes ago, three thousand five hundred eighty-six incidents were announced, because we insist on the incidents and not on cases. I don't know how much the cases are, they might be much less. We're talking about a real drama. So, dear Mr Stakoura, on the occasion of the fact that Mr. Viliardos has also spoken, but earlier the President of the Greek Solution, let me in the few minutes at my disposal to refer to the great and important things, because for your bill, I think our reports have been exhausted. You also know about these more than three and a half thousand cases out there and the country that is in 'deep red', as everyone writes a few minutes ago - it is not the world that does not keep or keep the measures. It's your fault and I'll explain why. Because you have thought for a year, all this time, that you have made the right decisions and that the measures will be effective. What measures? Lockdown, incarceration, washed hands, "we're waiting at home", masculines and antiseptics. That illusion you had! However, I do not think there is a man in the committee, in your health committee, between your advisers and the Ministry of Health who did not know, Mr Brutsi, that this situation would be such a long time. We all knew that. So when we all know that this situation will be such a long time, maybe one or a half years, you don't try to convince the Greek people, an entire people that the two weeks are critical, that the next two weeks are critical, the other two weeks are crucial, the other two weeks are crucial, the other two weeks are crucial. That's not how it works! You've been organizing your health system in this very long time. You're organizing it with realism rather than wishfulness. But here we have to say who is to blame and why the system is falling apart. I'm not a doctor, they'll tell them after the doctors. Why, then, is the National Health System under way? So tell the world that he hears that the current Prime Minister and current ministers have a huge responsibility, because they were ministers of Antonis Samaras, such as current Prime Minister Mitsotakis and Mr Georgiadis, when they almost destroyed primary health care in 2014. They signed redundancies of tens of thousands from primary health care and closed hospitals and now have the nerve to criticize doctors! Eighteen thousand doctors who studied and graduated in Greece, left abroad. But neither our doctors nor the six hundred thousand Greeks, ours, left because they wanted to leave their homeland. Trust me! Here we need to see the substance, we need to see what is to be done. I've said it a hundred times, months now, that I need to create an ICU, recruit qualified personnel, strengthen primary care and strengthen home care, so that the patient, an incident, is at home from where a doctor is watching him. Stop all the rest. Now, when it comes to enlisting individuals, I would like to say that you also deprive them of primary care. Two hundred doctors will stop providing their services to the rest of the world. And I close with the sanitary piece by borrowing the words of a leading Greek doctor. I'd like him to allow me, although I haven't told him, I don't even know him. So this doctor recently made this statement: "It is time for the next elections of medical clubs to show up doctors and not parties who expect “parliamentation”. It's Mr. Dimitris Gaki, a surgeon,
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u227	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u228	I don't mind, Mr. President. Even if everyone yells, I speak properly. Now let's go a little bit further on the free test. What free test, Mr. Stakoura and Mr. Besiropoulos? What free test? They come from the state budget, so from the pockets of the Greeks. There's nothing for free. But that's who you are. We are not going to forget either your criminal errors or the fiasco with tourism last year, or the paradox with masks or the backbone with lockdown, or the tsunami of fines, or the demonization of orthodox. Nothing will be forgotten by the Greeks and Greeks. And we've arrived today. And what does today say on 25 March? You forbid the Greeks to see the parade on the day of March 25th. The 25th of March 2021 is a symbol. The government must allow - and it should allow - for that day, for just one day to this enclosed people for a year, to give freedom to the Greeks for one day, as you give the Pakistani people to go to the center of Athens, as you give the right to anyone else, left, what you want, protesting to be on the streets every day, so much more important is to watch the parade. It is not possible at the celebration of freedom of two hundred years, the Greek today is enslaved. That's not possible, with four thousand cops, and I'm embarrassed to be thrown away. What's that now? That's what the Greeks want. We want parades all over the country. We want to pay tribute to our heroes, from north to south, from Alexandroupolis to Kastelorizo, from Promahona to Crete, to go out with our children and see the parades. I regret to close, Mr President, because it is difficult tonight, we will be caught at midnight - we are living in a country that is two hundred-year slaves, in a Greece that is enslaved to lenders. Greece of debt, unemployment, illegal immigration, LGBTKI Greece. Reading, my eye fell in a phrase of Victor Ugo. Listen to what Viktor Uggo said two hundred years ago: "The world is Greece that is expanding." That's what he said. "And Greece is the world that is being swept away." That's what strangers were saying about us. So high they had Greece. That was the greatness of Greece. That's how they saw us two hundred years ago. We inspired the whole world. The world is Greece that is spreading. Greece is the congested world. Unfortunately, you have achieved the last fifty years - and we have now arrived, of course - to identify the celebration of the two hundred years since the Greek Revolution with the flaws of the modern post-Ministry Greek citizen, the Greek who endured the balance of the hunger wage with allowances, with suspensions of work, with locks, with coronary terrorism and with the extremism of our youths on the four spots. I close with these words and ask the Greeks, following the encouragement of the President of the Greek Solution, to raise the head up and take the blue to their balconies. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Parliamentary spokesman from the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis. Then Mr. Brutsi will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u232	On a very difficult day with three and a half thousand cases announced and the intangibles reaching the seven hundred, Mr. Georgiadis came to present us with a good news and presented the decrease in ELSTAT retail turnover of 5.6% in January as a very good news. Of course, it did not make a comparison with the corresponding reduction in November which, on the basis of ELSTAT's figures again, was 7.9% with much more days off the market. But what Mr Georgiadis or the Government did not say - and it is no coincidence that he did not say so - is that ELSTAT is based on a sample of businesses with an annual turnover of more than EUR 140,000. That's not what we call it, the U.S. U.S. U.S. INEM. And it is not surprising that the government does not, Minister, deal with businesses that do not have a turnover below EUR 140,000. After all, we all know in this Chamber that in TEPIX II money - we have made it too many times in the Change Movement - companies with a turnover of up to EUR 100,000 have taken 2.4% of the money. So, for you, companies under 100,000 euros annual turnovers are nonexistent. That is why you are celebrating the small reduction in retail turnover, which, of course, is due to the launch of sales of supermarkets, pharmacy and e-commerce stores. So that does not surprise us, but that is not a cause for celebration. Last Friday, the citizens and especially the professionals - because according to Mr Georgiadis and the government there are no problems, it is a small fall in turnover - they expected the announcements to listen to Mr Chardalia opening the market instead of listening to Mr Scorcho making a political account of the work of the government, announcing the free self testing of the pharmacy. Eventually, we don't understand. Will the data be voluntarily recorded? Does this help to make real tracking and to how pandemic develops? But when the opposition proposed this three, four months ago, some people said it was unnecessaryly wasted, with the same ease as most intensive treatment facilities characterized by thrown money. Because, in the end, ladies and gentlemen, it turns out that the basic 'problem' that has turned into a country's problem is the success of the first lockdown. The government there believed it was over with the management of the pandemic and, of course, tried to capitalise what it then thought was a political benefit. He set himself up with her and framed the whole country. Imports have exceeded three and a half thousand in a week, the intubated ones are already approaching the seven hundred and according to Professor Thomas the viral load is three times higher than the highest value recorded in the second lockdown, in the second wave of pandemic. What's the government doing? We have asked for a long time ago for cooperation, and in recent years we have called for the private health sector to be ordered. The Government is confined to ordering services of private doctors of specific qualifications. It does not go into private sector order. Of course, the Government argues that despite cases, despite imports into clinical COVID, despite the large number of seamless people, it is doing well in relation to other European countries. However, according to the 'Our World in Data' website, which draws data from 'Johns Hopkins University', Greece appears - and I will submit it in the Minutes on 21 March - to be above the European Union average for the average of deaths per week, to be below the average of vaccinations per week, in relation to the European Union, to be fatal above the average of the European Union. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All of this while we continue to be the country with the greatest time limiting measures in the world. The Government likes to apply measures to 'and one'. I would remind you that on 5 November the Prime Minister announces Lockdown. The same night an amendment is being made to hire doctors and nurses to the ICU. Next week there is the rise and the outbreak of the pandemic, and the Minister invites the doctors to assemble. Contradictory messages, as contradictory are the messages of the Development and Finance Ministers to open up the market. However, it is not just those contradictory messages which the government sends. In national matters, at the same time as we are allegedly calling for sanctions to be imposed on Turkey, we are sending another message to the European partners when we are planning meetings of the Foreign Minister with Turkey's Foreign Minister, following the provocative statements and attitudes of our neighbours. Inadequate the Foreign Ministry's reaction to Turkey's provocative attitude in Cyprus. In fact, we read that Cyprus rejects the draft joint declaration of twenty-seven ahead of the summit. We look forward with interest to our country's attitude, because obviously the Borrell report which was welcomed as a positive one for national interests does not deal with many issues, such as the provocative energy in Varosia, but also the violation of international law. As far as the economy is concerned, you proceeded with the early repayment of the IMF loan. We put it in this Chamber almost a month and a half ago, and you left it in the middle of the day. It was a label for the markets ahead of us and the issue of the thirty-year bond. You proceeded with the issue of the thirty-year bond for the first time after 2008, which is undoubtedly a positive development for the country. The yields have remained at very good levels, obviously - and we are not saying that - not because of the credibility of the Greek economy, but thanks to the European Central Bank's 'PEP' programme. Moreover, the European Central Bank has bought more Greek bonds than we have at the same time. The early repayment of the loan to the International Monetary Fund, the low financing costs due to a European Central Bank's programme, together with the use of the resources of the Recovery Fund, are good for the reports and evaluations from international houses. And the latest evaluation, 'DBRS', talks about a possible upgrade from a successful management of the pandemic crisis and a return to sustainable development. We both hope to come true! On the inside, however, it is obvious that you have run out of fuel, despite the low borrowing cost. We have asked you to increase the amount of the refund, to allocate it in a fairer way, since at the moment it is necessary as long as the companies and the economy are ready to support and the opening that you have announced, but it seems to be delaying as a result of the outbreak of the pandemic. The fact is that money has largely resulted in large businesses. We have said and said again that we think that a fairer distribution should be made. With regard to private debt, the solution of twenty-four and forty-eight instalments, the platform of the extrajudicial with the minimum arrangements does not provide solutions. We ask for long-term arrangements of at least a hundred twenty-dose, of course exhaustion of the margin of forty-forty-dose and a cap on the profit margin from the'services'. We are now going to the investments in which there is a great deal of discussion and obviously concern today's bill. We are evidently in favour of investments which reduce the consequences of the crisis, since the investment public over the last decade has exceeded EUR 100 billion. Greece, of course, was a hundred and fifty-sixteenth-sixteenth-year-old among ninety countries in its convenience in the World Bank report, and I mention it because in its "DBRS" report there is a demand to improve the business environment in order to increase the country. Foreign direct investment accounts for only 16% of GDP, while in the Eurozone 60%. Because, indeed, the Minister spoke about the investments of PFIZER, VOLKSWAGEN, MICROSOT, CISCO - which is also topical - and of DELOITTE, I would like to say that in the first quarter of 2020, the influx of foreign direct investment has fallen by more than 40% compared to the previous quarter. We're talking about three quarters before pandemic on your own government. So we are talking today about an investment, for a process that has been launched at the end of 2011, a competition that has been ratified for five years, a project that took dozens of special laws, ministerial decisions and administrative acts to start, that is to say, to start the crumbling that Mr Georgiadis, from this step in 2019, told us that in 2019 the bulldozers would enter and start the project in the course of the year, despite what he says today. Finally, the bulldozers entered a year after the New Democracy took over from the New Democracy, with the Prime Minister's presence for good reasons. We are talking today about the agreement on the distribution of the property, which, as we have made clear, will be voting in favour, and it is unknown when the work will actually begin, since the government has not presented a clear timetable. At the same time, we read that the consortium that has won the casino licence tender also calls for changes in the contract, which inevitably will lead to further delays, since the assignment of the casino licence is required to transfer the shares to the ‘LAMDA’. In fact, to be clear to each other, without the casino there is no work that we are discussing today. But why am I saying that? I say this because the relevant tender - the Minister for Development - was implemented by the previous administration of the Toys Supervision and Control Committee at high speed and transparency - all decisions were judicially justified - by maximising the price that the Greek State will receive, but also by the size of the investment that the contractor has undertaken to implement. You, however, went on to replace the administration that achieved all this, obviously because it was not pleasurable to you. You have not evaluated all of what you are presenting today as "driving" processes quickly for the days of your own governance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We obviously support the project. We want to send a positive message to the investment community. After all, we started the whole process and have voted for all the relevant legislative initiatives at present for an investment that could reasonably be considered 'embled', since for the first time in Greece such urban renewal would be initiated with many different end-uses. We have expressed our reservations. Of course, the government must ensure that nothing changes either in terms of use or in terms of construction, that the fence is temporary and that the wall of isolation is not created or a closed settlement - assurances have been given and that people have been given access to the beach and the municipality can make use of it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is an issue with the auctioning of the historic aircraft of Olympic Airways, which are intended by the Hellenic Civil Aviation Museum. I would like to say something about Article 2 of the amendment under a general number of 805 on special clearance. We agreed on the regulation of Law 4772, and I think we all agree that all employee cases should be included, as long as there is no irreversible classification table. Therefore, the requirements for redundancy compensation for late payment of accrued earnings should be included as long as the claims were born at least two years before the application under Article 68 of Law 4307. We say this for reasons of equal treatment and equal treatment for workers. Ladies and gentlemen, in a huge task such as this of the Greek particularly important element, it is important to keep timeliness so that our fellow citizens can enjoy all the good things that will offer them when and as long as it is completed, something that we wholeheartedly hope for. Of course, we all realise that from the first demolition in July 2020, until the last erection and construction, there is still a long time and a long way to go. I hope he's not incompetent. Procedural issues are many. However, today it is necessary as never before to speed up authorisations, to mitigate environmental impacts and to comply with deadlines. The expectation of the great added value that the work will bring to society, the economy and the country is the best incentive for those involved to become directly active, in order to finally overcome the stagnation and inactivity of a whole decade. The government will be judged very strictly both on the speed of implementation and the timing of completion of the project and on the reliability of those who are said to be and on their pro-investor account. It will, of course, be judged not only on what it says it is for investment, but also on whether it is really willing to complete it in the short term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr. Katrin. We will now serve Mr Famelos who at 19.00 has a serious obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, could I ask you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u235	Of course, Mr. Loverdo. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, we hear that the sitting will be adjourned today and resumed tomorrow at 10: 30 a.m. Please find out very much, so you can tell us and make our schedule.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u237	You're absolutely right. I'd love to know and tell you. I'll let you know right away. It's okay. To thank the Member for giving Mr Famello his position. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u238	I too, Mr President, would like to thank my fellow Members and the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative for giving me the space. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the work of the Greek Parliament was a monument, but also a demonstration of the project of political deception which was designed and implemented by the power system that operates around Mr Mitsotakis. This is a system that is fuelled and supported by friendly and well-deserved - I would like to say - a media that creates, if you like, a multiplier and continuing deception of who wants investment and who does not want it. New Democracy and the PASOK, after ten years of failure, reached an announcement in the early 2010-2020s, but until 2014 it did not do anything. It was a bubble with a nice wrapper, nice slogans, saying too much about foreign capital. But let's see the reality. It's very simple. When did the foreign funds leave the Greek investment? To a Government of New Democracy and other than a Memorandum. They told us about foreign funds, Mr. Georgiadis said they wanted investors to leave. These funds were left in investment and investment within the Memorandum and with a SYRIZA Government and left foreign capital and foreign investment in the New Democracy Government and without a Memorandum. And what did we see in the years when SYRIZA was government? Great reforms were made at that time: the integrated development plan, the urban organisation, but also a new contract that gives more green, more public spaces and forward investment to actually have jobs and jobs, but honest, clean jobs. The urban organisation, the integrated development plan, is a truly high-level and painful task, not to create a group of Mr. Stagiras, who was gazing at the fact that within the twenty-four things he did was to set up a working group at the Ministry. We must tell you clearly: In 2014 neither topographically was there, nor were the bodies that were in the area, nor forests, nor archaeologically and finally, the one week of institutional arrangements that Mr Mitsotakis wanted - this announced in Patras - has become twenty months and we are still waiting for the contract and the advance, because in today's bill they are amending this obligation again and allowing them to start works without a contract and without an advance. What, however, existed in these twenty-four acts or four pages of Mr. Georgiadis? Amendments to amendments. That's what New Democracy does. It has changed the same arrangement, for example, three times. As regards at least the public spaces that are in the municipalities and then we go back to LAMDA and then go back to the municipalities, I see PPP on 30 September, I see on 12 February again changing competence and changing the law on 30 September 2011, on 18 November 2011 and on 12 February 2020. So there is no need for twenty-four acts, Mr Stakoura, they need a hundred and twenty-four. If you do three and four times changes to a specific article that you made. And then come after too many changes in height, in the marina, in the parking places, in the independent engineer, in the right to surface and make the very big change to get the responsibility of demolition the Ministry of Development. And what about the demolitions? Let's make it clear because no one's answering. Mr. Georgiadis says he was unauthorized for demolition. But we see that by his decision under number 60732-12-6-20, he approved the demolition work himself. And he tells us he's not in charge. Indeed, Mr President, we have tabled not one, three questions, and I ask them again in Parliament, in which we have asked for all the information on demolitions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He tried to teach us, Mr. Georgiadis, that we didn't testify to the right ministry. But come on, where the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is receiving the questions and did not respond, as the Ministry of Finance is receiving questions, and Mr Georgiadis did not answer, and Mr Georgiadis did not sign the demolitions and he did not answer! In fact, by law, which has been changed several times, it took responsibility then, on 12 February, it changed it again, of course, to reach the conclusion that it is quite simply written by the signatories of the demolition - because it says 'Spyrid - Adonis Georgiadis' - that he is unreserved. So we have an irresponsible Minister in the work of the Greek, irresponsible to Mr. Chardalia for the pandemic in Thessaloniki and all this in writing within the Greek Parliament. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But at least does the project progress according to needs even now? No, Mr Stakoras does not go too far on investment for two reasons: firstly, because they do not have the ability to do the right jobs, and secondly, because they serve the investor's interests continuously, they do not serve the interests of the public. Are there any issues in the distribution and performance of space? Of course, there are issues relating to the calculation and inclusion of the public, public and social return projects and thus the investor's percentage is amended for its benefit. Is there a false map in the distribution? There is. Mr Stakoras is here to say that the wrong map is not valid, but it is true that this is not the case. And the landscaping Agency. So he admits they've put the wrong map in the distribution. It is an indirect assumption of that of their own fault. They also accept the mistake they made about the fences and change it with their own legislative. So there was a mistake in the draft law, as we were all saying, and we do not forget that 'LAMDA' wanted to close this urban unit. It is not yet clear whether it was intentional, Mr Stakoura, or wrong. Whatever's true, it was your fault, though. You admitted all this today. Is there a question of the right to surface? Sure. It is permitted to split the land right without the consent of the owner of the land. It is not ensured that the Greek State will get the property free of charge and for the first time the right to surface leads to the fragmentation of the land, that is, they do, as the legal association said, the right to land ownership. Are there any issues concerning the performance of work? Sure. Once again, work is permitted without the contract having been completed, and it is assumed that distribution is the last one. There are, therefore, serious issues that are created with what the government has today put to the detriment of the public interest and in the interests of the investor. However, there are some other amendments. I will say it very quickly, Mr President. The amendment on the preparedness of the amendments is a very good amendment. Firstly, it was not consulted and the institutions did not come here to say their opinion. Secondly, it is an ineffective regulation because it does not contain either the demolition costs or the land, nor how the property is solved, nor what the demolition criteria are - look at: it refers to the 1929 regulation on demolition criteria - it does not say whether maintenance, partial restoration, complete demolition, changes the nature of areas with cultural content and degrades the Ministry of Culture. The regulations also provide for the use of employees of the Building Environment Observatory, i.e. building centres which the Government of New Democracy has not served. Of course I must tell you that there are very serious issues to be addressed by the structured services. It is not what we and the Technical Chamber of Commerce are proposing, that is to say, recording, administering construction services, incentives with land bank and building factors and roles of public bodies which are not recognised in the amendment. Mr President, I am closing with the last amendment tabled, which is quite a big one. I have to say first of all that this amendment abolishes the electronic identity of buildings for public contracts, that is, the government does not extend, suspends the electronic identity of buildings, which is a major reform, abolishes it and I ask you to pay attention to it. So in this amendment "the important urban tool" I now say the words of the Ministers of the Mitsotakis Government "which shields the property, connects digital and electronic infrastructures and is the last step towards the normalisation of the arbitrary structures" is abolished for all public contracts, for all interventions and not just for specific projects, or if you want even for six months for ramps, for accessibility of HEIs or even for energy-saving projects, it is abolished as a whole. The second one on the inside, the extension of an autopsy certificate, which has now been extended for six months, notice what it can create: to sign a certificate in January and until further amendments have been made and possibly arbitrary within the property, so there is a serious issue with the rule of law, on the basis of the legal instrument and with the safety of the legal instrument. In legal terms, Mr President, I wanted to ask this question, but I was not allowed by the President-in-Office, the eighth being involved in the extension of the certificate of engineer and the possibility of regulation. And we ask: are you opening a new window to allow for arbitrary regulation abolished by Mr Hatzidakis at the end of October, and now the electronic identity of buildings had to be opened and it had to be done correctly? Are you opening multiple windows? And I ask: is this some kind of election ruffe? Here too many windows open in both arbitrary and engineer testimonies, but also in the statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u239	Let me remind you of the obligation you have at 19.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u240	I shall close, Mr President, and thank you very much. Of course, I must say that in the local town planning plans, Article 3 of the amendment opens a window to be the Technical Chamber of Contractors for the preparation of local town planning plans. In another article, it notes the great delay in the work of electromobility and in Article 4 of the amendment, the functions of the metropolitan bodies on spatial planning are abolished, all transported to the KESYTOVA, perhaps to pass some approvals until the National Spatial Planning Council is established. No metropolitanity, Athens and Thessaloniki, no regionality, but only one Athenian state with centralisation of decisions, and not with scientific criteria. Not to say about the skis that get a back door and come out of authorisation and many other things contained in the amendments. I think, Mr President, that there is a serious issue and incompetence, but also a political targeting of the government. In any case we have to say that such amendments - it does not allow me to present them all - cannot come without consultation and can only come to normal draft laws. Not again Friday night amendments. Again, these were submitted by the Ministry of the Environment Friday night. It is a bad system to the detriment of the Parliament, but more to the detriment of the Greek society. And unfortunately, the New Democracy is working to the detriment of the interests of our country and of the citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, have you been informed if we're going to interrupt the meeting for tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. Femello. Mr. Loverdos, we're gonna go out on a regular basis. You surprised me. I didn't have that kind of information. We're gonna go out on a regular basis. Until the Step is ready, I will give the Minister of Finance the floor for a minute. Mr Ragosi, you have asked Mr. Georgiadis. He's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Ragus asked me to do this, and I came right over!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u244	If you have a machine...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u245	I will speak for a moment, first of all, to be absolutely reliable to Mr Ragosi. I said before that there are too many e-mails sent to the former Minister of Finance and told him to set up a working group. I have an indicative report from February 6, 2019, which called for immediate setting-up and setting-up of a relevant TIAD working group and a Ministry of Finance to start a discussion and preparation on this issue. Nothing happened until summer 2019. As far as the last colleague is concerned, I will not comment on his misgivings, nor his own arguments, but there is a serious question of the credibility of the Officership. You said, Mr President, that what we are voting on today is to the detriment of the interests of the public and of the interests of the private. But you're voting in the first place. Are you voting for this and saying that it is at the expense of public interests? Is this a serious Civic Opposition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u246	Mr Brutsis normally has the floor, but Mr Georgiadis will answer for a minute first. I won't put any time. Please! Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u247	I have come, Mr President, only because Mr Raguss has asked me to withdraw this questionable picture, because it is a fake. Isn't that what you asked me to do? I can't know if they're make pictures. You say so. However, in order to avoid any impression in the Minutes about what Mr Tsipras said, I present a poster of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance "The Greek is not sold" - what the banner said, i.e. to see if it is fake - the President of SYRIZA Alexis Tsipras and the MPs II of Athens Rena Douros and Nadia Valabanis. Take it! [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Greek event organized by the newspaper "AGEY". Mr. Tsipras told us that he allegedly did not disagree with the Greek and the investment, but with some of his details. So I read you from "AYI" what Mr. Tsipras said at the relevant event in 2014: "For us, the Greek is not a project, but a statement of soul. It is the model of self-management, of cinematic and collective action. It is the alternative to society, the economy and the environment." Take it all for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u248	For the photo?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Polakis, your Parliamentary is here. He'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u250	And of course, the most famous of all, his statement to Nikos Hadjikolaou: "If SYRIZA is to come and approve or ratify agreements such as the one made in Greek, then people better vote Antonis Samaras." So take them for the Minutes! So, true and picture, because what the photo says, Mr. Polakis, more and more has been said by your Chief at the time! So don't fool us! With regard to what Mr Paulakis said against me earlier, Mr. Paulakis was reading to make fun of this House...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u251	Minister, we've called for your picture. Don't go to Mr. Polakis now, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u252	Wait a minute, Mr. President. There's a second staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u253	There's no staff. DESCRIPTION - ADONIS GEORGIADIS (Minister for Development and Investment).The Ministerial Decision of 12 June 2020. It has, however, forgotten - and I give it the whole - the ministerial decision of 29 June 2020, where it says 'the buildings of regions B, C, D and A'. Take that one for the Minutes, too. [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned Ministerial Decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] When we say in a urban plan "regions B, C, D and A" is not building B, C, D and A is the minister, but they are the entire building blocks. You're gonna call me a liar! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u254	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Polakis, tell your parliamentary representative to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u258	The truth is, he told you "fake". Here, just have a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u259	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It wasn't heard) 'cause I didn't do the Minister, and because we don't have the same education, when you're addressing me, you're talking with evidence! Demolition started in June, one year later. You went out here a while ago and told us you demolished ninety buildings. I can prove that the ministerial decision you voted on on 12 September speaks of five buildings, from 294 to 298. These are five buildings, not five blocks. Secondly, I personally went to September and took videos outside the Greek and there was no one, but no bulldozer and you went out and said that I didn't know that the project was over. So, you demolished ninety buildings in three months? Where do you live, Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u260	Good, Mr. Polakis. The rest in your speech! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u261	Where do you live? Tell us about it! That's what you said back then? And you have the nerve to go out and insist!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Polakis, please! The rest in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u263	Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u264	It doesn't have a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Ragus reported you filed a fake photo. And you insist!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u266	That's what your Parliamentarian will say, Mr. Polakis! Please! I will give the floor to your parliamentary representative for the photograph.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u267	I'm hanging up. Stop for a minute! If you take it that way, let's go count it! Let's go count the buildings!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u268	Good. The rest in your speech. Mr. Ragosi, close Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u270	Would you like to reply to Mr Ragosi, Mr Georgiadis? I'm sure it will be necessary. Mr Ragosisi, you have the floor as soon as you can for the photo, because that's what's serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u271	It is to your credit, Mr President, that you have pointed this out from the very beginning. Mr. Georgiades, you have had a chance to avoid this unprecedented slander and humiliation for the Minister of Government, to come here and say that the photo you delivered to the Minutes is correct, reliable and true. Not only did you not do that, Mr Georgiadis, by proving that a moment ago on this crucial issue that concerns this bill, you acted as a vulgar troll of the Internet, but you proved yourself completely inexhaustible politically, because you did not have the courage to apologize for the inadmissibility you have committed. And in any case, the Greek people do not suspect him, the Opposition and the MPs you have written them in the past of your shoes! This vulture, the historic party you have the honour of representing, as his Minister of Government, do you not regret it? Do you understand what a dirty page on the New Democracy you wrote today in the Greek Parliament, to come here as a disguised Internet troll, to deposit a fake photo? We invited you to come back to recognize a mistake that could have been made by a human being, lured by counsellors who took him into his neck! Instead of coming here to apologize and withdraw from the Minutes what you have tabled, do you continue with the ridiculousness you say? Mr. Georgiadis, be careful. Take one step down under the previous one. I repeat that we do not have the problem. In the end, we'll declare you a great sponsor. The problem has with your party, the lots of fans of this party, who see a Minister of Mitsotakis coming here and move fake, make photos. And I'm resenting the photographs for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Ragussis, for the Minutes of the above-mentioned photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Anointed, Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u272	Mr President, I can have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u273	Here you go, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Ragossi, you probably didn't understand me. Whether it's true or not, the photo I can't know. You claim it...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u275	You brought her! You filed it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u276	Mr. President, may I speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u277	Yes, of course. Mr. Ragossi, he didn't interrupt you! You'll hear him!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u278	For three minutes you've been exaggerating me! Now you'll hear!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Ragossi, please! He heard you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u280	This is how parliamentarianism works. Sit down, Mr. Ragosi!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u281	Mr. Georgiade, please, lower both tons! Mr. Ragosisi, you will be answered! He didn't interrupt you! Please! He's right! You've been talking for three minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u282	I didn't swear on you, Mr. Georgiadis. I've been describing you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u283	Here you go, Mr. Georgiadis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u284	I will not describe you with phrases such as 'you are degraded and you do what you do'. I will stick to the essence of the parliamentary dialogue. You claim the photo is fake.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u285	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u287	You're right. Mr. Ragosi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u288	I'm sorry, Ragus teaches us parliamentary lessons. There's some limits on this whole thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u289	Mr Ragosi and Mr Polakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u290	Again, you claim the photo is fake. I answer you: I was not present at the demonstrations against the Greek, so I cannot know whether it is false or not. What I can know for sure is that what the photo says and much more was then constantly told by Mr. Tsipras at the official events of Dawn in the Greek Parliament and everywhere. So your sensitivity to photography is pure hypocrisy. As far as Mr Polakis is concerned, I will say that if the House understands this, Mr Paulakis refers to a ministerial decision of 12 June.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u291	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Polakis, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u293	There's a second ministerial decision. With regard to the presence of Mr Polakis on the site - he said in September - there is also in my Twitter that the post was posted in the beginning of November, and it was stated in the decision that the construction site would have been closed by 30 October.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u294	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u295	So Mr. Paulakis went and made an autopsy in the Greek area when the work had expired and the construction site had been solved. That's why you didn't find bulldozers, Mr. Polakis, when you went. You've been retarded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u296	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that, after consultation with all the groups in Parliament and in order to facilitate all the speakers, I propose that we conclude today with the speeches of all the speakers with a natural presence, as well as the parliamentary representatives, which we count at approximately 23.00 p.m. I suggest that we interrupt and continue tomorrow after parliamentary scrutiny, after 10:30. In other words, let the speakers with 'WEBEX' speak, that the rapporteurs and speakers should be seconded and that we conclude with the roll-call vote on the principle of voting and voting on the articles and the whole bill. Immediately afterwards, we will enter the debate of the two sanctions of the Ministry of Digital Policy. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u297	The House unanimously agreed. Mr Dionyssis Stamenitis has the floor from New Democracy and beautiful Pella.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my position on today's ratification, I should like to comment on something that has been heard by SYRIZA colleagues and I am referring to televised education, so that we can put things in a row. It's good to tell the truth. Finally, in this country, we are going through too difficult and good to tell the truth. The contract for the provision of telecommunications between March 2020 and January 2021 provides for the free provision of the platform. In other words, translation: not one euro to the company for telematics for the year 2020 until January 2021. After February 2021, we obviously had to continue telematicing - unless we do not agree with that - and what happened then? The existing contracts negotiated by SYRIZA and signed them were used. When? On 4-7-2019, three days before the election. That's the reality. Free teleworking until January 2021 and then with the SYRIZA Government's conventions from February 2021 until now and we hope that this will be completed. What have you said so far? Isn't it a crescendo of populism? You are unable to exercise a substantial opposition. Produce fast news, fly mud into the fan. Unfortunately, apart from populists, you are also fighters of teleworking, a huge success and indeed a conquest achieved by the educational community, unfortunately. What are we talking about today? The ratification of the Greek Convention, i.e. it regulates issues relating to this great investment of the Greek, an excellent investment for our country that will make a significant contribution to the development of the economy and contribute from a difficult period created by pandemic in the new era of rapid growth. As we all know, this is the largest project in the Mediterranean region with many economic and social benefits. The project will contribute to strengthening GDP by 2.4% by the date of its completion. We are talking about an investment of EUR 8 billion, it will create seventy-five thousand jobs in full operation and the ten thousand will be estimated to be created during the construction phase. The Greek State will receive over twenty-five years of over EUR 14 billion through taxes. It is therefore very encouraging that a flagrant investment, which will bring about as much as any such activity in the country's GDP, is moving forward - step by step and takes flesh and bone. Ladies and gentlemen, the example of investment in the Greek, as well as investment in the mines of Halkidiki, which we discussed here last week, proves that the Greek Government, since its taking up its duties, has moved on to a change in the budget policy mix. He proceeded without delay with the reforms. Legislation by looking at the creation of an environment that is investment-friendly. Moreover, to a very large extent, the choices of the first year of New Democracy's governance have worked decisively so that the economy does not fall apart from the serious consequences that pandemic has caused in combination with all these measures that have taken over the entire period. So the structural changes that have been made, and that continue to be implemented, have changed the country's image and have given its profile features that make it more attractive and more friendly to investors. The Minister for Finance, Mr Stakoras, told the relevant committee that large companies, such as 'MICROSOT', 'VOLKSWAGEN', 'PFIZER', come to the country in order to invest, but also to create good jobs and many jobs. This is the result of hard work, concrete planning, but also of great effort and efforts by Greek citizens. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, has not lost sight of the dangers and problems created by the emergence and spread of the coronary, as much as the Vice-Presidents are trying to present a different picture, in my view, of a profoundly hypocritical attitude of opposition, but of a profoundly embarrassing nature. The facts, like the facts, say other things. For example, the events say that our country in the middle of a pandemic managed to issue a thirty-year bond for the first time after 2008, and in a very successful way, as significant demand has been made, 2.5 billion euros have been raised, and at an extremely low borrowing cost at 1.96%. What does that mean for our economy? Improving the viability of the Greek debt, market confidence in the Greek economy, but above all it marks the full return of our country to international markets. Markets trust the country. Investors trust the country. The international press confirms this positive climate that exists today. See the publications of ‘TELEGRAPH’ and ‘BLOOMBERG’. The Greek economy has less recession than other developed industrial economies in Europe. In fact, ELSTAT's provisional data showed less recession than anticipated and far less than you said. But also on the job side, Greece has the second best service to maintain these after Italy. In the context of these, therefore, the investment in Greek is also a central pre-election commitment of the New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. And the commitments were made in this case too. The necessary steps have been taken to remove obstacles. We all know that we are talking about investment with complicated procedures and a high degree of difficulty, which unfortunately the previous government has done almost nothing. The Minister told them in detail today and last week about what was not done in SYRIZA and about what has been done since July 2019. Today, therefore, by voting on this draft law, it unfolds and reopens a new door towards implementing this great investment, and this is an important success for the country. Mr President, I would like to close by saying a few words about an amendment tabled by the Ministry of Rural Development on the operation of the IMPs, which gives a solution to the administrative problems arising from the failure to convene general meetings due to the measures taken by the pandemic. In other words, it is foreseen that the decision of the General Assembly by adopting the AEB budget may be taken either by rotating or by teleconferencing or by any appropriate telecommunications instrument. A request is met by all the organizations and farmers in the country and it is demonstrated daily that in all areas the government is looking to find and give solutions to the difficulties that the pandemic has created. Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the last route of an unprecedented procedure. It makes sense to have fatigue. But what we need to think is that the end of the route finds our country to have done well. Greece, thanks to decisions taken, in the efforts of the citizens, in the huge battle of health workers, is doing better in both the field of health and the field of the economy and the labour market. The choice not to stop the legislative initiatives implementing the reforms, the new mix of fiscal policy, the success of obtaining EUR 72 billion from the European Union through the Multiannual and Recovery Fund, gives the Government the necessary tools to exploit the country's comparative advantages. We transform our economy, building on solid foundations, so that Greece can finally jump into the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr Stamenitis. As there are questions, the rapporteurs will also speak tomorrow. Today we are normally going with speakers in a natural presence and as long as it goes, I imagine until 23.00 p.m. Mrs Catherine Papanatziou has the floor from SYRIZA and our beautiful Magnesia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve a comprehensive result for the draft law, we will have to remind ourselves of some things. Let's see when the investment actually went on to the Greek for the benefit of the Greek public and the Greek society. So much is bothering you that Minister testifies to you even make photos. The site of the former airport was released in 2001. No plan and no further preparation had been prioritised until then, and only in 2006 the first project to make use of the space was submitted. On the substance, until 2011 there had been absolutely nothing. Apart from communications with various investors, no proposal on the substance has been made. We arrive in 2015, where the SYRIZA government receives a rough contract with a wrong topography. This contract improves it in several parts, benefiting the public and becomes a law in 2016. This amendment has successfully faced several obstacles over the past few years and has, in any case, completed or launched all the abstractions concerning the adoption of the integrated development plan, the establishment of the management body. The Greek park's KHS was then issued, while the issue of the two remaining KHS, the urban areas and the development areas was in a final stage. We need to know these to see the size of the work they have done over a period of four years compared to the last twenty years. This is to finish with the account of freezing investments in SYRIZA or pro-developmental New Democracy. At the same time, in order to allow nothing to hang, we should mention that the 2016 Convention amended the individual terms of the Share Sales Contract as regards the timetable for the payment of the price and the implementation of the investment obligation by the investor, the construction of specific projects and infrastructures of public interest, the overall construction of the property, the maintenance of some of the existing facilities. This was done with the aim of investing in protecting the public interest and the benefits of returning to society. The changes mainly concerned issues and obligations that clarified the ambiguities of the original contract in order to make the project more efficient, with a social and environmental sign. What are we observing in today's bill? We note that the way calculated 30% of ownership over the entire property by not removing the public benefits, C.E., C.E.F., C.E., which cannot be transferred, because they do not belong to the private property rights of the Greek State, is at the expense of the Greek State and for the benefit of the investor. It takes on the essence of more ownership. We also note that the agialos and the beach are not, and rightly so, part of the subject of the contract, but it is necessary to check that, on the basis of the coordinates, they remain outside the contract. I have also asked the committee for information on what is happening with the old caucasus. It's not clear from the draft law at all. I haven't even received an answer from the Minister who spoke before. As illustrated by the contract, the purpose of the buyer is to partition and sell the land, which means that it will be involved vaguely and in any case a large number of third parties and will subsequently be lost any control of the project by the State. This is the first time that it has been mentioned that the land’s right to land leads to land fragmentation. On the substance, it alters the nature of the right to land, reduces the value of the property as soon as it is returned and makes the right to land ownership. A final point on the amendment by the Ministry of Finance you tabled. The devices shall be in the line ‘seeing and doing’. It should be noted that, with VAT reductions, companies do not save themselves, especially if we are talking, for example, about film projections, which is also funny to reduce VAT to something that is closed. At the same time, the coverage of the market by the Ministry of Finance through the donation account shows both the deficit and the communication management of the health crisis. Similarly, the lack of a coherent action plan for the country's heavy industry, tourism, leads you to discounts that affect the conscientiousness of the Aegean Sea and the citizens' access to it. A final point on Article 9 of the amendment on the removal of the status of municipal road. Minister, we had the limitation in order to minimise the risk of an accident. We didn't do it for another reason. Think of the waiter crossing national, even provincial, to serve. I think there should be at least a restriction not a national road or a highway in general. It's very important for the safety of people who serve them down the street with the homogeneity you give. In closing, we, unlike you, recognize what happened twenty years ago with the Greek. We know that an investment, in order to have a depth and a resistance to time, must primarily have legal certainty and be reciprocity to the respective local society. That's how we moved. In the opposite direction, you move. Your supposed development logic collapses from the stagnation of all the important interventions that were started by magic in 2015. What we have been pointing out here these days is in terms that may have an effect on the contract and may have a definitive effect on the project. What was to be done by the New Democracy Government was to complete the competition for the casino licence, to issue the two of the three joint ministerial decisions that were working, the distribution act and the transfer of rights. On the contrary, for over a year and a half the government has, through amendments to irrelevant bills, tabled amendments aimed at favouring the investor, but not at investing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mrs Papanatsiou, and thank you for keeping time. You are a lady with a capital as always. To thank through my heart here Mr. Bagioku's team, as three times the girls and boys changed the list of names. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis is hereby called on to step up the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u302	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by following Mr Tsipras and the SYRIZA Members, I think he will feel a feeling of confusion, a confusion which has to do with a joke, which says that in their record, as a whole, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group is trying to convince that SYRIZA is the pro-investing party and a party, while the New Democracy is counterfacting investment. This is exactly what one of the SYRIZA Members' positions and the SYRIZA President himself receives. This is really a joke, if, unfortunately, it was not a sad reality, a reality that has to do with balancing an issue that is very important for the country, the biggest and most symbolic investment that will play a role in our national economy, in jobs, in attracting investment, will affect the whole of the country's Gross National Product over the next few years and will contribute huge numbers to public revenues in the next twenty-five years. It's the Greek investment. And what did Mr. Tsipras try to say? Mr Tsipras tried here to say with the SYRIZA MPs two things: that they in four and a half years did everything they could to implement and run and accelerate the investment, while on the contrary the New Democracy braked it. Let's see what the truth is. Even - even the positive position of Mrs Perka in favour of the bill and they will vote positively, which is welcome, is questioned by Mr Tsipras himself and the MPs and parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA, who said quite simply that this bill at the end of the procedure does not benefit the investment, but the investor. So here's another oxymomile shape. You're really going to drive us crazy. Do you vote for a bill that you yourself say that instead of helping investment and the country, does it help specific persons? How do you explain that? In other words, once you decide to do something good and do it in the wrong way, SYRIZA gentlemen, because it is not otherwise explained here for half an hour, Mr. Tsipras trying to convince that the entire bill is in a wrong direction because it helps the investor, so it is wrong to arrest him and his content, and at the same time to be in favour. In fact, you need to see it internally in your party, because these internal ambiguities really lead to the world that is following conclusions, which create many questions about the SYRIZA's attitude and its position as a whole. It's your problem, we're clear. And we are clear, ladies and gentlemen, because very simply this investment, the very important, the emblematic for the country, is an investment that was launched by Antonis Samaras who envisioned it, has been criticised by us by SYRIZA as a government that braked and blocked the process. I would remind you that that "No Greek is sold" was not said by Members of the New Democracy, nor by Kyriakos Mitsotakis, nor by Antonis Samaras. SYRIZA MPs and Mr. Tsipras said so. I also remind you of the stumbling blocks you put with the cormorants on other types of investments or the demonstrations you made so that the Greek investment would not proceed. New Democracy didn't do it. SYRIZA did it. Now your mutations are your Calderated problem is that you get on a right path, but don't come here to do us the investment and investment climate pricers for the country and that you're more ahead of us and that we didn't produce work. The truth is that in our effort to run and accelerate the process of investing the Greek, this very important investment, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Development ran this bill with the specific legislation, because only with them can we speed up the process. I would like to say a few figures because people are watching and there is a public debate in this House, to describe how important this investment is with some figures, which we all need to know. The investment is the largest park in Europe compared with the rest of the countries. Secondly, its size is two million square meters, two thousand acres, and it is the core of connecting the marine front with the mountainous volume of Hymittos and a major and necessary green lung for the urban fabric of the country. Thirdly, the investment will reach EUR 8 billion. Fourthly, seventy-five thousand new jobs are expected to be created in full operation, contributing to 2.4% of GDP by the date of its completion. And it is estimated that the tax revenue for the Greek State during the twenty-five-year investment activity of the project - construction and operation - will exceed EUR 14 billion in income taxes, corporate taxes, insurance contributions, real estate taxes and VAT. This is the investment we are discussing today, an investment for which the current Prime Minister himself as Chief of Staff Responsibility has made a commitment in the election that we will do everything we can to speed up its implementation. And that is what the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Development and the entire Greek Government do today, because it is an investment, which is a legacy for the next generations of our country, is an investment that will also change the overall investment map in the country, is an investment that will create seventy-five thousand jobs, an investment that you now come and look positive about. I would remind you, however, that you were those who prevented it in every way possible to implement it during the Antony Samaras period. In any case, your attitude is welcome. The criticism we are doing today is the oxymomile shape. SYRIZA's rapporteur should be placed with "yes" in the bill and SYRIZA's own president and SYRIZA's MPs say that there are dark intentions and interests in favour of the private. That's your thing inside. We must show it for your internal contradictions and inconsistencies. Secondly, Mr Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen, it is here. I am succeeding for the second time in such a position as Mr Tsipras, which is a little - very - very stimulus in the thinking of Mr Tsipras's positions from here and in the future. So far we have known Mr. Tsipras in his place with conspiracy known, with populism, with lies. But it has also added to the previous speech and today something else which, unfortunately, poisons Parliament's procedures, the word'scandal'. So he shows constant scandals, scandals. In his previous position, he dedicated half of his speech to describe the scandals of Mrs Nikolaos. By succeeding at that time Mr Tsipras as Parliamentary spokesman, I said quite simply: if all you say is a reality, why not go to the prosecutor? Since then, a month has elapsed, the news has been lost, but the impression has been that the Chief of Police Vice-Population for the major scandals of Mrs Nikolaos has been placed. Secondly, today Mr. Tsipras came and began to develop for the new scandals: First, the Piraeus Bank scandal. Why is Mr. Tsipras talking? Is he talking about scandals in the banking sector? Does he forget that he was responsible for the loss of EUR 25 billion from the public sector in banks' shares with the practice followed and the policy followed in 2015? Is he forgetting about this? Is Mr. Tsipras talking about infidelity and robbery in the banks with the loss of EUR 25 billion from the pockets of the Greek people? This is called courageous, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and it is not permitted for the Chief of Police to come up with questions without evidence! Here's a splendid field of glory, let the D.A. show them up and not stay here alone, in his original place. Secondly, he spoke of scandals involving the Ministry of Education and Mrs Kerame in particular. So I have to say: I personally, analyzing Mr Tsipras' attitude, say that what he is doing is absolutely hypocritical, because not only does the Minister for Education, Mrs Kerameos, have made a significant contribution to this intervention in the field of telematics. It has ensured the possibility for the entire educational community to make use of this important telecommunications platform completely free of charge, without any costs for the Greek State from March 2020 to January 2021, and in such a way that the Personal Data Protection Authority itself has decided to be fully compatible with the State's basic mission to provide education, which is not contrary to the legislation on the protection of personal data, and that opinion 4/20/7-9-2020 is also available and the website where you can find the decision. I don't know why Mr. Tsipras says it. However, the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is not the targeting of Mrs Kerameo in the description made by Mr Tsipras. He is the guerrilla against Mrs Keramos from education reform. This is the reality and this is behind Mr. Tsipras' attack on Mrs. Kerameos. That is why we should also see what else Mr Tsipras has to say about this. Is he staying here, in the Step of the House, or does he have anything more specific to say? So far, the practice is to say it from a step of the House and to end it all. The other issue is about health. Mr. Tsipras has come and raised the issue of health. Who said here that he's rejoicing? Very enthusiastically, the government MPs, all who went through this Step, said that no one welcomes the situation. We have all admitted that the situation is difficult for the Greek people. We are faced with a third wave of pandemic, which has no precedent and indeed is currently being tested by nurses and doctors and the public health system. However, from this point on until you go to a denouncing, isotopeous reason, which says there was a magical solution, as you usually do, and the government did nothing too far. The reality is, ladies and gentlemen, that this government has raised health from the very beginning of pandemic as a top priority, the protection of public health. Unfortunately, as regards the third wave in particular, it was the most painful impact of pandemic. It's macabre to invoke - and it's not nice - the numbers of health. Sadly, though, when you take such a political criticism, you have to keep your defence. That is, at the moment, the health map of our country, within this third wave of pandemic, with this really difficult situation that we face as a country as a whole, compared to the rest of Europe, and our image is better. I keep the evidence here. Number of cases per million population: one of the best places in Europe, the last, with a better picture of the twenty-seven Member States. Number of deaths per million population. Macaubic number, bad to invoke. Unfortunately, however, we have to compare this political attack by Mr Tsipras. Here again Greece has one of the best performances. As far as most tests are concerned, from the European average, Greece is indeed one of the best performances. We're strengthening the public health system. We're increasing the meths. We got 557 public I.T.s before the pandemic. They have increased by 114%, 1,189 are the public IFs today and if they are added to the private sector, we are reaching 1.410, an increase of 153%. No one says we're perfect. Enemy of good is always the best. However, this and other complaints and isotopics to cancel our efforts, which have to do with man and the great problem faced by Greek society at the moment. At last, help a little! Submission of a proposal, not just a declaratory reason. And make a real contribution, because I cannot understand how one can interpret the concept of contribution when at the moment, with evidence presented by the Ministry of Citizen Protection - which I did not know, I was impressed - by your encouragement, in your own direction, there were six hundred and thirty-two meetings - gatherings within fifty days! And half of them were not for government legislative initiatives, they were for Koufontina! Because I think there are many serious Members on the SYRIZA side, I have a simple question as a self-critic, because we have to look into the eyes and say some things that unite us, because dealing with pandemic is a common topic for all of us. You don't think these six hundred thirty - two meetings contributed to an increase in cases? Is there anyone from SYRIZA who says that no, nothing happened, we did the meetings and it didn't affect the pandemic at all? The truth, unfortunately, is that they certainly affected her. Meetings are not exclusive responsibility. Of course not. But I'm sure she was affected by this pandemic image. And it'll be good in the next few days, and as long as this pandemic lasts, we'll all be more conspiring and more careful. I close, Mr President - and thank you for the tolerance - with something that I consider to be very important. I am the generation of politicians who have experienced the difficult situations of our country since 2007: period of memoranda, fiscal adjustment of the country, period of SYRIZA again in an environment of fiscal adjustment, and now, at the time we thought that Greece would put development wings directly, unfortunately, we landed - not only Greece, the whole world - in the face of this unprecedented phenomenon of pandemic. However, we have a duty, a political duty and a duty for all of us, to contribute to the next day, a day that comes, a day that will mean the end of a pandemic, a day that means that the vast majority of the Greek people have been vaccinated, a day when the population of Europe, of America, of which we are interested in tourists, will be vaccinated, a day when the tourist product of our country will once again become attractive and the development of tourism and start running and improving the economics of the country, by increasing the jobs, wages, all that are very important for the country we all believe in and we all want its good. Every government - and at the moment the government of Mr Mitsotakis has it - has a duty and a duty to legislate in this respect, namely, to address today's challenges, and in future terms, that is to say, to open up roads with legislative initiatives for the next day, on the day that comes, on the day of tomorrow, which is of interest to the next generations of our country, which is why we are here today to legislate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u303	Thank you very much, Mr Brutsi. Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou, Member of the Second Western Athens Department of the Change Movement, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u304	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the ratification of the contract for the distribution and establishment of a metropolitan pole right in the Greek and of the regulation of relevant issues, a contract which was signed between the Greek State and the Development Fund on 9 March 2021. The investment of the Greek is certainly an extremely much-discussed investment aimed at the realization of the region and the country in general. This is a project of enormous importance, but a project which, at intervals, was fought, undermined, challenged, became a symbol of so-called economists and militant authorities. We remember them. We must remember all this. This investment, ladies and gentlemen, was initiated at the initiative of our party in the PASOK. Unfortunately, however, until now, it has not progressed satisfactorily. In addition, as an opposition, in addition to the provisions of previous government Law 4422/2016, the SYRIZA Government for the transfer of "ELLENIKI SA", we also voted for the provisions of article 83 of the Law of the Government of New Democracy, which is something that SYRIZA and the other parties did not do and we still have no understanding. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly our difference in the essence of our counter-population and in the general perception of the parliamentary work produced within the Greek Parliament, that whatever is being introduced, must be adopted by all of us for the sake of our society away from micro-political, micro-participatory games. That's the point of our work. More generally, however, we as a Change Movement - and you know that, Minister, ladies and gentlemen - support investment in real terms and really, those investments which benefit the development of the country, the attraction of foreign investments, those which benefit the citizens of this country, and that is why we are also positive. And I think that we all know very well that our economy in particular at the moment requires the establishment of an institutional framework that ensures the country's re-launching at a rapid pace. It is the purpose of Greece and specifically of your Government right now. But it must be, Minister, not just how we gain the confidence of foreign investors, but above all - I will tell you - how our country can cope with the various chronic diseases that are observed in this area, how we can redeem them and how we can go ahead. Only so, only in this way, Minister, can there be a re-launching with fair growth after the years of the crisis. And of course a prerequisite for this is the absorption of funds from the Recovery Fund, so that we can see a real acceleration in the economic process and activity in our country. Mr Minister, but what I would like to stress is that all the things we say here are fine, but there is one point. This work does not begin. We always hear the bulldozers get in, starting next month in a few days. But it hasn't started yet, like the bridge of Arta and this. We would therefore like to hear the exact timetable for the first time. But above all, we want to point out that this timetable must and must be complied with. Because as many times as you have made a statement on this subject, we have not seen the necessary steps to be taken. No timetable has been observed so far from what you have announced. That's the reality, what do we do? That is why questions are being raised. So what were the problems? What's the matter with certain delays? Why is everything going on and the steps are objectively slow? Why does this investment still look like a vision? I therefore think that what is needed is an integrated answer not only to inform the House here but above all to inform the Greek citizens who want to learn but above all to see real and substantial results. More specifically, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that despite the fact that we as a Change Movement voted for Article 82 of Law 4706 to be ratified by law, no public consultation took place, which, of course, did not surprise us because I think it is now a regular tactic of your Government on many issues. And with regard to Article 5, we have serious, serious reservations, as our special speaker, Andrew Loverdos, and our parliamentary representative, Michael Katrinis, said. The reason is that the provision for the construction of fences for the separation of activities and functions even within the same field, despite your reference, Minister, that this is provided for security reasons in the areas involved, remains extremely problematic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It is not clear that this provision concerns construction sites and, of course, creates very reasonable doubts as to whether an enclosed city will eventually be created and whether it creates problems for Greek citizens to access the beach. It is not just us who tell you that we are not the only ones to express to you. But concerns expressed to you by all the relevant municipal and self-government authorities. You gave some answers. She's waiting to see how you can prove them. I close, Mr President, by saying that we sincerely believe that the parliamentary procedure is the most creative part of the opposition. And that's why we're coming out here, not just with jaws and slogans, not with sterile opposition. We come here with reasoned objections and reservations, and above all here we come with counter-proposals, concrete and structured counter-proposals, because we believe that the laws adopted by the Greek Parliament must be good laws, laws and laws beneficial to Greek citizens. That is why we consider it imperative that this investment be implemented immediately and effectively, which will be an important step, yes, for the development of our economy, both by offering thousands of jobs to the tested Greek society and by attracting new investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. Let's go back to Volos, Mr. Athanasio Ljupi from New Democracy. Cretan from Chania, Mr. Paulakis, and then the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment, Mr. Nikolaos Papathanases, will take the floor. Here, Mr. Lippi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after 60 years of operation, in 2001 the then state air carrier was transferred from Greek to Spata. No one imagined it would be twenty years to reach the final straight for its exploitation. And while for two decades everything has been rolling very slowly, over the last two years more than the previous 20s have been achieved. For the first time, the legal arrangements that were prerequisites for the progress of the process have been quickly completed. Today we are closing major loose ends to start this huge investment that will lead us to greater urban regeneration in Europe. An investment with a huge economic footprint and special care for the protection of the natural and settlement environment. This bill invalidates the distribution contract, the creation of a property right of the metropolitan pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas along with the special distribution diagram. The Greek State and TIAD are indivisible members of the property, while by ratification of the contract each side receives divided parts with all their buildings and related rights, personal and property. Any modification of the contract is made by means of the written agreement between the Greek State and the GOI. At the same time, a right to surface on the property in exchange for ninety years is recommended for the GOI. The right to surface is absolutely essential because it enables the construction, demolition and exploitation of specific parts of land. At the expiration of the right to surface, all buildings and structures are returned to the owner. It is explicitly stated that full ownership and surface rights may be transferred as a contribution to "ELELENIKI SA" to cover the increase in the share capital of EUR 911.2 million. Moreover, the share capital of "ELELENIKI S.A." will amount to EUR 915 million. Today’s day is of particular importance for the evolution of this gigantic investment, so that the "ELLENIKI S.A." will acquire the property rights and then transfer 100% of its shares to the investor. Determined for speeding up procedures and better service of the public interest is the possibility for the buyer to start works at his own expense, even before the transfer of the shares in the Hellenic Republic SA. In particular, without the Greek State being blamed at all, the buyer can proceed with construction of certain buildings and a new temporary fence, as the Minister said, for the construction of the "Metropolitan Pole - Saint Kosmas". In any case, the Greek government has to agree to the fence work. The Greek State continues to be the principal in individual parts of the total area, such as the development zone with tourist complex, casino, and the coastal front with marina, with hotels and shopping. Especially in the coastal area, the Greek State owns more than five hundred thirty thousand square meters, while the investor for the two hundred and seven thousand square meters. The bill clarifies individual issues relating to the licensing process for the construction and demolition processes to be followed, as well as for the electricity and gas distribution networks. It is impressive the size of the entire project and, above all, it is of the utmost importance for the government that the rights of the Greek State be fully guaranteed by looking at the future generations that will receive this emblematic investment. The Civic Opposition continues its well-known counterpart, accusing the government of being friendly to investors and not to investment. The truth is that the government is - and must be - open and cooperative when the economic interests of our country are served. The new Greek park will be the largest park in Europe with 2 million square meters of land. The figures are the least sedentary: EUR 8 billion of investment, seventy-five thousand new jobs, support GDP of 2.4%, a large open park, the largest of Europe and one of the largest in the world, a vast green area with six hundred thousand square meters open space and thirty-three thousand trees, a separate area combining green elements harmoniously and uniquely, a huge sandy beach on which everyone will have access, important cultural elements and great commercial and general economic benefits. This is a major project that will drastically affect the social and economic fabric of the municipalities in the southern suburbs and not just. It will change the image of Attica and will be an important development and tourist attraction for all of Greece. For the first time, all of this is not going to go to the ultimate future, but it is a step before it becomes a reality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To close and on the occasion of the two hundred years anniversary of the National Pavlogeiesia, I would like to wish all Greek women and all Greeks strong enough to overcome the difficulties that bring time, such as today's pandemic, to have a strong memory and to revert often to our great and busy history not only because it is glorious and bright, but also because it is full of invaluable lessons about our future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, Mr Lippe, and thank you for keeping time. Mr Paul Paulakis is called to Stepma by SYRIZA, from which I would like to apologize for the tone of my voice earlier. But I will say something to everyone to hear and not just Mr Paulakis. That's not a picture we're presenting. Do you know what the world says, which is very exhausted, seeing these tents in here? I will tell you that I am 'fresh' in here, and I address all sides. People outside say, "What should I go to vote for? Don't you see them?' And what upsets me most is that you're not the ones you show in here. Why, then, should we present such a picture? Too bad, you're wronging yourselves! Here, Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u308	Thank you very much, Mr President. Look, I planned to talk a little differently. However, with what has been said before, I will adapt my speech to them. I'll go as fast as I can, and I'll ask for your tolerance. Minister, Minister of Government, who rises from the Step of the House and deposites false, made photographs to hurt the Chief of Officership must resign. Minister of the Greek Government who goes up from the Step of the Parliament and says without shame that nine hundred buildings have been demolished in the Greek area, when only four have been demolished - what happened then with the "patients" a year later, while you would put the bulldozers ten days after you would have taken over the government - the Minister who tells such lies and insists - and I challenge him to go and measure what has happened - or have to come tomorrow with me or have to resign. The Minister who said that the work will start ten days after the government is taken over by you and then it goes three and six months back and twenty months after you bring the draft law on the distribution of the land - and you do this twenty months after you took over the government - yes, he has to resign. And you know what, Mr. Stakoura? I am telling you very directly that it will not play 50 in Greek. Why? And the Catalan investors are gone, and the Chinese are gone, and the Saudis are gone because they saw what's coming. Only "guns" to Latsi do with this thing. Some are very cracked and you took them back. What were you doing and coming out and clarifying? An enclosed town of a high-quality Elite? What's that? It could be interpreted by some articles, if you didn't fix them, that you're giving Latsis something. I mean, Latsi's left because his sister left as far as we know, and we don't know if he's got that much money. Why do you share millions here, but the 300 million of the first dose, which has been coming for so long, still hasn't come. In fact, you also put them in the 2021 budget, to be paid by the end of the first quarter. They're in? They didn't get in as far as I know. So it goes on in the first quarter and you share millions. So do "hards" to Latsis, which you give him the right to grant from the countryside to third parties, who will give it to others etc., etc. That's what you're doing! "Penia won't play", Mr. Stakoura, because there's no money. The people you've placed will try to grab what they can, because they're not serious investors, as it turns out. They're asking to lend them back to build. They're asking to take the money from the casino to do anything and, of course, to sell the land. And since Mr. Georgiadis was extremely insulting and he was ashamed of what he said earlier, I will give him a gift because he had gone crazy with “Svin” growth - remember it, Mr. Papathanase - because the only real bulldoz that will enter the Greek area the rest of the time you have as country's rule, will unfortunately not be longer than this, this child's game. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So I'll give it to you to give him a present to play at his house with a lego, because another bulldozer in the Greek won't get in. Let's go down. Minister, you have also begun the creative accounting of the recession in the economy. You are not telling me, Minister, because I have found some evidence which is the following. These are from the National Statistical Service. The country's GDP at current 2020 prices was EUR 165.8 billion, 2009 was EUR 183.4 billion. This thing, Mr Stakoura, is not 8.2% recession. Make the simple division, and if you can't, hit the computer there. It's 9.6%. We're going to the first phase of the recession with that percentage. Have ELSTAT give it temporarily - you did not say it at current prices, you said it in volume terms to say 8.2%. The reality is the black misery that beats society and the small and medium-sized ones. This creative accounting, Mr Stakoura, with the recession in the economy, presenting as a success the 8.2% that is 9.6% and that in October 2021 you will take it to 10.5%. Let's go a little further, 'cause I want to say two or three other things, before I say about the pandemic I'm going to say at the end. Today we tabled an amendment, in which there was no talk, as Members of the SYRIZA of Crete and the Cyclades and the Dodecanese. It is an amendment that solves the huge issue that has been created throughout Greece with the suspension of forest maps following the law of Hatzidakis, which, in order to make ruffles to some big landlords, destroyed all the previous work that Socrates Famelos had done with 45% forest maps raised without any objection and has come out to the ports and roads as far as anything. It's not the mistakes. The huge problem that hits the entire livestock activity of the country and in Crete and Epirus and the Aegean and everywhere is the characterisation as forest lands of huge areas that are grassland, are tornadoes, have no forest vegetation of more than 10% to 15%, some wooded fields, which firstly, in the way you do, take them out of the subsidy, that is to say you destroy livestock, underestimate their value, and if they are coastal, you commit them to take them as forests to tomorrow, and if they are mountainous, you call them rocky, but they are subject to forest legislation to take companies, to sit-down wind turbines. That's what you do with forest maps. And Mrs Bakoyannis also comes out and says 'there is no question of ownership'. Well, since there is no property issue, you should vote - and I would like to hear from Mr Amyras - the amendment we tabled that solves the problem and the characterisation of grassland and the question of property, saying that those who have titles that are after 2003, when that law on grassland was made, can safeguard their property, does not enter into the matter of forest land and can continue to support livestock production and agricultural production. And we expect to see whether Mr. Amyras will accept it once the property issue is not raised. Fourth and final issue. Listen, I am not going to mention Mrs. Kerameos because the scandal is not only the 2 million who said it is free, lies here twice from the Step of the House, one from Mr. Philadelphia and one from the Change Movement, that she will not pay the euro for the Greek taxpayer. It is that they have taken all personal data of one and a half million households, which they know and that is where CISCO and the other companies will make huge money. There is this, however, because Mr Brutsi said before, if we have the evidence. We have tabled a topical question for SYRIZA Members since November to discuss this matter in the House and to do so immediately afterwards, but we do not want to talk again before there is a debate in the House, for all we have revealed, about the scandals of Mrs Nicholas, Mr Metarakis, Mr Pierrakakis, the governors of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who are taking them out every day. Yesterday they got one last. It is awarded directly to a company "OPTICAL SOLUTIONS", which is presented as the owner and manager of a Ms Alexandri, a tiny nephew of the Archbishop of America, the daughter of a priest who was at the "SKY GREECE", who was brought by Samaras at the time - his daughter is the lady - who was selling eyelids and now sells latex gloves not sterilized at the price of 8,2 euros the box, when the Hospital of Elijah, for example, buys them from another "lemond" which he also cares about, Lainiotis, at 5,8 euros. Here's the evidence and take it. [[At this point the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And you're going to tell me there's no scandal? He's got political coverage.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u309	Close with the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u310	Two more words. There's a political coverage for the lady. Mrs Nicholas does not even respect the pretexts. And it's the 1% we've revealed and we're asking for a topical question, and you don't set the date to tell all of it and the hundred and fifty we've disclosed, so we can take it together to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, since no prosecutor is appreciated by his monk to ask for an investigation into everything we've revealed with evidence for a year ago. I'm just finishing up with the pandemic thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u311	As soon as you can, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u312	Wait a minute. Today we had three thousand, eighty-sixty-six cases, sixty-sixty-nine soaked and fifty-one dead. We're over seven and a half thousand dead. Is that a success? I want to remind you that when we had a year of forty dead from the flu, you had caught the "doumades" and said that Paulakis and Blonde are killing people. Is that what we're talking about now? It is your failure, your complete failure in the management of the pandemic, with the ineffective and inappropriate horizontal lockdown, without the tests we tell you and the undocumented Scorch has come out to say about individual responsibility of the test at the pharmacy, without there having been any infrastructure or anything. I guess now you're setting up the self test job. It's been taken care of by the company that brings them and you want to show this as well as a great concession. You answered Mr Tsipras earlier and I saw a false post from above to below the Ministry of Health. I, too, challenge Mr. Kikilia and Mr. Kontozamanis, if they have the courage to come and tell us where the two and a half thousand public notices made by the Ministry of Health a year and a year. That's what I saw a moment ago. Where are the two and a half thousand notices? Nine hundred and thirty-five of you have been proclaiming, after you stopped the proclamation we had received in May 2019, you and you re-elected it in March 2020 and since then no one has come. Count the four thousand OAED, count the thousand per cent of ancillary staff, count the ones we had announced in previous years and come after and no one else has hired. Only two and a half thousand people have hired a thousand to the KMY.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u313	Thank you very much, Mr Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u314	I'm telling you this. It's getting out of control. The six hundred ninety-nine that you announced today, can anyone answer how many are out of my mind? Because as you announce, it's like they're hospitalized in six hundred ninety-nine intensive therapy beds. They are not hospitalised in sixty-nine intensive beds. They are calculated - and this is how you announce - with seventy, eighty patients who are out with COVID and are intubated in the chambers. That's what you do and you're not ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u315	Thank you very much, Mr Polakis. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u316	I'm hanging up. I've also told you 15 times and you don't do it and it's a criminal responsibility and the Committee of Infectiouss and Health Ministers personally and the Government as a whole. Bring the antibody treatments. It will reduce those who can go heavily, reduce those who escape, reduce those who die. They've brought them a number of countries. I've been telling you this since approval. You insist not to. And four months after launching the vaccination programme, they have been vaccinated with the two doses of four hundred thousand - so many are - and two hundred thousand who have officially got sick and got sick, that is, six hundred thousand. So what percentage of the population is that? When do we get 60 percent? Don't just go after the vaccines. Get the cures because people are dying now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u317	You've done it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Papathanassis, the gift to your minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u319	Nikolaos Papathanases, Deputy Minister of Development and Investment, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u320	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a very important draft law today. We are discussing the ratification of the Property Distribution Convention and the Establishment of the Property Right of the Metropolitan Pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas. A moment ago in a theatrical movement, I'd say, Mr. Paulakis gave me a bulldozer game. I would therefore like to say something to you, Mr Polakis. You may not understand it, but you should understand it after all. The Greek project started. And you know when it started? It started when the Greek people chose Kyriakos Mitsotakis and his government to rule this country. The work of the Greek since then began. And because I want to talk to you in particular, and I know very well that you want to hear the information, I will go into detail, but you will have to tell us what the articles you do not agree with, so that we can have a more substantial debate. At no point in this debate today we have heard no articles that you are going to vote against.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u321	From Famell, didn't you hear them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u322	We want to hear them so that we can have a debate, Mr Polakis, and to be able to answer exactly what has happened in the Greek. And since time is not enough to be able to discuss, I will go to the very essence of the matter in order to be able to analyse what happened before 7 July and what happened after 7 July. It is very important, then, to understand that immediately after the elections on 7 July - because before the elections on 7 July, all you had done and had done so was a joint ministerial decision dated three days before the elections...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u323	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u324	Mrs. Perka, unfortunately...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u325	Please, Mrs. Perka. He's the calmest. Now I've been saying it. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u326	Mrs. Perka, listen to me. You're an engineer. So you will hear the technical evidence, which is relentless and which proves what happened before and what happens next. So we have the following: I repeat that the only joint ministerial decision, which was adopted on 3 July, that is, four days before the elections, was a decision - a bone that essentially embodied the work of the Greek. That's what you did. Nothing else. And we came right after and made four joint ministerial decisions in just one month. In order for the four joint ministerial decisions to come out, however, let me tell you what has taken place. The first joint ministerial decision was on 28 August. We've been talking for a month and a few days. Within this joint Ministerial Decision, the Department of Environmental Licensing of the Ministry of the Environment had to meet and approve the environmental conditions of the project "Application of the Integrated Development Plan of the Metropolitan Pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas". Do you know why she got out then? Because you have never had the courage and daring to approve environmental conditions. Then he met the Central Management Board for the Exploitation of the Public Property - this was on August 27th - and the joint ministerial decision immediately came out. It was the first joint ministerial decision. This House should understand that without joint ministerial decisions nothing can begin. It was the critical point from there, and it all opened up. The casino competition opened, the discussion on distribution opened, all the procedures that would bring the Greek to an end and would move on to bring it to an end. I told you that what you did not understand is that the Greek has started with many precursors and many processes. All that we are discussing today is procedural and, in any case, Mr Polakis, it is the law that you passed in 2016!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u327	But did you break down nine hundred buildings?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u328	For nineteen sixteen buildings there have been building permits and I can prove it to you. There's a decision. For nineteen sixteen buildings, building permits were released for demolition.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u329	Four down!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u330	Let him go, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u331	So we're going on. You should listen. I will speak as technically and calmly as I can to explain them to you. Because you said "You are giving Mr. Latsis the right to surface", I will tell you: The right to surface, Mr. Polakis, is the right that grants the Greek state, which is essentially its own and will take it back. But you voted for the right of surface in 2016. How do you not recognize it now? How do you not recognize, too, the right to the surface that out of the two thousand seven hundred acres, seven hundred acres are built and two thousand acres become a metropolitan park, which will be remunerated by the inhabitants of the region? And what is built on the seven hundred acres will return to the Greek public when the contract expires. So what are we talking about today and what are we giving 'LAMDA'? What you voted on, which we are simply doing, why couldn't you do? The second decision came out on September 5th, a month and a few days later. It was "Joint Ministerial Decision approving the Spatial Organisation of Life Development, the Neighbourhood of Marina and the Aquarium of Agios Kosmas". These are two joint ministerial decisions which essentially build the entire territorial organisation of the two zones, that is, down the road and above the road. So it came out on 5 September. And when did it start? It started on 22 July. You realise that because you have exercised ministerial duties, as you were Minister, you are aware of the procedures that exist. On 22 July we have the decision of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy to approve the plan. We are talking about July 22nd, that is a few days after the elections. Why didn't you do that before the election? Tell me. Then, on August 8th, a few days later, we have the Department of Urban Planning of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which approves the Study of the Spatial Development of the Integrated Development Plan. Then on August 9th, we have a new decision of the Environmental Licensing Directorate, as on August 19th, August 30th and September 5th. In August the work was not interrupted so that we could move quickly and make the joint ministerial decisions so that the entire Greek process could then be unlocked. So that's what the Prime Minister meant when he said he would unlock the Greek, because the Greek was blocked by hundreds of acts your government had done, so that it could brake the Greek. Because you weren't talking at the same frequency, Mr. Polakis. Another language you speak, another language is spoken by Mr. Tsipras, another language is spoken by your companions. So let's go to the next one, to the third joint ministerial decision on 3 October on the approval of urban studies precisely in urban planning areas. In order for it to come out, four or five decisions have been taken since 23 August and meetings of the competent bodies have been held, which you know were working in August, precisely to unlock the case. On 23 August the adoption of the environmental impacts of the project "Application of the Integrated Development Plan" took place on 12 September and 3 October. The fourth decision came out on 5 September. We are talking about four joint ministerial decisions with work that took place just after 7 July and essentially unlocked, as the Prime Minister said, the work of the Greek. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about today? We are talking about three simple issues in essence. We are discussing the implementation of the Concession Convention. We are talking, in essence, about the share received by the TEAPD, 30% of the land, that is, the six thousand acres, just as was signed with Law 4422/2016, 30% above the coastal road and 30% on the coastal front. That's right, six thousand acres for 30%, a thousand eight hundred acres go to the TIAD. And where are the other four thousand acres going? These are acres that are left in the public, the right to surface is created over two thousand eight hundred acres, because there are the rest that are given for mutually beneficial use, both from the two thousand eight hundred acres - listen - the eight hundred are structured and the two thousand become a metropolitan park at the expense of the contractor. The second is that the procedure for the levying of these property rights is regulated, namely the ownership and the right of the land to "ELLINICAN S.A." in order to be able to transfer the shares. This is EUR 911 million. The Greek public will therefore get 911 million euros. And third, what do we do? Without any exit from the Greek state - and here we have to say that, with the agreement of LAMDA, the Olympic Centre of Xifakia will be used to become a vaccination centre - before the transfer of the shares can take place, as the demolitions have been carried out with precursors, with a contract with which the Greek State has not been charged. That is, it was so strong that the company really believed that it would be the work that went on to do the work without feeling that it was in danger. And you know why he's not in danger, ladies and gentlemen, without wanting to abuse your time any more? There is no danger for one reason because he has a Prime Minister, he has a government that really believes in the development of this country, and he really believes that growth will bring more and better jobs. It's the future of our children, the way we bring our children back. This is the way we all serve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u332	Thank you too, Minister. Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou from New Democracy and the beautiful Prefecture of Elias.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our country is moving decisively towards major reforms that solve problems over the years and produce the conditions for the next day after the pandemic, a day after the two-year anniversary of our release from the Ottoman yoke, in order to create an environment of economic development, with a great weapon of exploiting the resources of the Recovery Fund. These positive prospects for the Greek economy are confirmed by a number of factors: the successful completion of the ninth assessment, the early repayment of our obligations towards the International Monetary Fund and the continuation of support measures for households and businesses until the health crisis is overcome, which is essential support for the Greek society. At the same time, the recent version of the thirty-year bond is the strongest vote of confidence that gives Greece the necessary prospects for a strong presence in international markets, immediately strengthening the Greek economy. This whole positive course is due to the strong political will, to specific initiatives and direct reactions of the New Democracy Government in one of the most critical periods for Greece, but also to the whole of mankind at a time when the National Health System gives a great battle, it is tested daily, but it is endured by the great effort of medical and nursing staff, but also because the Greek Government has taken and continues to take immediate measures to support it. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion is another important step by the Government of New Democracy. Today we are called upon to discuss and vote for the ratification of an agreement on a project that we have been discussing for years, a project which has dealt with not only parliamentary dialogue but also public dialogue in general. The investment in Greek is now a bet. This is a flagrant investment, an investment that symbolises our ability to overcome chronic pathogens, legislative obstacles and ambiguities, bureaucracy and create a suitable investment environment, an environment that will give room for new quality investments and new jobs. In this environment we will strengthen our economy in need of liquidity. We come out of an unprecedented health crisis from which we will have to get out louder and necessary for the next day an investment explosion is needed. Ladies and gentlemen, investment in the former airport of the Hellenic Republic, which is now gaining meaning greater than a simple investment, is now becoming a reality, leaving many benefits for our economy, society and our cultural heritage. By ratifying the distribution contract with the special distribution diagram signed on 9 March 2021 between the Greek State and the GOI as an indivisible circumstance of the distributed real estate, a right to surface on the part of the State to the GOI for ninety-nine years is hereby established. The possibility of transferring the right to surface, whole or part, as the subject of a contribution to the company "ELLENICE S.A.". The procedures for contributing the property's property rights and ownership to cover the capital increase of the Hellenic Republic S.A. are set out. The stages of the procedure are also determined until the transfer of the shares in the Hellenic Republic to the buyer and the entity of the investment. It is of great importance, however, that Article 4 of the bill allows the buyer or his guarantor to issue building permits before the transfer of the shares to the buyer, exclusively for specific tasks without the charge of the Greek State, after prior to the agreement between the buyer and the circumstances of the territory, namely the Greek State and the GOI. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has committed itself to the citizens to the rapid start of the project and this is what it is doing with this draft law, investing in new jobs in our economy and our cultural heritage. After decades of bureaucratic obstacles the investment in the Greek takes flesh and bone. As Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has said, the Greek is a modern environmentally friendly project, an investment hive for our country. Once again, we do not expect the opposition to agree on a flagrant investment. When investing in destruction, in an unprecedented and global health crisis to obtain micro-party benefits, we do not expect her to agree to that, although today her attitude is confused. After all, he fought the investment while he was in the opposition, he unsuccessfully tried to implement it while he was in the government, but he did not have time to do so, and now he's back to the work that Dedicated Opposition knows well. The environmental sensitivities of SYRIZA have been awakened again for a project that has been through two phases of environmental licensing and which is in line with environmental and urban legislation. But it is not the time to talk about SYRIZA's non-existent environmental policy, environmentally friendly only in words. Ladies and gentlemen, the investment of the Greek island shows the way for other investments that are necessary for our country and are also necessary for regions that have room for development in our region, as is the Elias Prefecture that I have the honour of representing. This draft law does not only show the way, but also contains provisions that can form preconditions and open the way for investment in Elias, an area with protected areas and residential control zones in much of it. Amendment 807, tabled in this draft law, contains important provisions to promote Special and Local Urban Plans and allows the Minister for the Environment to regulate the process of awarding, preparing and receiving studies, how to fund them and any other necessary detail, as well as to regulate the administrative and scientific support for the work of the Planning Coordinator, as well as the staffing, organisation and responsibilities of the Technical Secretariat. At the same time, environmental protection is ensured by providing that both local and specific urban plans are subject to a strategic environmental assessment process. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that a flagrant investment is a reality, an investment that was a commitment of our Government. The capital, the West Attica and not just, they change. The Greek is expanding, developing social, economic and labour structures. It is open to new investments that will contribute to the economic, social and cultural well-being of our country and, at the same time, open up the way for other investments and jobs. I therefore urge you to vote on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr Nicolakopoulou, and respect for time, as always. And the next one is always consistent, Mr. Vassiliade from the New Democracy and the beautiful Pella. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate, beyond its formal part, which concerns the "Preparation of the Property Distribution Convention - Establishment of the Property Surface Right of a Metropolitan Pole – St. Kosmas" also has a very symbolic character. The use of the former airport in Greek is a central political issue since the late 1990s. This is a very large investment, one of the largest renovation projects in Europe and at the same time, for an opportunity for the Greek capital to upgrade its role in Greek tourism and in Attica to acquire a green lung that will improve the quality of life of the inhabitants, the metropolitan park of green and recreation. We are therefore talking about a project which is not just about Athens, but which is why the New Democracy has given priority to its election programme. We are here today, then, talking about another implementation of an election commitment from this government. Such an emblematic work, which had sprung from the intransigence and shortcomings of previous years, is now entering the final straight line. The contract ratified by Parliament opens the way to the much-discussed investment worth 8 billion euros, which is expected to create seventy-five thousand new jobs. At the same time, the Greek State will benefit from EUR 14 million over a twenty-five-year period, without even imposing the costs of the investment project precursors. The investor undertakes the cost and responsibility of building the necessary infrastructure, such as the state-of-the-art marina on the coastal front, and provision is made for the construction of the Olympic facilities in an area of two million square metres. The contract under ratification is the product of a multi-month negotiation of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance and the GOI with the investmentor. In the final result, we see a detailed effort to solve technical and legal issues, as well as the ownership of the project, ensuring maximum legal certainty. The new framework allows for a faster and more efficient completion of the investment process for the benefit of all and above all of the taxpayers. Mr President, by following the relevant debates in the Committee on Economic Affairs and, today, in plenary, I note that any disagreements on the position of a large part of the Com mittee on Economic Affairs concern individual issues and not the principle or the whole of the convention. It is good, ladies and gentlemen, that we agree on the importance of this investment for the Greek economy. The broad support of the contract will mark the recognition by the state of the objective value of such an investment and will signal the necessary signal to each optimistic investor that the country has returned and set a development path. The juncture at which we are today, with the consequences of the pandemic having influenced even to a different extent all Greek citizens, makes it more necessary than ever to attract foreign direct investment. These investments, and in particular those relating to the real estate sector, will facilitate the relaunch of the economy. On the occasion of today's debate, Mr Minister, I should like to return to an issue that I have put to you at our own meetings, but also through the procedure of parliamentary scrutiny. I am referring to the chronic problem of the finalisation of pre-sale agreements on real estate which have been drawn up since 1970 and then the large number of tax certificates required for the completion of the procedure. I know that you have formed an opinion on this issue and you have the political will to resolve it. I think it is a good time to modernise the existing legal framework and to limit the bureaucracy that governs it. I would mention, in particular, that in order to finalise a pre-agreement, in accordance with the current framework, citizens' tax information is requested, and in case of a sale by a contractor, a contractor's EMI certificate. The problems created are insurmountable, while many such cases are pending, especially in northern Greece. Given that even five decades have elapsed since the pre-agreements were concluded, citizens are called upon to resolve an unresolved bureaucratic puzzle, so it is essentially impossible to finalise the pre-agreements. In many cases, in fact, the contractor whose ENVY certificate is required has died and are invited to complete the finalisation of the heirs, even for the fourth generation. This reality prevents this property from being declared in the register, retransferring it back and at the same time depriving the State of tax revenue. I therefore call on you, Minister, to consider simplifying the procedure by, for example, abolishing the tax information requirement when a seller is a contractor or the requirement to attach an ENVY certificate to the name of the contractor, if it is annexed to the name of the contractor. To close, Mr President, and returning to the subject under discussion, I think that today a circle that has been opened by the end of the last century is being completed. This emblematic work has passed many tests, has improved, changed several times. At the same time, however, its importance in Greek society and the political forces of the country matured. I therefore call on the House to ratify this convention with the greatest possible majority in favour of the Greek economy and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr Vassiliou. You deserved me already! Mr. Ioannis Mousalas is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Elected in the B3' South Athens Sector. Get Mr. Loverdos ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are debating today in the House is theoretical, but also at a practical level is being examined, a project that has a symbolic and emblematic character for our country, now known as the 'Greek', without much, but that only defines it. The Greek was the banner of the New Democracy, when it was opposition, to be able to demonstrate the logic of SYRIZA. There was no lie he didn't use in that direction. There was no false promise he wouldn't make. That's as long as it was opposition. That banner was a nylon flag. When it became a government, exactly the same objections, the same screenings were made with cartoons, they became jokes. The bulldozers in Greek are one of the most famous Greek anecdotes and it is what the New Democracy paid for the lies that he said, lies that continue, lies that we heard here. It's impressive. They are said with an ease that I, first to participate in the House, have the feeling that speakers do not speak of the House, but talk about their films that will be filmed tomorrow. They lie that here in the House the other man understands, but in a video that will show it on his Facebook he doesn't understand anything. This is done in health, this is done in education, this is done by police violence, this is being done tragically on national issues. We have behaviors where a government official files a take photo and then says: it's not my job if it's a make or it's not. We have cases where it is written that within what the New Democracy Government has done here is the opening of the casino contest and a continuous series of lies that are being shot down by someone else, but the final picture that remains is what was left as an opposition, that is, lies, promises. And I have to stand out here. Let's say I have a feeling that Mr. Stavros didn't come into this category. The political disagreements most strongly, but I couldn't blame him for coming to lie to the House. This is a political disagreement. Well, that's what happened. It's been time, and the Greek has history. From 2000, then, and just before, Mr. Simitis gave this vast garden to the Greek people, until 2014 the Greek was a constant discussion. Mr Loverdos, I think that in an intelligent way he raised issues relating to the illusion of all the political areas in relation to the possibility of such a huge park being actually available. And each of us matured into this process, another sooner and later. But from 2000 to 2014 no government did anything, except the contract with the ‘LAMDA’. There was no topography when SYRIZA received the file. SYRIZA within four years did 85% of the necessary actions to start the project process. Within four years at the same time he negotiated and tried to change heterogeneous elements of the contract that were at the expense of the public and to obtain benefits for the public. So we increased green, increased access to the sea, reduced the height of buildings, guaranteed free access for citizens, created a management body with local public interest, and various other things that are not the time. That's what SYRIZA did. That was before SYRIZA, that's nothing. Today is the New Democracy. We have some facts. We've got a move on foreign funds. In other words, the funds, which were abroad, left the investment. We have a series of night amendments to other bills that we saw concern the Greek and that the New Democracy refused and that they are now coming to button. And we also have today's bill, which I will say very few things later, turns us back and results in a loss, not zero losses, but damage from the so far agreed. I am referring to the public, which is calculated for the benefit of individuals, so 30% becomes 40% and 30% become 37%, which can lead to a change in trading conditions and objections. I am referring to a number of derogating provisions and fragmentation of distribution and surface area plus the burdens that indicate that the New Democracy Government is following the Thacher model in Docklands, which is still afflicting the British State, not Germany, for 30 years now, which is a model project. We have the fence that frightens us, scares us that you're going to have a gated community, which was the original intention. We have the beach that falls from a thousand meters to a five hundred plus. Disappear the bulwart that unites and allows free access everywhere. We have the only thing, that for the first time if town planning does not respond in fifteen days, the permit is considered positive. We have the abolition of the management body. All right, we got all this. SYRIZA, as I said before, in four years' time, handled 85% of the operations needed to proceed with the investment. We want the investment. We believe that this investment can be profitable, it can be an investment that will benefit investors, but it will also be a great benefit to the Greek public. At the same time, we believe that this bill is making fun of our intention. That is no reason to vote against the bill. You'll take the blame. SYRIZA won't take it. SYRIZA will vote in favour of the bill's principle because he wants to invest and because he's too tired for you today to have 85% finished, unraveled. Something you didn't do in thirteen years did, SYRIZA did in four. From there on, on the basis of these, the responsibility for whether the investment will be made, whether it will remain incomplete, whether it will be a fenced city of Latin America, but not in Europe, will be yours. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance is a government force. We are a strong move of protest, but it is much more intense in SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance the element that says it will be the next government or the body of a next government that will oppose the neoliberal plans and practices that you are going to implement. You're afraid that because of you it may not end the work. You're afraid of us for the semifinals of the work. You're afraid of us for enclosed settlements. We're not afraid of you because you're savages. You're crazy. We fear you because you have a dependence on private interests, which is both ideological and practical. That's why you're harming the public interest. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance will be here and will fight with the world, along with the people, any attempt to trample the conditions for green, to trespass the conditions for free tour of people, to trespass the conditions for the sea. And he will try to implement the Greek flagship project. We hope you don't make it so bad that you can make that difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u339	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u340	Minister, he didn't say anything. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. Looking over the Chamber, I think I'm the oldest one here. I'd like to understand the attitude of Officer Opposition. I will repeat that, I have never had a Qualified Opposition to vote 'yes' in the first place and all Members' position is negative for all of the articles of the bill. I would therefore like to ask if the SYRIZA rapporteur can tell us what they will do on the articles to understand, because it has not been placed. Or it's 'yes' at first, and I guess in the articles why it's the main torso or you're voting against it all. There's no alternative. What I hear 'yes' in principle, but is it at the expense of the public interest? So you're saying it's at the expense of public interests and you vote 'yes'? Are you coming and saying that you are afraid of dependence on private interests and are you voting 'yes'? Or you vote "yes" in their entirety, as the Change Movement did, and on the articles. I'd just like to know the posture of Officer Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u342	If the Minister goes to Mr. Famelos' speech, he may have answers to his questions. But here I have a problem with you. They sent me from your party...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u343	There is a rapporteur, not Mr Famelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u344	Yes, but the rapporteur has no right to speak, the parliamentary representative has. What am I supposed to do now? I'm confused by SYRIZA. I've been sent with paper that a parliamentarian is Mrs. Perka while Mr. Ragus is away. Should Mrs. Perka speak or will you speak, are you a parliamentary representative again?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u345	Let Mrs. Perka answer. I want to say something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u346	Mrs Perka, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u347	Well, it's simple, Minister, and I'm probably not very clear - and the President - in my suggestion. Just because we are in favour of an investment, which we have worked very hard on and said we have unblocked it, we have gone ahead - we have said that - I will reply tomorrow to Mr Papathanassis, because I did not expect him - we say that in principle we are in favour. What does it mean for? It means that we want this investment to go ahead. We're in favour of investment. We don't denounce it. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] However, in some articles I have raised all four committees - I think there is no doubt - what we are concerned with and what we are talking about. Article 1 is the question of publicity and the right to surface, not in general, but as amended by the amendments you have brought, weights and so on. And partition. In Article 5 it was the fence and the 'CONDO HOTELS'. With the fence, we'll probably see it again. These two articles are. I think I made myself clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u348	Mr Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached 9 o'clock in the evening, the sitting started at 10 a.m., from the list of speakers has spoken only fifteen and two out of 11 Members spoke. The debate has revolved around the Ministers, the political leaders and the parliamentary representatives. Should we be abolished, should only the parliamentary representatives, the ministers and the political leaders speak in this House? Because I fear that it is a thought I had in years and is getting worse as the weather passes and I see how the debates in this House are being held. I think it is a matter of reflection which should reflect on all of us because, according to the Constitution, our democracy is not a party, it is a parliament, and we often forget it. I made this remark because since the morning of attending the meeting - which is extremely interesting, I do not deny it - my concern about the role of the Member has been reinforced and how his role is diminished at a time that is affected for various reasons and has many enemies of our Parliament, which we want at all costs not only to rescue but also to strengthen it. I am pleased that the debate that has taken place today has been an interesting debate without any doubt. There have been many and interesting sounds from all sides. I am sorry - and I say this to my former journalists - because of all this interesting debate, all I read on the sites is the fight between Mr Adoni Georgiadis and Mr Paul Polakis on who is more baby than the other. I do not think that that justifies the content of the debate of these eleven hours, which is much more interesting than a personal controversy between two political people who had to say other things than this unfortunate exchange of designations. And I am very pleased to hear the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Ragosi, and the rapporteur, Mrs Perka, I have heard how much they want and how much the investment of the Greek is cut. I am very pleased and welcome the inclusion of SYRIZA in the parties who are interested in private investment in Greece. Let me remind you, of course, that before SYRIZA came to power - it was reasonable, another party you will tell me that it was before 2015 - it was strongly against the investment in Greek. He wanted to be a park. Let me remind you that before 2015 SYRIZA was strongly opposed to the investment of "ELLENIC CHRYS" in Skouries of Halkidiki. I would remind you that before 2015 SYRIZA was strongly opposed to its investment "COSCO" in Piraeus, something that had to retrospectively accept and I am glad that he was forced to accept, because this is a good thing for our country's progress. You know, there are major changes in Greece. We, New Democracy, believe that private investment is essential for the development of the economy. Without private investment, without private sector participation more actively in the economy, we will never recover. We also believe that the state has an important role to play in our lives and society as it is today and well for our doctors and nurses for the work they produce in public hospitals and save thousands of lives from the coronary. We want the role of the public health sector, the public sector in education, but we do not want the state - businessman. This attitude that the state could be an entrepreneur is disgraceful to us. This has to end, and that's where we have different perceptions of SYRIZA. It's not bad, it's not bad at all. We have our views, we tell them, the Greek people and the Greek people are judged. But if I may make a small point: society has changed and this is perhaps the most important lesson in recent years. Society is not the society that left and SYRIZA had in mind ten, fifteen, twenty years ago, where the left was hegemony in ideas. Now that's no longer the case. Now people don't want any more gatherings and marches. He's bored and he's sick of flea fucking the gatherings and the marches. Do you know what the people are criticising - and not just the right-wing - society in the government? That it does not dissolve these concentrations, why it accepts these concentrations. People want universities that work for the benefit of students and produce excellence and better degrees. That's what he wants. He doesn't want to be an asshole in the universities. He doesn't want any assholes in school, he doesn't want any occupations. I fear that you have not understood the great change that has taken place in Greek society. The Government of New Democracy expresses this change. That is why he won the 2019 elections, and I am sure he will also win the next election, which, incidentally, will take place in 2023. This is beyond doubt. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] And I would like to end by saying something, because I, on the contrary, respect the Rules of Procedure - and that is why I speak without manuscript - and I respect time too. SYRIZA spokesman, Mr Ragus, because the New Democracy, Ministers, Members of Parliament, do not support Mrs Kerameos, Minister of Education, in what the Chief of Police, Mr. Tsipras, denounced today. The government is unified, it is not the ministers individually. All of us, and the hundred and fifty-eight, support the government and, of course, every minister and Mrs. Kerameou. Besides, Mrs. Keramea doesn't need any lawyers. It has issued a long-sketched communication with arguments and positions and, I think, makes all the arguments of Mr Tsipras abstract. With regard to the resignation of Mrs Kerameo, which Mr Tsipras and Mr Ragus have asked for, I think he has asked for the resignation of Mr Staikoras who is present. Indeed, he also made a motion of censure to Mr Stavoura. He has asked for the resignation of Mr Chrysochoidis, the resignation of Ms. Mendoni, the resignation of Ms. Kerameos. Is there a minister you haven't asked for his resignation? Do you want the government to resign? Uh, we're not gonna do you a favor. The government will remain and not only at the end of the four-year period will have changed the form of society, but will also win in the next 2023 elections to complete its work to liberalise our economy, to change our society towards the better and, of course, to strengthen and strengthen our democratic culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u350	The Minister for Finance has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u351	Thank you very much. I would just like to point out, following the position of the rapporteur for Officerial Responsibility, the irresponsible and unresponsible attitude of the Officerial Responsibility. I understand the attitude of other parties, there is a consistency. What did we hear here? We have heard that, in principle, it is a good thing that European citizenship is a good thing, because it is a good thing for investment. I'm sorry, but we're voting on the principle of the draft law, not investment. The draft law reads: "Preparation of a Property Distribution Convention - Recommendation of a Property Right of the Metropolitan Pole of Greek - St. Kosmas and regulation of relevant issues". That is what deserves to be voted for in principle, not investment. And he goes to the articles, and what does Census say? 'no' to Article 1, which is the ratification of the contract, 'yes' to Article 2, 'no', but 'yes' to Article 2, which says what? - "Consolidation of various issues of the Convention ratified by Article 1 of the Convention". It has voted against Article 1, in favour of Article 2, based on Article 1, and against Article 3, which is the contribution of property rights where the contract is a basic condition. So, here it is completely irresponsible and the post of Officer Responsibility is another. It votes 'yes' at the outset of the bill, not investment - the bill we are voting on, these are the rules of Parliament's 'yes', on the principle of the draft law - and it votes against the main part of the distribution contract, on which the two other articles on which it says 'yes' are based. That's never happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u352	Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u353	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u354	That's not the procedure. It can't go on. After all, you've known the Greek for so many years. You have participated in all positions of government. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, what has been played before all of us today in this Chamber was indeed a terrible blow to the parliamentary process, but also to our democracy itself. And of course I am referring to the statement by the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Development of a fake photo in order to hit the President of the Police Department. The most horrifying of all is that Mr.Georgiadis understood absolutely nothing and leaving here also made a post, which says: "And after the fuss that took place in the House about the make of light, let's stick to the point. Alexis Tsipras started with these and today voted in favour of our Greek law. The rest is a show." What's the point? And I think we all have to accept this together and criticise Mr Georgiadis' behaviour. The point is that Mr Georgiadis is, as I said, Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the State of yours and brought today and tabled in the Greek Parliament's minutes a photograph, a fake document. The point is, once again, he tried to deceive public opinion and he did not have the courage to say 'I'm sorry', 'I was wrong', 'I was fooled'. Although it was not a mistake, because he had posted this photo before he testified it to him in the Minutes and had pointed out to him underneath that this photo is a fake and yet he chose to testify. The point is that you accept it and I have not heard anyone judge it. The fact is, you don't really care about the substance, you don't care what's been done, but you only care about communication. The point is, if he had done this, a SYRIZA MEP, now we'd have a hundred emergency news reports and you'd all be asking for his resignation immediately. On this point, I shall proceed with the bill. The truth, then, is that twenty years ago the area of the old airport was liberated and by 2011, that is, for a decade, nothing had been done and that space was totally devalued. In 2011, the tender and the original stock sale contract was signed three and a half years later, two months before the elections, on 14-10-2014, in the same order, without even having a topographic chart. You were so in a hurry to commit to the next government. The truth is that in 2015 we found only one plot without topography, with sixty nine bodies, which should have left in 2012 and dozens of loose ends in the fields of forest, archaeological and ceremonial matters, which involved the risk of starting any project, suppressing the process and the contest in the Council of State. This was solved by SYRIZA with too much work. SYRIZA, who you are accusing today of not wanting investment and investment, managed to lay the right foundations for the investment and indeed for the benefit of the Greek public and citizens, because in all the problems we found and the loose ends we made sure that we modified the initial contract on 19-7-2016 and brought about substantial changes, as the first contract of 2011 did not even provide a free space or access to the beaches, but provided an enclosed area without any social investment and without any environmental sign. SYRIZA reduced the structure, increased the green space and linked it to the sea, won one and a half billion more investments in infrastructure projects, which the investor charged, changed the schedule for payment and completion of the project for the benefit of the Greek State and made sure that the existing entities within the area, such as clubs, associations of AMEA and sports clubs, are maintained. We have generally made sure that investment is progressed with legal certainty and, of course, by protecting our natural and cultural heritage and we want to see the project finalised precisely for this, because we have done a lot of work because, once it is done, it will be due to our own governance. What did you do? Apart from the election, the Prime Minister said in June 2019 that he would unlock the investment in a week and Adonis Georgiadis would put bulldozers into Greek by the end of 2019, you did absolutely nothing. We saw on 3-7-2020 Kyriakos Mitsotakis, wearing a special yellow vest construction site and engineer hat at the opening ceremony to convert the former airport to a metropolitan park. That's what you called her, opening ceremony. Behind him two bulldozers were tearing down a ruin. All pro-government media wrote with huge titles: "Buldzozas enter the Greek" and the Prime Minister said happy. Of course, because citizens know exactly what has happened, the photograph of Mr.Mitsotakis became viral and the window ceremony was laughing at social media and continues to be. Today, then, the New Democracy has only been able to demolish four of the nineteen arbitrary buildings with public money, while the funds of the state have not yet collected one euro. Of course, Mr Adoni Georgiadis was devastated before Mr Papathanassis, who told us that ninety-sixteen building permits have come out, but in no case have they fallen, you have demolished nineteen buildings, as Mr Georgiadis said a moment ago, and that we have been furiously told that we do not believe him. Of course, how can we believe you, when Mrs Kerameos has assured us for a year that the contract with CISCO was free and finally paid the Greek State 2 million and gave the personal data of one and a half million citizens? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President, I'm gonna need it. While you have not moved forward for twenty months, you have brought a bill that under the pretext of unlocking the project, will create even more problems. Three are the main risks. The question of fence has solved it. You've solved our questions, anyway. You can assure us that there will be no closed city of twenty-five thousand inhabitants. We'll see, of course, that in practice too, because we don't have to make a law on construction fence. There's a law. We therefore do not understand why this bill should be specifically mentioned. Also, on the basis of the bill, the concessionaire acquires the full ownership of 30% of the area of the former airport and the right to exploit 70% for ninety years. 30%, however, acquires it before public spaces are removed, which changes the conditions of the competition. In other words, you're favouring the majority after he's taken the job. Also, in the way you distribute, the public is at risk of losing vast areas. The owner gives the land to the surfacer. He cuts, sells, etc. and this poses a risk to the property rights of the public on the plot.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u356	Please finish, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u357	I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, with an amendment that could be described as a urban scandal you allow the construction of hotels in the off-plan area of the Greek region. The other 'grey' points of your bill were analysed by our rapporteur, Mrs Perka, and of course you never answered her detailed and substantiated questions. It is obvious that you are not doing your job well on this matter, and your job is to defend above all the rights of the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u358	The Greek case is a very big matter. Anyone who has followed it from the beginning and believed in it from the many years that have passed, would understand. If Mrs Perka could have had a debate off the record with others about how a large investment, which she knows very well, should go ahead and how she went ahead with the difficulties she has had - and everyone knows it - today, in my opinion, would be on different terms for all of us. But I would like to tell you this: I was a Member and a member of the sector then and I remember that from 2013 to 2015 a minister asked me to answer for the Greek eight and a half months. Mr Maraveyas has the floor, and then I have a question for Mr Besiropoulos concerning Arcadia and the accountants who have a little issue and I hope he will resolve it for the benefit of the bear people. Thank you. Come on, Mr. Maraveya.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u359	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the contract signed on 9-3-2021 between the Greek public and the TIAD comes to complete the distribution of the areas of responsibility corresponding to the different partners in this huge project, a project that will determine the economic and environmental development of Attica over the next few decades. The start of the investment at the former airport of Greece is consistently one of the most important government development priorities, as it concerns both the entire social fabric that operates around the property and the economy of Attica due to the scope of the investment project. But it also concerns the development of the largest urban park in Europe, which will also be open to the public. This contract mainly regulates issues of contributions of property rights from the GOI to "Hellenic S.A." and specific issues of the execution of works by the buyer of the shares of "ELLENIC S.A." or his guarantor prior to the transfer of the shares. The main result of the contract is that now each consortium receives parts of the land which are fully owned and possessed with their buildings and all static rights, personal and property. Equally important is that there is a new right of surface on the part of the public to the HSED for a period of ninety years, starting from the transfer of the rights from the HSE to the "Hellenic S.A.", with the possibility of transferring rights to the "ELLENIC S.A." or even to a percentage or even total that is foreseen that, with the termination or depreciation of the right of surface, the person concerned is obliged to hand over the possession of the buildings or structures and any horizontal or vertical property to the owner of the territory. Perhaps the most important point is the process of contributing the property's property to the property of the metropolitan pole of Greek - Agios Kosmas from TIADED to cover the increase of the share capital of "ELLENIC S.A." in the amount of 911.200,000 euros. This will allow not only the start of the investment, but also the first cash in favour of the public interest. In this way, the buyer, i.e. the Hellenic Republic GLOBAL, or its guarantor before the transfer of the shares to acquire 100% of the company's share capital "ELLENIC S.A.", is allowed to carry out within the metropolitan pole at its own expense, on its own initiative and on its own responsibility the specified tasks, without the charge of the Greek State. It is also foreseen that an agreement between the buyer or guarantor and the circumstances of the territory, i.e. the State and the GOI, on the determination of both rights and obligations, will be preceded by a prior agreement on the implementation of this work. Finally, it works beneficially to speed up the project, to carry out constructions and facilities located outside the building blocks of the development areas and the metropolitan park of green and recreational areas, with the approval of a study and without the permit, as well as to carry out demolition operations by the buyer of the shares of "ELLINIKI SA" or its guarantor, before the transfer of the shares is completed. Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the amendment by the Ministry of Finance to strengthen the EMCDDA with ten ambulances, also saying a few words about the famous mandate of the two hundred six colleagues working abroad with the EEAS in Attica. First of all, the ambulances are useful for the EKAB, and that's an obvious measure. I would even hope that from the two ambulances intended for the 5th Health Region, at least one will finally be made available to Magnesia, where the needs are urgent and enormous. In relation to the urgent strengthening of the ESS with doctors of suitable qualifications, it is true that they are being retired in the battle of pandemic and I understand the motives and reasons of the colleagues who have chosen so far not to participate. That is why, in my statement, I called it a bad thing to do. But the truth is that words on this matter now have no particular meaning. Everyone's actions speak louder and I am sure that the involvement of Attica's colleagues in the ESS for a month will give the answer due to all those who rushed to applause them. I would also like to remind you that it is not a criticism that I make of it from a high point of view. I was among the volunteers who, together with other fellow doctors, decided to pay the HR for a month and, if necessary, we would be there for as long as it was required. At the same time, within a year of the pandemic, I also donated to personal donations of equipment and sanitary materials in the health units of Magnesia, and worked to get the Skopelos and Argalati health centers homes, to donate 40,000 euros for test reagents for the coronary at Volos Hospital, monitors and high-grade ventilation systems that saved many people the hospital in intensive treatment units. I will not continue with the list of actions that several of them are still under way and concern the purchase of new medical equipment for the “Achilopoulos” hospital. This is not the time for this to happen today. Today we have a battle, we have a real war. However, I can assure those who continue to oppose the New Democracy without a proposal and without an offer that the time of the report is approaching, and those who are shouting about the policies of the New Democracy against the Coronary will be very briefly asked to explain what they were saying and what they have done for a year, such as Mr Polakis, who, from this step, has been calling for answers for the monoclonal antibodies and is completely unreasonable because he does not know that they have already been ordered by means of a common European procurement and will be available in a few days for all the states of the European Union. However, this does not in any way deny that sanitary armour comes through vaccination and that is why such positions from the heavy Step by the National Representation unfortunately create further confusion among the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u360	Thank you. Before giving the floor to Mr. Chartomas, I would like to address the State Secretary, Mr. Vessiropoulos. Mr Besyropoulou, we in Arcadia had a universal lockdown and the employment of workers in business has been interrupted. The accountants were asked to submit the planned reports at the time, but there was a problem in the ERGAN system. I have tabled a relevant question. Today you have had a committee in the Ministry that would deal with this issue and I think you should help, because this is a purely bureaucratic failure. It's not another problem. I hope we solve it. Mr. Loading, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u361	Thank you very much, Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill of very important importance for the country, a station, an investment for the former Greek airport, which guarantees many benefits both at economic and social level. Before I begin my whole position, however, I would like to dwell on the Ministerial Amendment number 807/129. This regulation, with this amendment, concerns, in essence, the ready-to-eat abandoned buildings and their repair. So we are also coming in the case of the Cyclades Prefecture to heal the issue of the many dangerous, but also the preparedness of various buildings in Ermoupolis and Ano Syros. I would like to welcome the legislative improvement which has been tabled and gives the possibility of setting up committees beyond the seat of the decentralised administration on other islands, particularly in the various capital cities. So, on the occasion of this legislative improvement, I submit to Parliament the letter from the district director of southern Aegean, the letter from the Cyclades Chamber and, of course, the letter from the Association of Engineers of the Prefecture of Cyclades. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Philipbos Load, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All three have a request which I personally support. What's that? The setting-up of a committee and the Cyclades Prefecture based in Syros and Ermoupolis. However, in order to address the issue raised by the whole of these prepared buildings, we must also deal with the problem in depth, but above all effectively. It is therefore necessary, Mr Ministers, to set up an enlarged architecture council for the rapid service of citizens. After all, this was a request that was also announced by this Step in December 2020 by the then State Secretary for the Environment, Mr. Economou. This will remove serious problems in issuing both permits and building repairs, of course mainly in historic places as well as in Ermoupoli, as well as in Santorini. I make the Secretary of State's speech to the Minutes at that time. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Philip Load, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go to that bill now. Ladies and gentlemen, after eleven years of crisis, our country is the only one that has had difficulty in recovering from the rest of the countries. The main difference between our country and the other countries is that there is a system here which is conscious of and has been standing up to investment for too many years or which is mainly destroying industrial production. And, above all, this system is fuelled by you, ladies and gentlemen, by counter-population, of course, and by your attitude. You are pushing out various chapters on this economic crisis and you are doing two things: you are blocking investment, of course increasing production costs. Of course it would not be possible for this public anti-development rhetoric to lack the great investment for the Greek, which will completely change the form, but at the same time develop various valuable jobs for the country. In fact, the Greek has emerged in your great bet that today with relief we see that you lose and the country wins. The investment, therefore, of EUR 8 billion, will total some seventy-five thousand workers, and it will make a decisive contribution to the great struggle that we as a government are giving to reducing unemployment and increasing the GDP of the country. The House therefore passed the relevant Greek law in September 2016. During this meeting, the Minister of Culture, Mr Baltas, described the contract as the defeat of SYRIZA on the democratic path to socialism. I'm tabling this report in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Philip Load, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] While the then Minister of State and a little earlier speaker, Mr Flabouraris, presented the investment as a victory, listing its improvements, which we have heard and seen from the entire bilingualism and from the Chief of Officerial Opposition, but of course also from many of the anti-population speakers. The performance "SYRIZA friendly to investment" - something you want to show - is transformed into a theater of irrationality. This whole bilingualism aims at, on the one hand, to encourage the mechanism of blocking and sabotage - speaking in your own language - and, on the other hand, Mr Flamburaris or Mr Pitsirlas at the time to reassure the European Union - as also mentioned in the speech - which called for some of these major investments to be unblocked. Your entire bilingualism, however, then as a government, only offered to the country was uncertainty internally and unreliability externally. Then, of course, the then master of Piraeus - to remind of these things, because it is good to recall them in our memory - announced that there are thirty-seven acres of forest in the Greek area. Regardless of the laughter of the then claim since for years there the largest airport in the country was operating, the investment was delayed until after self-consciousness proved what the whole world knew, namely that there was no forest there for many years. This whole tactic with the nonexistent forests for us and exist for you, who only appeared in the imagination of some of your friends and which has always referred to in Article 24 of the Constitution, is a permanent argument of wars and growth but also investment. One such case was the investment of "PETROLA" in Elefsina, as well as the gold lining in the Skouries of Halkidiki. After the forest, therefore, the Greek series also had the archaeological service. After three meetings, therefore, the CCM decided to commit three hundred acres of land as an area of archaeological interest. So the decisions of your then Minister, Mr. Konordos, have affected and made the project difficult, as well as the investment as a whole. So you have constantly placed new obstacles that have stirred up the necessary climate of confidence of a state and an investor. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to the investments you systematically blocked and which were usually abundant in the end, the investments of your own interests and friends have probably made much faster in your own governance, such as investment in Elounda Crete. You have shown how selective and politically-guided your so-called economists are, while no national or foreign entrepreneur of other interests could easily invest in this country as they immediately created countless obstacles. Your friends could and could invest not only undisturbed, but quickly and on easier terms. The whole discrimination has therefore been developed, but has been cultivated for years against these investments from the largest spectrum of the Left and not just. Ladies and gentlemen, by ending, the harder a time is the greater demands it has. But nothing ends and nothing stops unless we abandon it. Today this work of the Greek is progressing and is the biggest urban regeneration of the country and of Europe. Because we as a government are taking advantage of and investing in all opportunities for the country to return to the place it deserves. Thank you very much, Mr President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u362	We continue with Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou from Mera25. Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u363	Thank you very much, Mr President. On Friday afternoon we heard Mr Scorcho asking Greek society for a new social agreement, a new agreement of confidence. There have not been two years of governance for the New Democracy, and in fact what it asks the Greek society is to give a "congratulation" and suddenly suffer amnesia. In fact, this is what the government is asking for in the most emphatic way. In particular, the Prime Minister asks for it through one of his best "participants" of Mr Scortsos, whose words certainly echo the Prime Minister's perceptions. And that is because the Prime Minister, when they rustle things, tends to be present not in person, but by a representative. So let's see what the government is telling us right now, what the government wants from Anti-Policy and from Greek society. He does not just ask to say "It's okay, brother, good heart, what happened, it's done", but he asks again credit, credit from our future, credit from our rights, credit from the whole of our lives. And what has the government promised to give as a 'competence'? Favourable, halved, vague evidence-disputes - I am referring to the health crisis - and of course recurring, which is also its classic policy. Let us see how the transition to this new agreement is now going to take place. Will it be with a bill or an amendment that will relieve, support the tested Greeks? Oh, no. Will it be with any amendment to correct the repressive disgrace we see? That's not it either. Will it be done with a bill that will provide a guarantee of pluralism or the rule of law? Not even that! The transition, the beginning will take place, as it has stopped, that is, with the cutting and the sharing of the pie to the "elect" co-formulants, with the heavy names and heavy wallets for both the rest and the crumbs for the sample. Specifically, what is envisaged by this - always in introductory - "investment" is that a huge private city will be created, a enclosed private city with a "elite" twenty-five thousand inhabitants, who will live in a parallel universe of blinding "armoured" wealth and the rest as "poor relatives" will look behind the huge fences that will certainly not even provide access to the sea. The distribution diagram has been leaked online, which the world has literally seen, and has literally freaked out, because what is predicted is that a huge area, that is, the area of the Greek, will be allocated for ninety or more years from the Greek public to private individuals and, at the end of the day, will end up being either shells of facilities or abandoned areas. As has been said quite rightly, this is a new version of a contribution which, as we know, has made the whole country unworkable. You, in other words, take your founder who has cemented Greece and not just walk in his footsteps, but you get over it. And you get over it, because according to the traditional contribution, at least the housekeeper maintained 40% -50% of the land. Now it will grant the whole extent to the "surfacer" who can literally do whatever he wants, it can even mortgage it without public approval. And this is not only about the commercial area, but also about the two thousand acres park. This is, of course, only the principle, because such an investment is also envisaged in Thessaloniki, in the "Arts". The distribution diagram has literally disappeared all the public spaces, the public areas of the cayalus, have disappeared the streams, the exit of the park to the sea has disappeared, there is not even the huge coastal pedestrian road of Agios Cosmas, even the free and unstructured swimming area that had about 1 kilometres, now decreased to 250 meters and, of course, the marina becomes a private marina - casino, without even providing a smooth connection through the public areas, without any arrangements for the management of the beach. The mayor of Greek - Argyroupolis, who has understood where the work is going, said to committee: "If they think we will pay a ticket to go to our beach, this will not happen. We do not want to exclude anyone, but we will not allow ourselves to be excluded.' And mayor Alimos said that access is becoming very difficult, since the outlets to the public spaces are too small. The great government's prestige to justify this work hurts her soul to strengthen the competitiveness of the Greek tourist product. In other words, the government wants to tell us that in Greece with the most and largest coastlines, in Greece with the blinding beauty, with the particular natural beauty, with the culture and monuments that surpass five thousand years, what our country needs to do to boost the competitive product is casinos and shopping centres. In other words, we need'seas' of consumption, gambling, addiction, that is to say,'seas' of exaggeration. Do you want to tell us, Minister, that Greece of culture - we know that there are some of your ministers who are, supposedly, antiquated - has anything to do with cloves and crupiers and that all of this reminds of Greece? You want to tell us that Greece is a Nevada on the American continent and that we now have to become a "Las Vegas" and that Greece must end up with ruined families, destroyed households and damaged businesses from gambling and the laundering of "black money"! Is this the front of the 21st century Greece? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A characteristic example is that such investments are the casinos created in the other very nice locations, such as in Porto Karras, Halkidiki, Syros, Alexandroupolis, Thessaloniki, Corfu, Rhodes. How did all these casinos contribute to strengthening the tourist product? Is there a study showing the cost and benefit? Obviously, as our Secretary-General, Mr Varoufakis, quite rightly said, what you are thinking of is: 'What should be a wardrobe in Europe, be a cruciferous one in Greece?' Unfortunately, this is the prospect that you have given, which your ideas have given for our young people and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr. Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u365	Mr President, I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u366	Here, Mrs. Perka, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u367	Mr President, I will be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u368	I wish, Mrs. Perka!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u369	Minister, I would like to answer you because I was really surprised by the following question: you have told the committees that some things are not just and that we will weigh many parameters. We have said from the outset that we are in favour of investment and we have done everything possible to move forward. The bill that comes is an abstract sect, which is very difficult not to vote for, because we have done the previous reversal heresy. However, we have said that we will speak clearly and that we will also highlight those problems. I too think we have had a good conversation, at least on one level. Nowadays, however, the conversation is gone somewhere. He was lost with Mr. Georgiadis' fake news, lost with the lies that he had become "flat" and that all the arbitrary ones were demolished. We know very well that this is not the case. However, the conversation was lost with all twenty-four actions, one of which was the launch of the Flevaris casino contest. Apparently, we did. Three perpetrators are the relocation of an entity. But we're not talking about actions like this. We're talking about eight glimpse heresy. It is infinite. What is being hung underneath in administrative acts is infinite. Talk, he says, in the plenary session of the Council of State. A relocation of an entity has three actions. Imagine them...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mrs. Perka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u371	No, Mr President, I would like to say another thing. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u372	Please, Mrs. Perka, but that's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u373	I shall conclude, Mr President. Excuse me, I got carried away. I'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u374	Please finish, Mrs. Perka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u375	I would like to say how I understand - and I say this personally - the parliamentary dialogue. So if we want the investment, so the abstract sects, we have to support it and you don't understand it. But on the other hand, we cannot hide the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u376	You've been talking about this, Mrs. Perka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u377	So I would expect you to tell us why we have taken a step so that we can reach agreement at least on what we disagree and what we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mrs. Perka. Mr. Spankis from New Democracy has the floor. Then we have Mrs. Christou from SYRIZA, Mrs. Apatzides from Mera25, and we finish with the Deputy Minister, Mr. Vesiropoulos. Come on, Mr. Spankee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u379	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to place myself in this very important bill, where the Greek Parliament is called upon to ratify - in the first article - the contract between the Greek State and the HIDED, two hundred and sixteen pages pertaining to the biggest and most difficult and demanding national investment in the last few years. Mr President, may I also speak as a resident in the southern suburbs of Attica and as a Member of Parliament elected by the people of the southern suburbs. I would like to make a request from the Stepma, not only to the SYRIZA colleagues, to stop jeopardising and creating a climate of insecurity for the neighbourhoods of the southern suburbs. Secondly, I understand very well why SYRIZA is in this great dead end. I have previously heard the Finance Minister, Christos Staikouras, that so many years of MP and Minister have never seen a opposition party vote 'yes' in principle, 'yes' in specific articles and against any other articles. And I answer, in order to be understandable and to those who are watching us, SYRIZA continues to be in a tragic deadlock due to the internal problems he has within his party. It's very simple and we knew it. That's why we had the disagreements about the law of 2016. Thirdly, there is a fundamental question that we must ask. In the midst of this danger, I also heard my colleague from Mera25 playing the game and the mayors, who are at the moment charming in the effort of the Mitsotakis Government, in the effort of the New Democracy Government to invest the Hellenic Republic, which is a national investment. And there is one basic question that we all have to answer, so that we are in charge of the Greek citizens who are watching us. Do you want to take a step forward, or do you want to go to reasonable anachronistic and rational of the past? Because today we are called upon to vote on a bill that ratifys a convention, which speaks of specific things and you know that this is a process which, in its practical form, began in the midst of a deep economic crisis and effectively unblocks, in the midst of a more difficult, unprecedented health crisis, with serious economic repercussions that the government is trying to face every day. In the southern suburbs of Lecano, in the south sector of Athens, which I have the honour and joy of being elected, there are many problems, as there are many problems throughout the country, throughout Europe, throughout the world. We cannot throw the level of political controversy when this investment will bring new jobs, when this investment will bring tax revenue, when this investment will bring about a different future for us and for our children. Twenty years ago the last flight from the airport of Greek took place and started the vision of its exploitation. A difficult and time-consuming route, which encountered many obstacles from many. Thirteen years after the definitive termination of the airport operation, in March 2014 the TIAD announced the preferred investor. And while the tender procedure had begun since 2011, at the end of the same year, in November, the contract for the transfer of shares was signed. A convention that the SYRIZA party - and then, like today, was in opposition today - called 'unlawful'. "The TIAD Convention with the "LAMDA DEVELOPMENT" is illegal and will soon collapse along with the government that supported it," said SYRIZA's chief executives. At the same time, they described the TIAD as a man of the opacity, irregularity and undermining of the public interest, and while the then regional authority - in order not to forget - appealed to the Court of Auditors in December 2014 and called for the annulment of its previous decision, by which the competition had been deemed lawful. All this just before the "first time left" takes over! But thankfully, "second time left" and then Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras changed his attitude, all of a sudden. And today, the Special Rapporteur of the Officer of the Hellenic Government, SYRIZA, reminds us that he was their government that proceeded with the 2016 process, with the ratification of the original and the amending contract. In any case, this change of attitude is a good thing, this policy of assimilation and we hope it will be reflected in the vote as well. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is the difference between our government and our party - there is something called political consistency. The New Democracy has no different attitude to the government and a different attitude to the opposition. The party president, our ministers and executives are not different when they have chairs and different when they don't have a chair. In New Democracy, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we have a specific agenda, goals and vision for the country. Even if we've been in very difficult conditions worldwide, we're not hiding. We are here to implement our election commitments to growth, reforms, stable socio-economic environment, work, innovation. This is what the Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis did and about the investment of the Greek who made an election commitment to unblock it. And today we are taking another substantial step. But I am talking to you today not only as a Member of the Greek Parliament, but also as a breeder of the southern suburbs. So you understand that I sincerely care about this project, which will change not only the southern suburbs, but the whole image of the Attica basin in Greece. Athens will re-enter the great destinations. The investment of Greek, will upgrade all the neighborhoods, bring growth of small and medium-sized enterprises, new jobs. The south will become a destination, a conscious selection of thousands of tourists will be made. And let me say, it's not the only investment. We have more works in the south, the beach of Moschato, my neighborhood. Local society has been deprived enough and we are still under way. Of course - and I am closing down here, Mr President - we must not forget local government. It is important and necessary to cooperate with the municipalities. I would therefore urge that we vote in favour of this draft law which ratifys an agreement, a contract. As well as the amendments which come, which concern the former workers of the Greek Vehicle Industry and the other provisions, tax, which the Minister brings and are important for dealing with everyday life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u380	Thank you. Ms. Rallia Christidou will now be speaking from SYRIZA, followed by Ms. Maria Apatzidis and the Deputy Minister will end. Make a little patience and we'll finish it. The Greek I don't know if it'll be over today, but we'll finish the process at least. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to begin by mentioning the two amendments we have tabled to the draft law as SYRIZA and an amendment by the Minister for Culture, which has also been tabled in this bill. I am starting with our own amendments. The first concerns the financial support for authors and artists through Collective Management Bodies. This is an absolutely necessary regulation, as the income of the intellectual and related rights beneficiaries has been severely affected by the pandemic and the situation in which it exists. The pandemic, as you know, has forced all artistic sites to be suspended by a government decision. In our amendment, therefore, we call on the Ministry to grant the Collective Management Organisations the financial support of the beneficiaries, with at least 50% of the distribution amount allocated to beneficiaries on the basis of rights revenues from 2019. It is a state's debt to the people of culture who are in a tragic situation. With the second amendment we ask that the minimum VAT rate be permanently introduced to 6%, the production stages of the book paper, digital, audio-visual, live performances and concerts via the Internet, cinema tickets and intellectual and related rights. After rejecting our own amendment, which we tabled in a previous bill, the Government issued circular 2052/2021 through the Public Income Authority, ranking only the live streaming to 6% and only for a period of time that the pandemic will keep. We, ladies and gentlemen, call for this to be a permanent measure for all the categories mentioned above. We therefore call on the Government to accept these two amendments which we are tabling for the second time. I shall now refer to the amendment by the Minister of Culture concerning the setting up of a special committee of dangerously prepared buildings. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of ensuring the protection of the cultural heritage by giving incentives and subsidies to their preservation, a fast track procedure is chosen which will result in historical buildings disappearing and altering the character of whole neighborhoods. We therefore call on the Minister to withdraw his amendment just on Friday and to give time for consultation on the matter. I now come to the bill we have been discussing this morning. In this law for the Greek agreement, we certainly do not have a success in the so-called privileged field of New Democracy, namely investment and - within many introductorys - "development". The Greek was a pre-election flag for the current government. Mr. Georgiadis claimed that bulldozers would start in seven days, that everything was ready, and that the anchor SYRIZA blocked the investment. Of course, when he took over, SYRIZA had not found any work, at a time extremely difficult for the country, with the memoranda, with the constant tough negotiations, with the lenders. The Greek was included in the prerequisites of a painful agreement. Despite the heterogeneous correlation of forces, an agreement was reached with a positive environmental balance in favour of green and free spaces. It was an agreement that ensured public character and green to half the land, provided for a large open park, allowed access to the coast for all the inhabitants of Lecanopdi, linked the area to a fixed track, to cycling roads, to pave the way, with a reduction in the percentage of construction, with EUR one and a half billion in infrastructure, undertaken by the investor. Even financial liabilities of the investor had been further ahead - they had increased - while the management body was established as a legal entity under private law and not as a public limited company. In short, in these very unfavourable circumstances, it had been done to prepare for a project not under the conditions that we would ideally like, but with a grid of protection for the public interest. And so the New Democracy comes to the government. The start of the works took so many postponements, it ended up a joke. But the funny thing is stopping there, because even after twenty amendments, the government is still changing significant parts of the agreement, as it had been launched by SYRIZA. And every change takes place at the expense of the Greek people. So we have Articles 1 and 5. In the first article, as calculated by the percentage of ownership over the entire property, the result is clearly in favour of the investor and at the expense of the State. Furthermore, the fragmentation and resale of the land is allowed again and again, without ensuring that this land returns free of charge, free of charge or other claims to the Greek State after ninety years. In other words, the government seems to be losing it forever, forever. The right to surface finally becomes another name for ownership, which means that they have substantially changed retrospectively the main parameters of the competition to the detriment of the public interest. This is essentially an ex post gift to the investor you like, you don't like, we have this interpretation. We can't agree at all. In Article 5, the hotel's construction to get together and build the co-ownership hotels was introduced with an amendment on 3-12-2020 in the Greek, with a minimal use of 30% and without a strategic environmental impact study. The New Democracy colleague spoke earlier. What exactly will you leave the citizens of the Greek, Glyfada, Alimos, but also the citizens of the whole of Athens? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that with the agreement that has been voted on, you are making a clear turn from the choices of the SYRIZA by legislating for the investor in particular in Articles 1 and 5, which we are clearly voting against. It is no coincidence that local societies, too, express precisely this anxiety and concern. They realize that the jobs you promised will not be available. On the other hand, malls will disappear any local commercial entrepreneurship. They realize that the area of the park is constantly frustrating. They note that the investor has received no surface, but ownership, without even committing when he will build as required and in what order. In what order is all this going to happen? We are delighted, indeed, that you have agreed to make a legislative improvement, clarifying that the fence will be temporary, but even today, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we cannot understand why you should include it in a bill. Take her out completely. I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: once again, the government of the so-called 'green' Prime Minister, the so-called pro-investing government, the so-called liberal, inseparable, flexible and small state, has proved to be extremely toxic to the environment, extremely toxic and toxic in favour of those who, at the expense of many, are at the expense of the Greek people. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u382	Thank you. We are now completing the list of Members with Ms Maria Apatzides from Mera25. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr President. In the bill that we are debating and voting on tomorrow in plenary, the government is outlawing the creation of a private city in the capital. The sale of the country has some limits and I shall refer to some of them. For the delimitation of the metropolitan pole of the Greek – Agios Kosmas, it is permitted to build fences perimeter of the total area. In addition, the construction of fences and separation of activities and functions is permitted even within the same field. In addition, the area may be excluded for operational purposes as a whole or in part, by way of derogation from the building regulations and the law on public spaces and public land. It is planned to create luxurious houses, hotels, shopping centers, restaurants, bars, conference centers, offices, casinos. See, Dubai! They promise that access to the beach will be unavoidable. However, for projects of such size and duration, we cannot rely on promises or good intentions. Projects have the goal of completing the 20 to twenty-five years. Hundreds of acres of common jaw have disappeared along with all the public provision that has to accompany the streams. Of the total of about three kilometers of Greek coastline in public use, only about 10% is attributed, while the rest disappears behind the fences. Finally, specific central entrances and transit routes are provided which can function as control and free and unobstructed access gates. Previous points lead us to conclude that at least potentially we are talking about an almost enclosed private city in the city. But what's a private town? It's a kind of giant outdoor shopping mall. It can be seen as the urban equivalent of a special economic zone, but not in some part of the territory of a country, but within the urban fabric of a city. Private cities, such as special economic zones, often have their own rules and especially legal regimes that differ from the laws of the territory of the city where they are geographically. In these cities, new labour laws, special tax codes, different economic and educational models, which have nothing to do with what exists in neighbouring municipalities and in the rest of the state, can be applied and tested. They usually address governments such as the New Democracy, who believe that outsourcing the private sector of vast areas of public space and large parts of the housing fabric is effective and profitable. Ladies and gentlemen, those of you who have stayed in the Chamber, with the data we have so far, what we are sure to know is that people will enter a fenced and controlled area through specific inputs. They will then be able to go to luxury offices, conference centres, which will be private, to go to a hotel or to a restaurant, which will also be private, to end up in shopping centers and casinos, which are understood to be private and which do not need to enter public space but sporadicly. In the long term such a treaty which has features of a private city can evolve into a sovereign or less autonomous local authority with its own legal and regulatory framework, its own tax, customs and social status, its own administration, and even its own security services. Gentlemen of the Government, a few days ago you voted for the colonial contract with "ELDORADO" in Halkidiki, while today you are bringing the draft law on Greek. Convert the country to a post-mortem mortar full of patches. Is that the development model of Mr. Latsi's parasitic oligarchy? Some kind of neo-engineering that turns us back to the middle ages in 2021? The political and legal requirements of a new regime have been established through the memoranda and the troika internal and external. Through the fragmentation of the territory and privatization of the public space, the territorial base and the spatial conditions on which the new capitalist feudalism is being built are shaped. We also see the formation of a digital paratrooper with examples of 'PALANTIR' and 'CISCO'. Listen, listen! The cost of 2 million and the personal data of one and a half million citizens with the right to resale to third parties, granted by Mrs. Kerameos, are another scandal of your government's megatons, which was reasonably deceived by the deep hypocritical ability of the company 'CISCO'! Is it possible for tax software, Minister, to control it, a so-called independent tax authority, but fully dependent on the troika? This is the Greece of the New Democracy and Mr. Mitsotakis. A country of cramped opacity and divestment, with a state deficit that will reach 15% of national income in the future, which will be around EUR 150 billion per annum, while debt exceeds 360 billion. There is no doubt at all that the few now serve their interests, despising the many to whom they owe the power to be devastated. How much longer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u384	Thank you. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor. I believe that tomorrow we will also resolve the issue of Arcadia. People have been afflicted for too long. Thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has engaged in a continuous and targeted effort to support the real economy in order to enter the best possible conditions in the process of relaunching. This has been our priority for about a year since the design and implementation of measures to support enterprises, workers and those affected by the pandemic began. The bill we are debating today contains arrangements that resolve procedural issues regarding the licensing of projects linked to the great investment of the Greek. It is a prerequisite to begin the regeneration of the first 85 acres, but also to sign the final acquisition agreement for the shares of "ELLENIC S.A." by the public and the investor. This will be done by the company and the advance payment of EUR 300 million included in the final price. The next day we need large-scale investments that create goodwill but, above all, new jobs. This draft was also included in the amendment by the Ministry of Finance under a general number of 805 and a special number 127, to which I should like to refer. It is another legislative intervention aimed at supporting the real economy, in particular sectors which have suffered the negative consequences of the pandemic. At the same time, a solution is given to problems that come from the past, such as the compensation of former workers in the Greek Vehicle Industry, who left due to retirement. The payment will be made by the Ministry of Finance and the necessary supporting documents are required at the Department of Supervisory Bodies of the Ministry of Finance. The sums to be paid shall be unaccountable and inconsistent in the hands of the public or third parties. They will not be bound and will not be netted out with accredited debts to the State, the legal persons governed by public law, the local authorities and their legal persons, the insurance funds and the banks. Article 3 of the amendment strengthens the liquidity of enterprises that have remained closed during the Christmas season because of restrictive measures. As you know, the financial support for these enterprises has been provided for by a decision of the Secretary of State for Development and Investment through the public investment programme. We come today and clearly define with the content of this amendment that this aid will be duty-free, unrestricted and irreversible. It is also foreseen that the amounts received by undertakings that have remained closed as a result of restrictive measures on Christmas 2020 will not be calculated in the income limits for the payment of other social benefits and will be collected without requiring the presentation of tax and insurance information. Article 5 of the amendment extends the scope of the over-reduced VAT rate to 6% for the local protection and hygiene instruments used to limit the spread of the coronary. This provision has been established by an act of legislative content on 20 March 2020 and is now renewed until 31 December 2021, i.e. until the end of the year. In the same direction Article 6, which extends until 30 September 2021 the scope of the reduced VAT rate of 13% on the transport of persons and luggage, the sale of non-alcoholic beverages, and the catering services, with the exception of the disposal of alcoholic beverages by entertainment centres. At the same time, the scope of the excess VAT rate is extended until 30 September 2021 by 6% on the tickets to cinemas, theatres and concerts. With Article 7, at the request of the Ministry of Health, the purchase of ten ambulances from the Ministry of Finance is now under way in order to meet the needs of the EAW. This is money that was collected in the special account called ‘CCOVID -19. The supply of the ten ambulances will be made by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the technical specifications to be developed by the EAW. With Article 8, we are renewing the exceptionally beneficial arrangements for the granting of a simple use of ayalou and beaches for 2021. This means that the mere use of the sea and the beach will apply for this year's year and until 31-10-2021. This regulation has so far substantially helped businesses active in the tourism sector. The concession relates to main hotel accommodations and sanitary shops, as well as to rent furnished rooms. Especially for this year, a 40% discount is foreseen as a support measure for these enterprises and the compensation paid is set at 60% of the agreed rent. Article 9 also regulates issues relating to the concession, in exchange for up to three years and without auction for the initial use of a hayaloo, beach, bank or coastal zone for adjacent to the Aegean beach, lagoon, lake or river business. These are hotel accommodations, organised tourist camps, recreational centers, maritime clubs recognised by the General Secretariat of Sports, as well as business of maritime recreation that operate across borders to the public exhibition. The designation ‘horse’ is guaranteed by the existence of any form of road between shared areas and areas where enterprises operate. Finally, Article 10 extends for another year the deadline for the submission of an application by bodies and undertakings for existing projects in the Aegean area which can be legalised for public benefit and development purposes, so that the application may be granted to them. I shall also refer to the amendment under the general number 818 and specific number 140, tabled by the Ministry of Finance. According to Article 79 of Law 4764/2020, there has been a change in the way the profits of gaming games are taxed on columns. Therefore, in accordance with Article 79, these profits are now subject to tax per toy note instead of per toy column, as foreseen. The amendment refers to one or more bets submitted by the player at the same point in time. The same amendment also provides that, for this year in particular, the money that sports clubs receive from tax revenues on gambling profits will be unaccountable and irresponsible in the hands of the public or third parties. They are not subject to any reservation, fee or levy, they are not bound and are not offset by certain debts to the tax administration and to the State in general, municipalities, regions, insurance funds or credit institutions. I believe that this amendment rationalises the framework, sets out the precise scope for taxing profits on gambling cards and ensures that the amounts received by sports teams will be irresponsible and unreserved, which will help to fulfil their purpose of developing the sporting ideal. You will allow me a small reference to the amendment with a general number of 806 and a special number of 128, concerning the operating problem faced by the IMPs, since there could be no general meetings due to restrictive measures. This means that the budget for these agencies, which is a key issue for their operation, could not be adopted. On this issue, detailed discussions were held, which presented proposals to the Minister for Rural Development and Food. These proposals I am pleased to see that they take the form of legislation which gives a realistic solution to the problem, since it enables local regional authorities to extend the mandate of existing administrative councils until new ones are elected. The most important thing, however, is that there can now be a decision to approve the budget of these agencies by means of a teleconferencing or rotation, which also enables the Local Improvement Agency to go ahead with the necessary staff ahead of the new irrigation period. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already pointed out many times, the management of the pandemic, the response to the consequences of economic and social activity, and the planning of the next day also require planning and responsibility. The two figures are made available by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. There are two elements that are recognised and valued positively by the large majority of citizens, however unpleasant this is to some people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-23-S1-commons.u387	With the consent of the House at 22.27; the sitting for Wednesday 24 March 2021 is closed at 9.00 p.m. on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate; b) legislative work: a) continuation of the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Preparation of a Property Distribution Convention - Recommendation of a Property Law of the Hellenic Republic - St. Kosmas and regulation of relevant issues". (j) only debate and vote on the principle of principle, Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: ‘Conclusion of the Convention establishing the European Communications Office (ECO) [Hamburg, 23 June 1993], as amended in Copenhagen on 9 April 2002 and Copenhagen on 23 November 2011’;
