ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to this House the following: The Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Environment and Energy, Justice, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime, State and Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, submitted a draft law on 5-32021: ‘Definition of Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 on the system of the European Union’s own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom and other provisions’. The Ministers for the Environment and Energy, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, State, Deputy Ministers of Finance and Development, Foreign Affairs, Health, Home Affairs and State Secretary of the Civil Protection have tabled a draft law on 5-3-2021: ‘State an Investment Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Unified Anonymity’ under the name ‘GREEK CURRENCY MONEY ANONOMIC CONTRIBUTION AND INDUSTRY’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin with the topical questions that will be discussed today, I would like to inform you that the following two topical questions will not be discussed, after consultation: The first one under number 511/1-32021 is the second question of the Member of the Messinia Parliament, Mr.Ioannis Lambropoulos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Forest maps" and the eighth under number 503/1-32021. In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Koutnatzis, informs the House that the topical questions to be discussed today are as follows: Questions Nos 486/28-2-2021, 490/1-3-2021, 491/1-32021, 492/1-32021 and 494/1-32021 topical questions and the number 1658/11-11-2020 and 3663/462/28-1-2021 questions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr Konstantinos Skreka. Questions Nos 489/1-3-2021, 502/1-3-2021 and 506/1-32021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr.Koskosamanis. Questions Nos 481/25-2-2021, 484/26-2-2021 and 510/1-3-2021 topical questions and Question No 3493/22-1-2021 (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs Mr Zoe Macreys. Questions Nos 487/1-32021, 499/1-32021 and 3650/461/28-1-2021 and 368529-1-2021 (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Secretary of State for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Question No 500/1-32021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Eleftherios Augiakis. We enter the debate of the seventh under number 489/1-32021 of the second-round question of the MP Argolida of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on "Actual availability in intensive care beds (IMP)". Mr Poula's timely question - as well as the first questions for today - will be answered by the present - as always - by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis. Here, Mr. Poula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, before I begin my position on the current question, I would like to condemn yesterday's police violence in New Smyrna from the Stephen of the House. Such behaviours are embarrassing for the government and for the country, regardless of the conditions we are experiencing. Don't hide behind the SAD. Citizens have understood the practices of your Government, which, with mathematical accuracy, lead us to a vicious cycle of violence and to divisive phenomena of Greek society. I now come to the topical and urgent question. In the last few years, the pressure of the IF beds in Attica has reached the unprecedented, due to the maintenance of coronary cases at extremely high levels and the daily increase in invasions into diseases. In the face of this critical situation, the government chooses, once again, the solution to convert ICU beds for other illnesses in CIVID -19 beds, thus weakening clinically and parts of public hospitals for the third time within a year. It thus converts the ESS into a care system at a time when, according to reports, imports of patients into hospitals and other non-coronian diseases have greatly increased. In practice, this disproves the government's celebrations of allegedly doubling the MSFs and demonstrates the sluggishness with which the government has faced the problem of subsistence and the lack of IF beds in the hospitals of the country. At the same time, the recruitment of doctors to ICUs is delayed, so the beds to be operated remain inactive due to a lack of staff. At the same time, the private sector remains unsuccessful in the fight against pandemic. The Secretary-General of Health Services just on Friday sent an urgent document to the country's private clinics, asking them to send the exact number of empty IF beds they have by the night of the same day. That's the ultimate cuff! In November 2019, the WTO provided various data on the huge shortages of ICUs in our country. Specifically, he spoke of three thousand six hundred beds, when five hundred fifty - seven operated. And Attica alone, along with the surrounding prefectures, has six million people. And then there were only two hundred and twenty-four. So the time that has elapsed since November 2019, so far, how many IF beds have we finally got? Because here we too have been confused with the number of beds, as well as with the opposition. But you say numbers one day, but numbers the other day.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u3	The question to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u4	We therefore want to hear a clear number, so that we know what we have and how this situation is dealt with. We also want to ask whether the private sector will finally be involved in dealing with the coronary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u5	Good. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, with your timely question, we are given a first-class opportunity to refer to the question of IF beds once again. It is a matter that, in general terms, has suffered the burden of misinformation, particularly from the point of view of the Officerial Representation, which, in its efforts to cover its inadequacy and the nakedness to which the National Health System gave us, resorts to the practice of lies. Let me take you twenty months back in time. It is July 2019, when this Government takes a clear mandate for the governance of the country and the leadership of the Ministry of Health assumes the National Health System. At the time, there were five hundred and seventy beds operating and available for hospitals for patients in public hospitals in intensive treatment units for a total of seven hundred organics, that is, we received a hundred and fifty organic intensified beds, inactive, staffless, without equipment and without the possibility of hospitalization. Also, no prediction, no plan and no action in progress existed to create new IF beds. Obviously the previous government considered that the five hundred and seventy beds were enough. The previous government had developed some beds, but it had stopped there, even though the patient's waiting for intensive beds was stable two-digit. The horn pandemic is the fact that it was a critical catalyst in implementing our election commitment to upgrade and increase beds in intensive care units so that we can approach the European average. Among other things, they came and contributed to this great, the emblematic, donation of the Greek Parliament, the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and other individuals and businesses, the private and public sector bodies, who contributed to increasing the beds in intensive care units, which already operate and are staffed. The results are now visible and measurable. We have developed and operating a thousand and twenty - three intensive beds in public hospitals. Moreover, there are two hundred seventeen in private hospitals and fifty-one in the military. For the treatment and hospitalisation of coronary patients there are particular requirements, the implementation of which ensures the good and safe functioning of non-COVID patients, the non-spreading of the virus in uninfected patients, and finally the specific treatment of coronary patients. So what did we do for that purpose? We did the self-evident thing. We have made a significant number of beds available to hospital patients with a coronary, seven hundred thirty-eight total, twenty-four in military hospitals, a total of seven hundred sixty-two, i.e. 55%. The remaining beds cover all non COVID cases of patients requiring hospitalisation in intensive care units. In short, today, in the midst of a pandemic, we have forty-five beds more than the five hundred fifty-seven that we received in July 2019 for non COVID cases. I would like to clarify here that the above figures do not include beds of special public hospitals, such as implants, recovery and post-consumer care. Mr Poula, you know - you are also a doctor - that the National Health System has been pressed, pressed, but it responds and is being put up with every effort that can be made. This resistance has two main causes: the human potential currently serving in the health system - we have strengthened the National Health System - and of course the good preparation that has been made. All the staff found on the front line for dealing with the pandemic were strengthened by increasing our powers with additional staff, both permanent and subsidiary. The system was shielded with the necessary personal protective equipment and equipped with the necessary equipment and sanitary and pharmaceutical materials all the health structures in order to ensure patient hospitalisation. And of course we have adopted strict coronary management protocols. As far as the private sector you are concerned, as you are well aware, at the very first time of the pandemic, we have taken all the necessary legislative initiatives and legislative acts, all the measures we can take to ensure that all cases of the coronary are adequately and safely managed. These include both the provision of beds, hospitals, staff, the requisition of personnel, clinics, equipment and personnel, personal protective equipment and also voluntary provision of private individuals and legal persons. We applied when we needed - and I am referring to Thessaloniki and the rest of Northern Greece - the order of two clinics to deal with the situation and the availability of a rehabilitation centre for two hundred beds. The private sector in Thessaloniki covered the non-COVID incidents. You remember that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u7	Minister, I've left you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u8	I shall conclude, Mr President. In Athens, there is planning in cooperation with the private sector to provide private structures so that we can use these infrastructures to manage the increased pressure that Attica is currently undergoing because of koruna. Of course we are talking about cooperation with the private sector. There is consensus and they are all aware that in this battle we are fighting in order to get winners out of the pandemic, there is no excess and that the National System is one. In this context, of course, there is also the design and prospects of private sector involvement in the cases of coronary diseases.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u9	Good. The rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Poula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, after a year of pandemic in our country, after the tragic repercussions that we lived in Thessaloniki in November, according to what you said to me, it appears that your Government continues to be in nitrovana. One year after the first case and the hospitals in our country are in worse shape than the one they were in November. You have done absolutely nothing, despite your efforts to convince the citizens to the contrary. And don't tell us that what is happening now in Athens didn't expect it. So long the scientists have warned you about the possible new outbreak of the pandemic. Did you think Attica would be unaffected? A city in which half the Greek population resides, did you believe that it should not be shielded sanitaryly and do you consider adequate sanitary shielding for the conversion of existing ICU beds for other diseases in ICU beds for COVID, with the well-known practice of "seeing and doing"? I'm sorry, but we can't agree. We do not agree to the conversion of the ERC into a health system of a disease. With the measures announced by the Minister on Wednesday, that is exactly what we see happening. We fully understand that moments are crucial. The pandemic in our country is at a difficult turning point. Still, the virus didn't show up today. There is no excuse to leave patients with illnesses other than COVID -19 at their fate, reducing surgery by 80%. And where do these people have to go? In the private sector. What are they gonna do? They'll put their hand in their pocket. A private sector that you consciously choose to remain COVID free. And don't tell us that he doesn't have the proper expertise and the appropriate trained staff. In the private sector at the moment, there are the leading infectiousists, who are even assisting the work of the Ministry of Health through the Committee of Experts, giving their views and ideas to deal with COVID. Isn't that right, Minister? Isn't that what we're doing right now? In this very difficult battle, the private and public sectors should also be involved. Should we have even more victims to appreciate taking their responsibilities? Is it possible to enter a reasonable order or not? Is it possible for the Minister of State, Mr. Gerapetritis, to come out and say that if we order it will cost us more resources? Is that the point? In the face of human life, does it matter whether resources will be wasted? Is it possible to calculate the money for the health of Greek citizens? And beyond that, you claim this pandemic outbreak is the last. Are you sure about this or will we have a new, new outburst again after some time? These are things that we will have to deal with seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u13	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Poula, I said at the end of my prototype that there is cooperation with the private sector. It has given enough to date to manage the pandemic, and there is cooperation and understanding, so that, if necessary, there will also be structures available to manage the private COVID sector. I said - and I say it again and stress - that in this battle no one is left over, the National System is one and we will all fight together in order to get the winners out of this third wave. You tell us that we were not prepared for the management of this third wave. You're wrong. Since the first day of the pandemic, in fact, we have designed the most extreme phenomena and are prepared, and at the moment we are successfully responding to the increased needs of this period. The National Health System must cover - and it covers - the needs of all patients and not just coronary patients. You're telling us that the system has become unique. You're wrong. You're telling us about lowering surgery. First of all, not only in Greece, there is a reduction in regular surgery and interventions that can be postponed, without a risk to the lives of our fellow citizens. All emergency, emergency, special circumstances, such as oncology, are normally carried out. Features to tell you that yesterday, March 6, there were three hundred forty-four crossings in Athens by EKAV for non COVID incidents. So the system continues and serves all our fellow citizens who need health services. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u15	The eleventh question under number 502/1-32021 of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health will now be discussed, on the subject: "To withdraw the decision on the abolition of beds for the ITH of non COVID Hospital and the development of METH COVID beds without the necessary personnel and equipment". Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Following decisions by the management of the CSD Hospital, respectively the 1st Health Region and the Ministry of Health, seven beds of general ICM are removed and converted into ICM beds for COVID incidents, while at the same time the administration's intention of abolishing further fourteen beds of equal general ICM and converting them into ICM beds for COVID incidents was announced. Result? The CSD, a universal reference hospital with daily inspection, has fourteen master-stage beds. At the same time, the new MDB created by donation is not adequately staffed, rather than moving 12 nurses from other health establishments, so that the new MDB can operate half. In particular, it reduces staff in different IC departments at the CSD Hospital from twenty-four to twenty-four, from 16 to 14. And all of this, to work on the COVID, which will be equally subordinated, i.e. with nineteen nurses for seven beds. At the same time there are huge shortages in the hospital in traumatists, technicians - radiologists, physiotherapists. And we're talking about a hospital with speciality, trauma specialization, and here, for example, the operation of the COVID beds, in this case, for the additional seven METH COVID beds, at least twenty-eight nurses are required. The specifications are minimal, taking into account that the needs of nurses at the COVID beds should be increased at least 50%. The above proves that the government's account and propaganda on the armouring of the public health system and the realisation of the necessary recruitments are frustrated by reality itself, while gradually transforming the CSD into a hospital of a disease. This is also demonstrated by the conversion of the increased care unit to ITH COVID, as well as the conversion of the fifteen beds of the Clinical Plastic Surgery into COVID beds, which are beds related to the treatment of burns, remedial trauma, etc. Is the Minister therefore asking, Mr President? First, will the decision to repeal the general MDG and to convert it into COVID beds be withdrawn? And if, despite this, it continues to strengthen directly with the necessary staff and equipment. And, secondly, what steps will be taken to speed up the process of appointing the attendants of 2K - 50 nurses - to simulate contract workers and qualified nurses, to cover directly at least twenty new organic posts of specialist doctors and fifty nursing posts for ICUs, twelve technicians - radiologists or operators, ten medical laboratories or manufacturers, twelve physical therapists and twenty nurses - traumats for the overall needs of the hospital?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u17	Well, all this, Mr. Lambroulis, will not answer it right now, in three minutes. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Lambroulis, no deletion of beds has taken place in either the CSD or any other hospital of the National Health System. We all know that a battle has been taking place for a year, in order to deal with the pandemic and in exceptional circumstances, you are taking emergency measures. Patients with CIVID should be treated and, as a matter of priority and under special care conditions. And that is why we move to necessary modifications in the use of single-medical beds and intensive beds, which you characterize as abolitions. These conversions are needed to ensure that the virus is not transmitted to other patients - you know that well, and you are a doctor - and our plan has been a complete success so far since we have not seen the virus spread within our hospitals. The CSD Hospital was one of those in which a new intensive treatment facility was built in the context of the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. At the beginning of this year, a new state-of-the-art unit, with a capacity of thirty beds, the second largest together with the "Evangelism" and after that of the "Salvation" Hospital in Attica, was completed. The addition of these thirty beds makes the forces of the CSD decisively increasing, because it is indeed a specialised hospital and after the pandemic it will be able to deal with the serious incidents it receives, the increased and specialized ones. At the same time, this unit of beds comes to be added to the beds which have been available and have been added to the hospitals of Attica and to the other hospitals of the territory. So what is the situation in the CSD today? Eight beds in the ICU, where six doctors serve, twenty beds in the 2nd IC, where they serve fourteen doctors, thirty beds in the new ICU, where they serve seventeen doctors. All in all, that is, we have fifty eight intensive treatment beds and thirty-seven doctors who serve covering their operation, while according to the Central Health Council's instructions, the proportion of ICU beds and doctors should be as follows: six doctors for the first eight beds and a higher ICU force for a doctor per three beds. This means that the doctors required for the safe functioning of all three CSDP IDs exist, serve and are within the specifications defined by the Central Health Council. I would also like to stress that specifically for the staffing of the thirty beds of the new intensive unit, we completed before the delivery of new recruitments of seventeen doctors of the ESS sector, by a notice published in September 2020 and by the permanent staff serving were added to it, to strengthen it, and assistant doctors and other staff, forty-eight people of nursing specialists and forty-two persons of other staff, paramedics and other auxiliary specialities. At the same time, we await the appointment of fifty more permanent TE category nurses from the 2K, as you said, who are on the initiative we have taken and in consultation with the ADP. These fifty, in addition, are one of 2K's perpetrators, that is to say, we go further to the 2K notice and draw more staff. It is obvious that we are doing everything we can to strengthen the ESS with staff, medical, nursing and other, permanent and subsidiary. And it is not possible in one day to fill all the gaps and shortcomings of years, which have increased over the past few years. However, in very short time we have covered huge gaps in the National Health System. Over the last eighteen months of our administration they have been published to cover through four successive invitations to permanent medical staff two thousand three hundred sixty two permanent doctor posts of various specialties. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u19	And we're closing questions to Mr. Contozamanis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u20	It is a secondary one, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u21	I'm sorry, you're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u22	You're hasty, Mr. President. It's okay, it's happening to all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u24	I'm not going to stand by whether it's abolition or conversion. Remove ICU beds and convert them into a ICU beds. However, the same bed that was before - in this case - of the CSD is converted into a COVID bed. As far as the new unit and the existing units are concerned, we didn't even report about doctors. You did well to report the lead. We put the issue of nurses and the adequacy of the needs and international standards - to say this - standards that intensive care units should be responsible for with nursing staff. For example, the thirty beds of the new ICU need at least a hundred, a hundred twenty nurses, with a clipboard calculation. Are there? Is it? They're assigned? Now, on the occasion of the CSD, Mr President, it is of course not an exception to what is happening in all hospitals in the country on the occasion of the pandemic. What we see for the third time within a year of the beginning of the pandemic is that the government, the Ministry of Health, abolishes clinics and doctors in public hospitals, shrinks surgery, baptizes beds necessary for surgery and other diseases, recycles the timeless shortcomings in the public health system to manage the exacerbation of pandemic, i.e. by using the same means, the same materials. This results, in addition to 100% for patients with COVID in hospitals and ICUs, in years of age - and here the issue comes to the CSD for the years and in exceptional cases, as we say in the topical question, or in various emergency cases - to be treated poorly or not by the public health system, even leading to deaths not caused by the pandemic. Indicatively, according to the data that the Ministry itself has given, in the period of January - October 2020, we have a 30% reduction in visits to the emergency and 31% to the regular external hospitals, more than three and a half million visits have been lost, not more than ninety thousand interventions in the public health system, respectively, in health centres, and in two and a half million visits, in the oncological hospitals we have a reduction of 35% of visits, that is, a hundred thousand fewer visits of oncological patients. These are the elements as the Ministry has given them, comparing them for the period 2017-2019. This situation is reflected in the overall deterioration of health indicators, but is also recorded in the 'excessive' mortality in deaths within the pandemic, which exceed the average of previous months. One part of the excess deaths is due on one side to the coronary, according to also to the official statements of the EGE, but the cause for almost half is indiscriminate. The scientists are attributed to the exclusion of thousands of non-COVID patients from the public health system, which operates as a disease. In other words, the inability of patients to have the necessary diagnosis and treatment leads many of them to a fatal outcome. They are therefore a challenge to the government's claims that it manages the pandemic satisfactorily and gives priority to human life, when you apply an accordion system to ICUs, move healthcare, hire personnel with an end date very behind the needs of the health system. What is revealed is the deadlock of a health system that operates in the logic of recompense and cost-benefit with private economic criteria and in partnership with the private sector, on the basis of the policies over time of all governments, as well as the current, respectively, of the minimum free provision, of health trade. That is why the system is unable to stand up to both the exceptional conditions of the pandemic, but it is incapable of meeting the needs of the people under normal conditions. Why shortages in staff and infrastructure, sub-financing, bad payments by the people, the glaring of the private sector, the almost absence of primary health care, with emphasis on prevention, all of this has one single cause: the orientation of a health system in the context of the capitalist economy, where the interests of capital are the criterion and not the needs of the people in health.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u25	Come on, Mr. Lambroulis, you're not going to say the JRC program now. You're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u26	I shall close, Mr President, in ten seconds. Therefore, together with the claims for measures to substantially support the public health system with permanent recruitment, modern infrastructure, with the order of the private sector without compensation, increased state funding, what is projecting from the developments themselves is the need to fight for a universal, public and free health system in the service of our people's needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Lambroulis, don't embarrass me. You're presided over too. The questions are to ask the Member and to answer the Minister, not to present his party's programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, you wanted to deprive me of my denial.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u29	Okay, that's why I let you talk five and a half minutes. It must have made you think I did it like this. Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lambroulis, I'm afraid you're going to create impressions because you mentioned in your denture that we have rejected health services to citizens. I want to be clear and repeat it once again: the health system works for all our fellow citizens. It provides services for twenty-four hours a day to those in need and has stood up, despite the great pressure it has taken over the past year. And recruitment has been made - as you say - to permanent and subsidiary staff and we have strengthened the National Health System in Infrastructure and continue to modernise it, and we have had the opportunity of the pandemic period to be able in a short time to implement new things in the National Health System and to have created this reserve, which enables us - when we overcome the pandemic - to be more effective and more efficient and to meet the needs of all of our fellow citizens. Of course, the provision of services to all our fellow citizens remains free. None of our fellow citizens who have been hospitalized for a coronary have any financial burden. I would like to repeat once again - because you stress it - that the health system is not unique. It serves all our fellow citizens, and I told you numbers in particular. You're talking about reduced recruitment to emergency departments. We know, however, that the real urgency has to go to hospital emergency departments and these are coming...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u31	But the evidence is yours. They're not ours. You gave it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u32	Yeah, if there's a reduction, it doesn't mean the emergency or emergency didn't come. And they came and dealt with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u33	Regular, surgery, oncology patients...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u34	Urgent and emergency surgery is done normally. All over the world, Mr Lambroulis, regular surgery has been reduced for interventions which could be carried out later - I said it - without a risk to the lives of patients, in order, first, to protect our health personnel and fellow citizens who come to these structures, but also to have the necessary staff at our disposal to deal with this exceptional situation. We haven't found the wheel. We do what is happening throughout the modern world, and that's why we've done it, and we'll make it this time. And you've seen, we've all seen pictures from the other countries - it's worth seeing these images - that patients are transited from one country to another, because the health system can't. We have endured and we will endure and we will not leave any of our fellow citizens without the necessary health care. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u35	We continue with the tenth under No 506/1-32021 topical question of the second question of the Hercules MP of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Transparency and respect of legality - To stop the vaccination of 'days'. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the government every day ensures that our experience is enriched by the ultimate state, and of course by yesterday's and its perception of the security of citizens. I would remind you, Mr President, that we have called on Mr Chrysochide since 11 November to come to Parliament, to the committee responsible, to discuss the report on the use of force on the part of the police and to postpone it. I understand, after yesterday's night, he's waiting to gather a lot to talk to us about everything. I would, however, like to return to the issues relating to inadequate policies, the contradictions and inefficiency of government measures. The Government has chosen the exceptional procedure for all: the award of works, supplies, recruitment. Transparency and customer characteristics are now dominated by the invoicing of emergency and emergency needs. We hoped that the issue of health in the vaccination programme would be excluded, that there would be transparency, scientific criteria and justice, particularly after the outcry in December of vaccination by exceptionally over-due, relatives of ministers and party officials. However, the recent period has revealed again a number of violations of the priority vaccinations, as announced by the Ministry on 19 February, with typical cases of party officials, mainly of the New Democracy and others, such as the South Aegean Regional Director, the Vice Mayor and President of the Thessaloniki Municipal Council, their vice mayors, municipal advisors and party friends from the Municipality of Kallithea, twenty-four people at the Social Welfare Centre of Macedonia - who had nothing to do with employees and caregivers - who were concerned with the government journalist and many other examples. In close proximity, however, as I will say below, and the Syrians with the Mayor and the Vice Mayors Vyron. For all the above, Mr Minister, you ask: What do you say to the citizens who are patiently waiting for their turn to be vaccinated, particularly those who belong to vulnerable groups or those who perform a public service, whether public sector or private sector, in the front line and who wait? Will you take measures and what, in order to ensure full transparency and full compliance with the priorities, as is the case every time on the basis of the decisions and rules of the National Vaccine Programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, let me say that the title of your current question is a little excessive: 'Let us stop vaccination'. Vaccination is a privilege and right of many, all of our fellow citizens, and this is the basic principle of government and is respected without exception. In order to implement this policy, Greece had to ensure vaccines for the whole population, so that any citizen who wishes us to make the vaccine have it at his disposal. And that is what we have achieved as a government through the participation of our country in the European agreement on the supply of vaccines. The supply of these quantities, we all know, is gradually being planned and we have had certain quantities in the first quarter of the year for all the countries of Europe, which will increase significantly over the next few years, so that by the beginning of the summer we can have a critical percentage of the population that will enable us to function as an economy at normal rate, but also to have inoculated sensitive and vulnerable groups. The population began to be vaccinated around the end of December and progressed smoothly. We've surpassed a million and a hundred thousand vaccinations. On average there are thirty thousand vaccinations in the country and the more vaccines we receive, the more vaccinated centres open up to our country and serve all our fellow citizens. I would like to remind you that this is an unprecedented, complex, complex project. It is not a simple case and it has enormous difficulties in implementing it and so far this operation has been progressing smoothly. It has to do with both the introduction of vaccines in the country and their preservation, their maintenance and, of course, the vaccination of every citizen who comes to the vaccination centres, the involvement of public bodies from the Ministry of Health to the Armed Forces, the Ministry of Digital Policy and the Civil Protection. Throughout this effort is assisted by the National Transparency Authority, which monitors and verifys that all anticipated. And transparency and respect for lawfulness are done by acts and not by words and is unnegotiable for our Government. "Day vaccinations" do not exist and where someone has been vaccinated out of order and priority has emerged as a result of daily control, both from the information systems available to us and from the checks carried out every day by the National Transparency Authority. In these cases there are specific consequences. You cannot talk about 'day' vaccinations, Mr Kegeroglu, because some, very few, who have been identified by the controls we carried out, have been vaccinated out of order and priority, equating everyone and effectively undermining the effort that is being made so that the population of the country is quickly vaccinated. Two more words, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, instead of trying to avoid answering the 'day' vaccinations, you have carried out a more general analysis of the vaccination plan, which I will say two things, because it has its root and the sketch of planning, which has appeared from the outset. You remember that you brought with amendment on 21 December, one and a half hours after the formal end of the sitting, the notorious amendment of the fifteen or more articles. We have not discussed, suffered the suffering of criticism, control and improvement, and the results are those. Only one third of the vaccination centres have been activated, since you have referred to them, and indeed with a very bad spatial planning that is afflicting people. Spatial planning is another thing. However, the main problem is not the amount of vaccines that have other causes. The main problem is the opacity in the management of the programme and the lack of institutional control to prevent them from happening. You called the National Operational Plan of "Environmental Freedom" vaccination. Is it freedom for everyone, or are there the exceptions? We have the great charge of vulnerable groups. They are waiting patiently for your communications, too, that they should, regardless of whether they belong to the age group, with certain specific criteria and transparency, be able to be vaccinated as a priority. The vaccine is indeed a public asset, but from here some become rosphetti and you are due, instead of covering them, not only to denounce them, but also to send those responsible to the prosecutor. It can't be done! The cheap and false excuse for their part that vaccines would be lost is proof of curiosity, but it's not working. They could have been notified by first-line agents, police, firefighting, port, soldiers, CPIs cleanliness services, social services and municipalities structures, Municipal Police, Civil Service Services of all bodies, FETs, audit stadiums, penitentiaries, external guards, prison health, paramedics and private sector doctors. To get through to something oxymobile, the doctors say, and the pharmacists are vaccinated, but not their assistants, who are at the same time there. Instead of these, then, party friends and voters were vaccinated. The data for the Municipality of Kallithea are creepy. I say in the Minutes the complaint of the 'List of Life - Kostas Ascens', which has the evidence and is asking for specific things. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here it turns out that the traditional value of the Right, that everything happens if you have a barbas in Koroni, it has evolved and expanded to the fact that you don't need a barbas, it's enough barbas in Koroni. He's the Vice Mayor who did all this. Is it minimal for the local community of Kallithea 50 and 100 people? On 19 February the President of the CEDEFOP threatened the government to stop checks by the Municipal Police and close neuro-algal services because officials were not inoculated into the vaccination. At the same time, the Vice-President of the CEDEFOP and Mayor of Kallithea blesses the exceptional procedures. But it's not just him. We also go to the Municipality of Vyrona, because it seems that SYRIZA also follows New Democracy in the customer relations by foot, with Mayor Mr. Katapodis to confirm the fact and not only to confirm it, but also to reveal the greatness of the institutional shortage, so that these black holes do not exist. No one said it was the big majority. But to those who are patient, because a rule and a series have been put in place, there should be absolute transparency and trust, and all this should not just be denounced, stigmatized, but also go to justice. At the same time, tell us how you institutionalise the process so that it does not happen again on a smaller or larger scale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u41	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglu, you referred to four, five, six cases over a total of one million, twenty - four thousand, four vaccinations that had taken place until yesterday. And I told you that all the necessary measures have been taken, both with the computer systems available to us and with the ongoing checks of the National Transparency Authority, so that such incidents can be blocked and, of course, there is no possibility of being vaccinated as a priority by derogating from any legal procedure. You mentioned the dubiousness of planning. There's no handshake in design. It is an integrated design, according to the instructions of the National Committee for Vaccines. If you look at what is happening in the rest of Europe and the world in the vaccination programmes of the population, above - below - our programme follows what is being done in the other countries and with age criteria and, of course, with criteria relating to the vulnerability of the population. You said that one third of the vaccination centres operate. What do you want us to do? Shall we open up all the vaccination centres and set up a communication show when the vaccines we have at our disposal are currently in the population? And we have said so many times that the more vaccines will come, the more vaccinated centres we will open and the greater part of the population will be vaccinated. There is a central control over carrying out the vaccine, which is why we can and can identify such phenomena of invasiveness or by way of derogation from vaccination. And a word, Mr President, about the vulnerable groups in the population, to which Mr Kegeroglu rightly referred. A detailed plan for the vaccination of susceptible groups has been drawn up, with diseases increasing the possibility of a serious disease from COVID -19, based on prioritisation - I stress this - of the National Committee for Vaccinations. The experts decide and they give us the direction we need to follow so that the whole population can be covered with the vaccine, which we so much need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u43	We move on to a circle of four questions to which the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr. Panagiotis Tsakloglou will answer. We will begin with the second question with number 3685-29-1-2021 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: ‘The employer's contributions to the insurance of his employees, engineers and old insured, 2007-2013’. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. It is a question that had been discussed in Parliament's plenary in the summer of 2020. And, because there was no development, despite Minister Brutsi's replies, he was tabled as a simple written question a month ago, but again because of a non-response, he comes for discussion as a timely one. It is a question of the former Occupational Employers' contribution to the insurance of old-age engineers, as you said, for the time being, for which there has been a crisis by various agencies and bodies that the payment must be made. But the OAED question has led to an empty one. The e-ECA asked the Ministry of Labour, on a related question, to know what is in force in accordance with the legislation in force. There are, therefore, individual views which, in my opinion, do not justify the OAED's refusal. Where is OAED involved? He is a Catholic successor to the OEC, the Labour Housing Organization. In any case, Minister Brutsis committed himself in the summer that he will put a question to the Legal Council of State. Because this question, and its content, has not been made known, but it has not been submitted, at least until the date I tabled the second written question, a month ago, we ask the new Minister in fact when this question will be tabled and what will be its content in order to move forward and close this procedure legally and to pay the contributions due by the OEC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much to Mr Kegeroglu. Indeed, as Mr Kegeroglu rightly said, the issue that he raises in public debate is a problem that has often dealt with the services involved and has come to Parliament as well. More specifically, as Mr Kegeroglu said in his question, it has started since 2007, when it was stated that for the old insured employees of the former CMEA, namely those who were insured before 1992, the amount of their contribution was 20%, divided by 1/3 and 2/3 between the insured person and the employer. This change, i.e. an employer contribution for employees, was envisaged. At that time, the services of the former CSMETE informed the OEC of the obligation to pay an employer contribution for its permanent engineers, with initial insurance from 31-12-1992. The OSCE Legal Service, based on earlier provisions, namely Decree-Law No 2963/1954, delivered an opinion on the relevant opinions, which it communicated to the CSMEDE, that the OSCE continued to be exempted from the obligation to pay an employer contribution for the permanent engineers, for whom a contribution was already paid in favour of the former CSME. With the abolition of the OAED, OAED, as his universal successor, began to pay the employer's contributions from 2014 onwards, assuming that the exculpatory provision, if applicable to the OEK, was certainly not the case for him. However, it continued the investigation in relation to its possible obligation to undertake and the obligation to pay those insurance contributions for the period 2007-2013. According to the latest opinion of the OAED Legal Service, in July 2018, the employer contribution to the former OAED was not correctly paid for the period 2007-2013. E-ECA, in its letter in 2018, continues to express its position on an employer contribution obligation by the former OEC for this category of engineers, in particular by noting that the visa of the sickness books and the adoption of the pension decisions of those engineers, which were carried out uninterruptedly throughout the entire period, were due to reasons of good administration and did not alter the operator’s requirement to pay the employers’ contributions. You understand, Mr Kegeroglu, from the history I have just described, the increased complexity - you are also writing it in your question - of this case because of genuinely demonstrable legislation. Moreover, the conflicting positions of the legal sections of the public bodies involved are also explained. For this reason, and in order to resolve a problem that has indeed been delayed, the relevant department of the Ministry of Labour, namely the Department of Main Insurance and Taxation, has submitted a request for an opinion to the independent section of the Legal Board of State, the General Secretariat of Social Security. The request was submitted in September 2020 and, in accordance with the assurances we had from the relevant officials of the Legal Council of State, who have undertaken to monitor the matter, will be able to give us their answer by the end of this month. As soon as we get the opinion of the Legal Council of State, we will obviously be able to launch a final solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you realise that this is a very serious matter for the insured, i.e. the engineers, old-age OHIM members, because it has an impact on them, in the adoption of pension decisions, and it is impossible to calculate the basis for the additional provision of Article 36 of Law No.4387, the Katrugalos Act, which came in 2016. Smaller pensions have been granted and continue to be given to insured persons as a result of this outstanding situation. So it's very important for them. So, I'd say the ministry, unfortunately, got incapacitated. What for? Both bodies are supervised by the same Ministry. And OAED, who is the Catholic successor of the former OEC and cannot say that "I have been paying since the day I took over, but not before". In my view, this issue was resolved with a simple regulation. Because OAED is a universal successor and obligations, not just rights. He took all the real estate of the OEK, took all the programs and the obligations he said "I since 2014". It can't be done. That is one point, therefore, that it is under the same ministry that two operators who have a different assessment and had to be resolved in this context politically, in my view. But we also accept the solution to the Legal Council's opinion, even though it has been delayed. Previously, I said that I had asked the question this summer. Now I see here that much earlier I had asked the question. OAED has taken the question from 21-5-2020. The CRL should have charged these contributions to the OAED, and it has not done so, and it needs an explanation here. Since the non-payment of contributions to the ECA is illegal, they should already have been charged to the OAED and the CRL to have proceeded with their claim, as it does with thousands of individuals. It is no different that we have OAEDs in this case. And let the OAED go to the specific procedure provided for and say that 'I must not put it down'. But the CRL has not completed this process. It is therefore a positive development that you are telling us that by the end of the month, if I understood correctly, the opinion will probably come, in order - hopefully - to resolve this issue, so that the engineers of the former Occupied Territories will not be harmed, but also their families, because it affects pensions and pensions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member Georgios Mulkiotis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Mr Kegeroglu, as I have said to you, I fully understand the need to resolve this issue and, if necessary, to make money available to e-ECA. The Ministry did what I had to do, as, as I pointed out in my prototype, this is an issue of increased legal complexity. Let's be honest. Indeed, there was this suffering of certain insured persons. We will follow this decision of the Legal Council of the State. But let us be absolutely honest with ourselves. There was also a basis for the legal arguments stated by the OAS, the former entity. More generally, I would like to say that, as I said before, the Legal Council of the State has just delivered its opinion on this matter and has given us its opinion, it will also be decided on the final settlement of the matter. But I would like to say something at a more general level, given the opportunity. The dreadful legislation governing social security as a whole is indeed a very serious delay in the operation of the insurance funds and in the decisions they take. Every day I face this challenge and - believe me - every effort is being made in the opposite direction, that is to say, the simplification of procedures. In this context, one of the things we want to do is to codify all insurance legislation, precisely for this reason, namely simplifying all these provisions, simplifying all the things that have gone and wherever there is something that is strange - I do not know if it falls to such a detailed level - to be able to cover that as well. In general, we intend to remain committed to this objective, as we know very well that this is the only way to resolve issues, such as what you have raised today in your question, that is, in a reasonable time, without suffering and possibly wrongful groups of our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u51	We move on to the discussion of the fourth under number 499/1-32021 of the first cycle of MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on "Direct measures to protect the health and life of workers with an obligation for businesses to implement appropriate measures for the dispersion of the korunojon". Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Workplaces along with public transport have become centres for pandemic overtransmission. Many companies do not apply these health measures either - which are, of course, classic - to be shaped in terms of the operation of the capitalist economy - but rather appropriate measures. It is also denounced, Minister, that cases are hidden, but that the necessary tracking is not carried out in many places. This results in a daily increase in cases, intrinsics, deaths, with a recent tragic example of the 40-year-old worker in the supermarkets "SKLAVENITIS". The responsibility lies exclusively with the Government, which has given undertakings the opportunity to take or not even to take critical measures such as the supply of masks to workers, easy access to continuous hand washing, the supply of adequate antiseptics, and the provision of appropriate distances, with changes in jobs, if necessary. With its choice not to impose the mandatory application of all the measures indicated by the scientific community and with its choice not to carry out the necessary controls on businesses, the Government is accountable to the workers, who have paid and paid even with their lives for the Government's choice of support for the capitalist economy and the needs of business groups. After a year, the Government took a decision on a free-of-charge programme for the detection of coronary virus to workers. It was put into operation - supposedly - by the digital work platform - I do not remember the name of the platform at this time - and it is aimed at companies employing more than twenty workers, which can say so that, if they so wish, workers can submit a request for a free COVID test -19 twice a month. Complaints arrive at unions, Minister. Employers' immunity, attempts to cover up incidents and to prevent workers from working under healthly dangerous conditions are challenging and worrying for the spread of cases. Since health, medicines, vaccines, with the policy of arming the exploitation system by the parties to the capital, are expensive goods, because the number of vaccinations depends on the pharmaceutical industry and the adequate supply of the necessary doses, the pandemic will not be eliminated in the near future and the consequences will be tragic, especially in the workplace, so we ask you whether you intend to take immediate measures to protect the health and life of workers, with the obligation of businesses to implement appropriate measures and the continuous and thorough control of their implementation by the labour and health ministries' audit mechanisms and if, today, you can inform us about the number of enterprises that have been sent to the digital platform, how many workers are working and how many have expressed the wish to carry out the free tests per month.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, thank you for your question, because you are giving me the opportunity to address a really important issue. The government as a whole, but also myself in the short term, has repeatedly stressed the importance of the fundamental right to safety and health in the labour market by means of a pandemic. Our duty and duty, particularly in this difficult period, are becoming even greater, as our country, like the whole world, is experiencing the worst health crisis in the past 100 years. In addition to safeguarding jobs, the Ministry of Labour has given priority to protecting workers against the coronary. The checks to ensure compliance with the measures for the protection of public health are carried out by the inspectors of the Labour Inspectorate, i.e. the APR, together with the bodies of the health services of the municipalities and regions, the Greek Police, the port authorities and the National Transparency Authority. In addition to checking that measures against coronary dispersion are respected, however, the ADR also cooperates with the National Public Health Agency in the management of suspected cases at workplaces and in particular in the carrying out of tests, in the isolation of positive cases, in the traceability of their contacts, in the removal from the workplace of workers belonging to vulnerable groups. Specifically for workplaces, the APR has as its primary responsibility the observance of hygiene and safety measures as a whole and against coronary contamination. Checks on compliance with the measures are carried out in the context of general or even targeted controls throughout the territory and focus on the implementation of the current ministerial decisions, whether they apply to all Greek or local level. These measures concerning workplaces include, inter alia, the diligent cleansing and disinfection of workplaces - particularly in the case of suspected or confirmed cases -, the provision of necessary means and materials for the individual hygiene of workers, the provision of workers with information on the risk of coronary contamination and the necessary measures to prevent and protect the work doctor and technical security under the EGE's instructions, the implementation of a suspected COVID-19 case management plan at the workplace, again in cooperation with the EGE, and the conduct of diagnostic tests for the detection of SARS-COV-2 coronary to the workers assessed to have contact with confirmed cases. Mr Katsotis, according to data from the Labour Inspectorate, in 2020 the SEA inspectors carried out a total of fifty-six thousand two hundred forty-for-for-for-for-eight audits, not just for COVID -19. That's the total number. Subsequently these companies imposed a total fine of EUR 19.2 million. This year, in the first two months of the year, eight thousand sixteen audits were made, seven hundred thirty - eight fines were imposed, amounting to EUR 1.8 million. In particular, at this juncture, the Ministry of Labour has successively issued the following circulars - guidelines, which have been sent to more than three hundred enterprises and recipients. In particular, two types of measures have been envisaged: first, specific and strict measures to protect workers who themselves or their relatives have a symptomology and, in accordance with the EGE directives, must remain under house arrest and also for working groups which, according to EGE directives, present an increased risk of infection with COVID-19, so-called ‘sensitive groups’. Secondly, prevention measures at workplaces in cooperation with the Greek Institute of Health and Safety at Work, which is the scientific institute of the social partners in matters of health and safety at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u55	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, all right, as far as your answer is concerned, it also sounds from all the people. I imagine you, too, are unconvincing with what you say, that you control workplaces. Many complaints from trade, food, industry arrive at you. They are asking to meet you, to tell you concrete examples of companies that hide cases that do not track. You refuse to see them, how much more to take action. But that's the way it is. Instead of dealing with life-protection measures, you are dealing with measures, legislative initiatives, so that you can support business groups, remove eight hours, abolish social security, remove rights that have been conquered with blood for so many years. So instead of dealing with workers, you should force magnificence, even now, to take substantial measures to limit the spread, which is very large, and many scientists are talking about a fourth wave beyond the third, you target families, residents coming out of the house and walking in the squares. This development in New Smyrna last night is a disgrace! You're accountable to the people! So you can't hide, Minister. You are, of course, showing the logic you have for the workers. Because these are the victims, these are the cases, these are the intubated ones, the ones who are in the workplace, who are transported in the morning by public transport to go to work, who carry the coroner to the workplace and then to their home. Of these we have deaths, from structures, workplaces, etc. So you show this hideous face of the dictatorship of capital, which requires no control at the workplace, where there is one on the other, where the pandemic is exaggerated, because no measures are observed. No meter! Work inspectors disguise you, Minister. Safety technicians and social inspectors made a statement the other day about the situation in the AAR and how they are unable to carry out work-based checks. So you can't hide. You have too much responsibilities! Instead of working - I will say again - in the life of the workers itself, the Ministry of Labour deals with all this legislative framework that comes to abolish what has been won by the working class. Know that the workers will not allow you to do so. Already through their action they will also safeguard their health and their rights and their lives with the struggles that will be developed. And that's gonna be a lot of them, Mr. Chacloglu. They will be inconsistent with this policy of yours against them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Chacloglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u58	Mr Katsotis, first of all, I would like to refer to the first part of what you mentioned. From the outset, I don't do things that I don't believe, much more when I do it here at the National Representation. Secondly, in my prototype, I mentioned a number of measures that have been taken and still have to be taken according to the context, depending on the needs that exist and every time according to the existing resources. I also think I have seen a number of quantitative elements which I have given you and which I have not seen any doubt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u59	Do you have the company details?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u60	We're talking tens of thousands of checks. The Safety and Health Inspectors of the Labour Inspectorate are responsible for verifying the application of the general and specific health and safety provisions at work and for applying specific measures to prevent the spread of the coronary to the workplace, the health protocols, i.e., the competent inspection authority has been designated, among other things, as a whole of the inspectors of the APRC. In my prototype, I presented the data and the results of the audit throughout the country. I shall then refer to the results of the RSR specifically for the first two months of 2021, but also to the measures we have taken for the vulnerable groups of workers, for which I must say that there is no explicit reference to your question, but we have also taken measures for this category of workers. In particular, the concept of vulnerable groups of private workers was defined by a joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for Labour and Health and the required medical certificates attesting to the worker's subjection to vulnerable groups, as indicated by the recommendations of the National Committee for the Protection of Public Health against COVID -19 were provided for. With a second CSR, number 39363/30-9-2020 of the Ministers for Economic Affairs, Labour and Health, whose validity has been extended, details of the procedure for implementing and of the period of validity of the measures to support, protect and compensate workers belonging to the abovementioned vulnerable groups of the private sector of the economy have been specified. In particular, high-risk persons may, at the request of the employer, provide their work with the distance-to-work system. Where this is not possible, the employer must take steps to ensure that the applicant worker does not provide work for which he is in contact with the public. Finally, in the event that none of the above is possible, private sector employers, irrespective of the activity number code, of the known CAR, shall suspend the employment contracts of these workers in accordance with the provisions in force. Mr Katsotis, with the above framework mentioned by the SEA Labour and Labour Inspectors, they had carried out on a preventive basis in January 2nd - February 2021, especially for COVID -19 in total, two thousand, nine hundred and ninety-five audits and imposed thirty-five fines. Finally, with regard to the programme referred to for the free run of coronary screening tests to employees, which you put in your second sub-quest, the Safety and Health Inspectorate of the OSCE is not involved in the control of its implementation processes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u61	The Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, is! How is he not involved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u62	It's the Department of Health. It's not the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Hatzidakis said about testing.gov in business. They'll call the workers. How is the Ministry of Labour not involved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u64	I repeat, the particulars on this basis that you said earlier, ergasia.testing.gov.gr, are from the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u65	We shall now proceed to the debate on the next two questions, which is of the same Member. The first of these is the third with No 487/1-32021 topical question by the Member of the Boeotian Party of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Abrogation of the reduction of the national pension for members of the Greek minority of Albania and of relatives from the countries of the former Soviet Union". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the question is with a very specific content, given that there is a reduction in the national pension under the years of permanent residence in Greece from the countries of the former Soviet Union and the Greek minority of Albania. It is planned that a full national pension should be granted, provided that the pensioner is permanently and legally resident in Greece for forty years between the 15th year of his age and the year of his retirement. Otherwise, we will have a reduction of one forty per year, which is forty years permanent and legal. We believe that one of the main objectives of the social state is the efficient and socially fair distribution of economic resources among citizens, solidarity, social justice and ensuring an adequate and decent standard of living for all of the pensioners. Our compatriots from the Northern Continent and from Pontus came to our country in the 1990s, Minister. They got the Special ID card homonymous in 1998. So it is objectively impossible to complete forty years of residence in our country. The New Democracy, as opposition, had promised to see this matter immediately. As a government, it has not yet implemented the pre-election and post-election commitment - and here in the House - to abolish the reduction in the national pensions of the members of the Greek minority of Albania and of the expatriates from the Soviet Union. This is the difference provided for by No.4387/2016. You ask: do you intend to proceed with this process at some point to abolish the reduction in the national pension of members of the ethnic minority of Albania and of the relatives of the Soviet Union? Secondly, what action can you take to ensure that this unfavourable provision does not actually apply to the reduction of national pensions for a 40-year-old who falls short of the 40-year-olds laid down by the law? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u67	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, thank you for your question. I would like to clarify a few things in the context of the issue of national pensions and the conditions for granting it. As you mentioned, the national pension is granted in full subject to insurance of at least 15 years and the legal and permanent residence of forty years in Greece between the 15th year of the age and the retirement year. A similar condition exists for the social solidarity allowance for unsecured overtime. It's badly called a pension for uninsured overtime. However, these two benefits are granted in a completely different sense, which I will explain, but they are potentially related to both of the homosexuals. National pensions are a provision financed by the State budget, which aims to protect pensioners from the risk of poverty and social exclusion. It is, however, based on the insurance history and is therefore not a provision of a probative nature. As regards the criterion of residence for the granting of a national pension, as laid down in Article 7 of Law No4387/2016, beneficiaries are persons residing permanently and legally in Greece for at least fifteen years. The full amount of the national pension, EUR 384, shall be granted, if forty years of residence and twenty years of insurance. The amount shall be reduced by 2% for each year of insurance, which shall be less than twenty years, of course not less than fifteen years and forty-five years for each year of residence, which shall be forty-four years. On this point, I would like to make two critical points on the question of the criterion before I specifically reply to your question about the relatives from Albania and the former Soviet Union. The residence criterion I mentioned is a criterion which is not a Greek originality. There are other countries in Europe that have a pension system that give something similar to our own national pension. And there is one of the main criteria that exist is the criterion of residence. Precisely because the national pension is financed by the State budget and has stipulated a contributory nature, it must be ensured that these people have paid taxes and levies before they receive this kind of pension. The second is that, contrary to what is often said in the public debate, the criterion of residence is not only applicable to the expatriates from Albania or the former Soviet Union, etc., but also to those who have now left, with Brain Drain, if they want to return to Greece later with the existing legislation, and to them, the corresponding reductions in national pensions can arise. This ensures the principle of equality and implements one of the basic requirements of the rule of law, which is not only the application of laws, but also the equal treatment of citizens. However, you said something I would agree with you. Indeed, the question of the residence criterion is something that we have been concerned with at the Ministry of Labour, particularly in the period before the pandemic. The revision of the criteria for granting national pensions and the restoration of any injustices exist due to the specific circumstances of these categories of migrants, which you mentioned in your timely question, should be made at an overall level and, above all, with an approach that is responsible, both socially and economically. I think we all realise that the priorities imposed by an exogenous factor, such as pandemic, are now the maintenance of jobs, support for businesses and households, always within a strict and fully dynamic health environment. In any case, the limited resources we have to deal with the conditions that have been created must be used scrupulously and by setting the priorities that I have mentioned. On the government side, however, we believe that there should be two objectives with the end of the pandemic. Firstly, to remain as long as possible alive as possible on economic activity and, secondly, to restore injustices and correct distortions that have been transferred over time because of the pandemic. In this last sentence, I would like you to stand in particular. In any case, we do not undo what has been said and do not take back the commitments made. However, we must all understand that the circumstances have changed, so we must adapt to the new data.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u69	All right, Minister. The rest in your dentistry. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I do not know, but rather more clarification and clarification is needed, because I think we are more confused with the answer you have given today. It is impossible to implement the provision of this legal provision in fact. It can't be done differently. These people have been here since 1990, in 1998 they got their identity -- haven't they? - the Special ID card of Homogeneous. We cannot, whether we like it or not, cover the provision of Article 7 of L.4387/2016. For this reason, he had made contacts on several occasions when the New Democracy was in the opposition. I'll put it in the Minutes, Minister. I don't know if you know. A Press Release of the New Democracy of 17 January 2019: ‘The President of the New Democracy Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis met today with representatives of the Greek national minority in Albania, with whom he discussed the issues that concern them and reiterated his interest and his full support and that he will repeal the provision provided for by the new insurance reform.’. Insurance reform has been made. No provision, full default. ‘CONTRIBUTION’ means a ‘Mitsotakis commitment to a national pension from Albania’. I'll submit it to the Minutes. In the postersnews.gr: "Metsotakis firework at Christos Massora. Commitment on the pensions of North-East European countries.’ In this particular case, Mr Mitsotakis promised: 'Change the legislation on national pensions to the expatriates of Albania.' Other publications, too. But I'll say something else, and I'll testify to the Minutes. I'll submit to the minutes of the Citizens' Counselor, Minister. I do not know if you are aware of this if your services have taken it into account. It is addressed to the Directorate-General for Social Security, the Commander of the EFCA and the Commander of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Among other things, it states: ‘The principle states, first, that the national pension is an insurance benefit granted under the Greek insurance system, which is an element of which is that the grant and calculation of benefits are made on the basis of previous insurance rather than the universal system covering the population, based on the residence of the State of award. The latest residence criterion shall be foreign to the Greek insurance system.’ They are documents which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, Minister. It is now clear that there is one non-compliance with the promises. And especially here, in this particular case, we cannot say that it can be implemented somewhat differently. It is objectively impossible to observe, cover and fulfil the conditions of the law for these particular fellow citizens. It's no different. That is why, when he was chief of the opposition officer, Mr. Mitsotakis, promised what he promised. However, today we have a complete failure to respect these promises. But I am impressed - and I want you to take a position - on the opinion of the Citizens' Counsellor, who is against what the Ministry says today. So to make it clear what's going on with these people. Will the state take care to settle them or will they remain prey to such a provision? And of course, don't tell me again about the pandemic. We know it, we respect the situation, the efforts of the government, and we're backed up. But, in particular, this category must be regulated by law, Minister. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u71	Mr Minister, before I give you the floor, I would like to tell you that this matter has been raised on several occasions both in SYRIZA and with the Government of our own New Democracy - I say 'our own', not as President-in-Office, as a Member of Parliament - and it supports the whole of the parliamentary group. And I would like to add to what Mr Mulkiotis said that the Prime Minister, a man who does not promise easily, can blame him for anything other than saying easily and demagogically - was committed to resolving it. So you need to see - taking into account, of course, why I understood what you said, the financial perspective after the pandemic - sympathetic to this request as a new leadership. I'm sorry for the speech, but it was a supplement to what I heard. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u72	It was quite justified, Mr President. Dear Mr Mulkiotis, I think that this time you have not listened carefully to what I said in my prototype. I stressed that the government does not withdraw its promise. We live there. The only thing I said was that we are simply translating its implementation over time, precisely because of the needs that pandemic has created in the budgetary field. We don't forget. We'll do it. Now, I would again like to repeat that the government's intention is to correct the injustices and distortions created in previous years. However, the outbreak of the pandemic forced us to turn our attention to areas that no one expected a few months ago. I repeat, however, that the broader design of the Ministry of Labour includes the question of national pensions and the conditions for social groups such as their relatives. All that changes is our time of intervention, which is clearly dependent on the conditions that are being shaped and, unfortunately, they are very volatile. For example, a few months ago I replied to a similar question from the SYRIZA Member, Mr Balafa. Then the development of the pandemic at a global level seemed different from the one formed a few months later. Evidently, developments often impose restrictions on the basis of which politicians are asked to do the best, but with the restrictions at a time. The available data show that, in both health and economic terms, we have done better than many European countries with a similar structure of economic activity. In fact, these countries had a lower level of public debt and therefore, in fact, less severe restrictions on the exercise of policies to protect businesses, workers and households. The recently published figures show that the recession in our country was significantly lower than expected, while unemployment in Greece has increased much less than in other Member States - Member States of the European Union. In other words, the money we have spent there also has a result. In any case, I would like to assure the relatives who are listening to us that their question is not forgotten. We know the situation and at the right time we will do our best, based on what we have already committed. With society upright, the citizens safe and the economy alive we will have every chance of achieving these commitments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u73	Good. We move to the fourth with number 3650/461/28-1-2021 question and application for documents of the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of the Bootia of the Change Movement Mr.Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: “Following the rules of health and safety at the “Physical Fertilizers Industry” of Neo Karvalis Kavalas and the successors.” Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question refers to the Nea Karvalis Phosphoric Fertilizers industry in the Kavala Regional Unit. It refers to a specific facility in which companies are multiple. There are many companies outside. This is a special case. So, in these facilities and successors, there is an explosive situation, as in addition to the work differences between owners and workers, who have led in recent months to extreme working precarious conditions, there seems to be no guarantee of hygiene and safety standards. It should be noted, of course, that the fertilisers belong to the scope of SEVESO directives, which, although at times have experienced problems in their implementation, have made a significant contribution to upgrading the critical safety sector in general, and in particular to dealing with major accidents. Occupational precariousness also leads to accidents at the workplaces of the heavy and unhealthy professions, which endanger or lead to the loss of human life. Of course, if there are any accidents in this area and in this industry, we will have unpredictable results not only in human lives, but in general in the environment. We have repeatedly called for information from the Ministry - on 10-32020 and on 29-62020 - on questions and requests for documents on what is going on in this industrial installation. The Ministry refuses to respond, refuses to give a written answer what has been done. And we are now coming with the timely question procedure to ask you to answer exactly what we have asked. I repeat the questions: How many controls have been carried out and when have the appropriate control mechanisms been carried out over the last five years in the Nea Carvalis Phosphoric Fertilizers Industry and the successor companies that exist? What action does the Ministry intend to take to ensure the safety of workers and that there are no possible accidents in the future? What is the government's strategy on health and safety at work, especially in SEVESO industries? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u76	I would again like to thank the President and Mr Mulkiotis. I would like to say that the Government and the Ministry of Labour attach great importance to the health and safety issues of workers by developing, through their relevant services, action at both legislative and audit level. Before I come to the essence of your question, Mr Mulkiotis, I would like to point out that, especially in matters such as the 'Psostic Fertilizers Industry', Neos Karvalis Kavalas and the successor companies, there is a joint ministerial decision, which lays down the rules for the protection of workers from the risks of major accidents involving dangerous chemicals. More specifically, there is provision for cooperation between the relevant bodies not only with the Ministry of Labour but also with five other ministries. And these are the Ministry of the Interior, Economic, Development, Health and Environment. The provisions of the Code on Health and Safety at Work, as ratified by the first article of Law No.3850/2010, apply to all enterprises and farms and the private and public sectors and to all workers employed in any employment relationship, including trainees and apprentices. Under the terms of the above Joint Ministerial Decision, the services of different ministries, including the relevant department of the Ministry of Labour, are presented with opinions - mainly responsibility - to the competent licensing authority. It should also be noted that in accordance with Article 19 of that Joint Ministerial Decision, periodic inspections and checks are provided for at regular intervals in establishments falling within that field. The competent authorising authorities of the country shall be responsible for organising and carrying out these checks. Who are these? They are the Regional Development Directorates as well as they may also be Central Ministries, after decision of the relevant Regional Director or Minister, as appropriate. In this case, it is responsible for the Development Directorate of the Regional Unit of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. Those inspections are invited to participate local bodies and the Regional Unital Services to which each installation is subject, representatives from health services, the Civil Protection Agency, the competent Safety and Health Inspectorate at the Work of the AAR, the Chemical Service and the Firefighting Body in this particular case. Where appropriate, such inspections may be carried out by representatives from central offices of the Ministries and other bodies at the invitation. Control of the provisions of labour safety and health at work is carried out by the relevant SEA Health and Safety Inspectors, who can carry out checks outside the above framework, setting up committees - by the competent authorities concerned. In other words, they can also take their own initiative. To respond to the audits carried out by the OSH services in these industries over the past five years in relation to the way in which industry operates and the respect of the health and safety conditions, I should like to say that, according to the information we have received from the competent Department of Safety and Health Inspection of Kavala, the OSH has carried out a total of fifty-nine controls on the implementation of safety and health legislation at the New Karval fertiliser production facilities, followed by two administrative sanctions - fines, that is - for identified infringements. At the same time, it investigated the circumstances and the causes of sixty-nine accidents in fertiliser production facilities during the above period, one of which was characterised as serious. The APRC, following its audits, has submitted research reports and monthly reports to the competent public prosecutor for all the cases in question. With regard to specific control issues, it was found from the APRC audits that the permanent crane bridges used by the company ‘Kavalas Fertilizers’ were equipped with certificates of lifting fitness, while the work machines operating in the space - forklifts, lifts, loaders, self-propelled cranes, etc. - which belonged to contractors, were accompanied by certificates of suitability for lifting machinery, in force of marketing licences, as well as insurance contracts and all necessary evidence. Since my time has elapsed, I will answer specifically the question about SEVESO, which you have already asked, and the relevant documents you have submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u78	Minister, I do not know why the Ministry did not reply twice to the question that was tabled in writing and did not submit the documents to the House, to see what is happening. I should just like to mention that the current Minister was the first rapporteur on a topical question from the New Democracy on December 21, 2018, who was a transparent preacher of the company's illegality along with other MPs and current ministers of the New Democracy. I shall submit the relevant document in the Minutes. In December 2018, Mr Hatzidakis said specifically that “ELFE” is a company of interests in fact Laurentis Laurentiadis, which has major debts to PPC, PPC, banks and has been detained, has been denounced for illegal and collusive method and creation of virtual companies to which “ELFE” assets have attributed, in order to avoid paying debts, is a temporary employment company. It also raises various other issues in particular. It says it is illegal, among other things, in fertiliser industries because of unhealthy and heavy labour and risk of working through temporary workers' companies, as they are employed there. There are issues, Minister, which you do not answer. In general today, therefore, I hear that there are indeed controls. I wish we could see both the documents and the checks that have been carried out and how these checks have been carried out. However, there are questions that so far I do not know whether they will be answered by the documents you will give us. But, Minister, for the LTD Kavala Fertilizers Branch currently in force, we have been asking for information since March 2020 and had not been informed to the Ministry and we do not know whether, with the successive changes of the organisation, workers are transferred from the old to the new organisation and if there are new staff trained in matters of safety, hygiene and implementation of an emergency and fire protection plan before taking up duties. We do not know whether the company's qualified staff were properly inspected. We do not know whether the protection measures for hot and cold work in enclosed areas, which the Ministry's responsible address says in a SEVESO document, which refers to the conditions of installation, are being respected and operated. We do not know either whether the company is implementing a policy to prevent major accidents and a safety management system, both for staff and contractors and for the environment, visitors and customers. We do not know whether an inspection has been carried out in accordance with the provisions of SEVESO. We do not know whether an updated safety notification and study file has been submitted as ‘LTD ports Foreign branch LTD Fertilizers’. In the SEVESO III study, there is a control over the subsidence of the unit to SEVESO devices, on the basis of institutionalised rules, a description of hazardous substances in accordance with the European Union Regulation, a recognition of specific risks, an updated assessment of the extent of serious and consequences of major accidents. We also do not know what action the Ministry intends to take to ensure the safety of workers and to avoid potential accidents and environmental impacts from industrial installations and, above all, we do not know what the government's strategy on health and safety at work is, if there is a plan to upgrade and strengthen control mechanisms, given the current situation, which is not so satisfactory. Nobody says that. Is there a plan in particular? Is there a plan to adopt additional preventive measures in relation to this situation? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, with regard to the instructions provided for in SEVESO III, validated by KYA 172058/2016, periodic inspections of ‘Cavalas Fertilizers’, etc. which are organised by the locally responsible Development Directorate of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace on an annual basis or even exceptionally, I would like to note that the Office of Safety and Health Inspectorate of the Kavala SAR participates without delay in the committee set up for that purpose. The Committee's findings and observations shall be sent to the undertaking by means of a document from the above department in the region. In the last two years, the inspections on the undertaking under SEVESO III have been carried out on 22 October 2019 and 9 September 2020, while the Labour Health and Safety Inspectors also carried out inspections of facilities on their own matters. According to information from the competent services of the Ministry of Labour Health and Safety of the Ministry of Labour in the case of Kavala Fertilizers, the competent licensee is the Development Directorate of the Regional Unit of East Macedonia and Thrace, in which the competent department of our Ministry has already submitted relevant opinions on the need to complete the data submitted by the company in order to meet the completeness criterion of the safety dossier. The above-mentioned licensing authority, i.e. in the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace, has provided evidence of any checks in the context of the implementation of the measures provided for by KYA 172058/2016. It should be noted, however, that the specific address of the Ministry of Labour was never called upon to participate together with other bodies in the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace under control at the installation of the ‘Kala Lifts’. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] According to information from our competent services, in which the results of the audits carried out by the competent Department for the authorisation of the Development, Energy and Natural Resources of the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace were communicated, the latest SEVESO inspection was carried out in the autumn of 2020, as I said before, and the results were notified to nineteen recipients, including the relevant Ministries, Firefighting, the competent Civil Protection Department and the Labour Inspectorate of the APRC. From the control and according to the report - and I quote - 'the bulk store of ammonium nitrate fertilisers has been found U700 to have holes and openings both on the roof and on the sides'. The existence of holes involves, the report says, two important risks: firstly, the influx of water, resulting in a degraded ammonia nitrate, and secondly, the contamination of ammonia from organic materials, as well as the creation of a degraded ammonia nitrate, which can be disintegrated and disintegrated. In the nitrite-pollution plant, there were also found to be piles of wood from pallets of packaging materials and other bitons with mineral residues, which in the report are characterised as extremely dangerous materials when found in an ammonia nitrate environment. This report was communicated, as I said, to all the co-legislative ministries and the state's institutional bodies involved in such checks. According to the report of the Directorate-General for Regional Development of the Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, a new inspection of the operation will be followed in the next few years to determine whether the company was in compliance with the results and the findings of the last audit. I should also like to submit the documents you have requested to us. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u81	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the fourth with the number 500/1-32021 topical question of the second question of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Direct measures to support clubs and athletes for the relaunch of sport". The Secretary of State for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Eleftherios Aeggeakis. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. One really fails to monitor what is embarrassingly and paranoidly happening in the field of sport, with the sole responsibility of the government. There are so rapid developments that even the content of topical and urgent questions necessarily needs to be updated. Restarting sport activity has become a real joke. Since last November, you've put a padlock on. The latest government's decision to extend the bans until at least 16 March in the championships - which opened just a week ago - and the suspension of the training that had been allowed has given rise to justified strong reactions in the field of sport, particularly amateur sport, and sports federations. Who is responsible for the dissolution situation in the field of sport? Are athletes, coaches, parents, governors, unions, federations, contagiousists? Who's responsible? Do they keep or keep not all the sanitary protocols with rapid test every week? They absolutely keep them and, indeed, by handing them in the pocket for tests and personal protective equipment, without any support from the government. That is why, of course, I will say more in my dentistry about the support measures for clubs of athletes for the restart. The sports world, Mr President, has a say and does not tolerate the government's lies. There can be no double standards in categories of the same health protocols. At the pole and the beadball, the virus sticks. Men's volleyball doesn't fit, but the female's got a stick. Basket League doesn't fit, but also in the A1 women and the A2 men stick the coronary. In Super League 1 and 2 football, it doesn't fit, but in Football League, in the third National and the football of women there is stuck with the coronary. What paranoidly these are all and, above all, this huge lie that is heard, that sport is one of the largest sources of coronary dispersion when the tests carried out from May to today have shown that the positive indicator of the sports that operates is 0.04%!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u83	Finish it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u84	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think that the mud in sport must be stopped in order to cover the government's responsibilities. The virus cannot be transmitted only to the small categories, that is, where there is no much money. We therefore put a very simple question and a serious question at the same time: what does the government intend to do in order to lift the lockdown and return sport to the small categories, but also to the wider range of amateur sport? Of course, with all protection measures - self-evident - and with a specific framework of support for associations and athletes, providing conditions for uninterrupted rebooting of sport. Finally, what will happen to support them now - not yesterday, after a month, two months - players, workers and their families, in terms of their income and security? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u85	Good. Mr. Ausgeakis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. My dear colleague, you are once again coming to the House relatively unprepared, without any evidence, but you are only trying to create impressions. As I have often informed the Step here, with the start of the pandemic and the adoption of restrictive measures in mid-March, the General Secretariat of Sport began working on the relaunch of sport under the new conditions, depending on the evolution of epidemiological data. The pandemic has been dealt with all this time by applying the strict health protocols and directives that have already been produced, enriched with experience and adapted to the general measures taken for our country. In addition to the detailed health measures we have taken, we have also taken care of the financial support of amateur sports clubs. After twelve years, Mr Colleague, we proceeded to the direct grant, without intermediaries, of amateur sports clubs with a total of about EUR 13.5 million available for their direct support. Look, that is why we created the Registry of Sports Associations, which you voted against, if you remember correctly, and so we now ensure that public funds are made transparent and, of course, on objective criteria that are known to everyone in advance. In particular, there is only one criterion, at least for the money that we have so far given, to determine the amount for each club that has completed its application in the register: how many sports it cultivates with the necessary specific athletic recognition by the General Secretariat of Sports. A amateur club that practices a single sport therefore receives 2,500 euros. All amateur sports clubs cultivate additional sports recognised as collecting an additional 1,000 euros for each additional sport. As you can see, in the Registry of Sports Clubs they are already pre-registered - because the register is accessible in contrast to what you were saying, if you remember well, in this Chamber - five thousand hundred and eighty-two sports clubs on the Sports Secretariat website, where the three thousand-hundred-hundred board of eight unions already financed with the total amount of 9,672,000 euros is posted. In addition, in order to facilitate even more the unions in this critical period, we have taken care of lightning, I would say, for their inclusion in the additional CSR for support measures and during the Lockdown in November. In addition, I would remind you that we have also made tax reductions for the benefit of sport. Under Law 4714/2020 of the Ministry of Finance, we arranged that, firstly, the tickets to sports games be subject to a reduced rate of VAT, 13% from 24%, with the aim of maintaining them at low levels and reducing their final prices, as well as the stimulus to their demand and, secondly, that the income tax of coaches be treated as equal to that of paid athletes. In Law 4646/2019 we predicted a reduction of the tax rate to 22%, from 45%, for the amounts paid by sports anonymous companies to athletes for the signature of a reciprocity contract or for the renewal or termination of a contract, but also for the reduction of the tax by 20%, from 10% to 10%, on the amounts of donations to amateur clubs alone. We have given a solution to a reasonable and crucial request from many amateur sports clubs in terms of the movements of their athletes. On the basis of Article 66 of Law 4735/20, a decision of the City Council will be possible to provide financial grants to sports clubs to promote the sport concerned, as well as to cover travel costs of athletes and sports teams located in their area. For the measures that will be implemented in the next period, I will inform you immediately afterwards, in my dentistry. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u87	Good, Minister. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u88	Other words to be loved, Mr President, because that is what this is all about. It avoids giving substantial answers to the pressing questions posed by the sports world and with which the Communist Party of Greece fully harmonizes. That is why we are bringing them up for discussion here. And it's a good wonder where the Minister is taking it, honestly. Who gives the right not only to the Minister, to the government as a whole, to play with their lives, to the future of athletes, to their workers and families? I will present to you in the Proceedings - I suppose it is in your mind - the joint announcement issued by the Pan-Hellenic Association of Football Sports, the Pan-Hellenic Association of Remunerated Basketballists, the Association of Greek Sports Sports Sports Association of Greece, the Pan-Hellenic Sports Association of Sports Sports Association, the Pan-Hellenic Association of Loyed Pettospheres, the Association of Greek Sports Water Sports Sports Association. I will also present another communication, a letter, which has sent remarkable swimmers from all over the country, expressing precisely this anxiety, that you have them actually written in the oldest shoes. Because that's what this is about. All this has been added, Mr President, to a systematic deterioration of the modern folk right in the field of sport. And the Minister comes here and has the courage to talk about the crumbs of funding. On what pretext? That the previous ones didn't give. And finally, what is it? What he gives is not enough either for the accountant or for the union lawyer to collect all those bureaucratic documents to join the sports register. And he's making fun of unions! He's making fun of the unions! It is the suffocating control of unions and federations with the register and the well-known ultra-reactive restructurings, such as the recent amendment to electronic assemblies and votes in forthcoming elections, changes to lobbying committees, which in no way ensures that the process is inconsistent. So, what's he doing? Two birds with one stone! And he has the approval, the favor of the Prime Minister, the Minister. So, what do they want? They want sport with closed stadiums, closed swimming pools, until the smaller teams and money mice disappear to party. I mean, what? The private market scope for investment projects is open, ensuring Feds' willingness to promote business action in sport. That is the real intention on the part of the government. The question is, however, what will happen. It's the second serious issue. Say tomorrow you open it on the 16th. How will sports activities be reinitiated? The opening of a few days before reintroducing sports in Lockdown, it showed that the ball of health protocols threw it to the athletes, parents and unions. The unions, however, are unable to cope economically with the requirements and needs of restarting their activities. What do you think? With the two grand that you give them, will they be relaunching, which they have already given and owe over both the accountants and the lawyers? For example, it is planned to start running the butts with four athletes along the way instead of twenty. Before the pandemic was twenty. This is a very high cost, which will be borne by parents. In other words, in essence, the four athletes are invited to pay the cost of the twenty athletes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Secondly, the cost of diagnostic tests is to be borne. Although the mandatory test is properly provided for every week, the State does not cover it either by the EGE. It only covers one test.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u89	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u90	That is, 20 euros per rapid test for four times a week is 80 euros! If it is two children, it reaches 160 euros and for multiples to 250 euros. Also an inhibiting factor for the reopening of clubs are the unbearable rents in sports facilities, which can cost between EUR 15 and 20 per route. Similar problems exist at the start of the Third National Football, which thousands of workers - players, coaches - have been without income for four months and have been facing very serious bio-reporting problems. So we ask you, for the second time, in my dentistry, Mr Minister: what will you do so that sport can be reinitiated and applied all the measures and protection instruments, similar to those taken by the large professional categories, with state responsibility and funding, without any burden on sports and parent clubs? The state for its own sports facilities will relieve clubs of rents or will they be generously reduced? These are the questions that are asked and you must answer, not in general terms, with election announcements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u91	Good. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u92	As you can see, Mr President, I will also need your tolerance because there are too many questions and I will have to give concrete answers and figures, which I hope will be heard by my colleague. As you know, we are not complacent, we are not resting on the important measures that we have taken up to now and which are recognized by the entire sporting community, the entire sports family. And we continue, every day we step up efforts with hard work and in collaboration with the executives of our Ministry and the sports family as a whole, we create the preconditions for the uninterrupted relaunch of sport. We clearly support amateur sport and form the sports of the 21st century. On the occasion of this, then, I should like to inform you of the next initiatives that we will implement immediately, and we will finally see what the attitude of your party will be. Firstly, in the bill that we are bringing in the next few days in this House, as the consultation has been completed, we are bringing in a provision for amateur athletes. What does this provision introduce? It is defined that athletes who are struggling in clubs that participate in the A2' National Basketball Class of Men, 1' National Football Class of Women, A1' National Basketball Category of Women, A1' National Football Class of Women, A1' National Football Class of Women, A1' National Aqueduct Category of Men's Water Sports Class, A1' National Sports Class of Men's and Women, can sign a relevant private sports service agreement, which will be submitted to the respective federations. Let me clarify, for those who do not know, that these accusations that I mentioned today are considered amateur and we are re-examined to add other accusations. If, therefore, financial exchanges amount to a minimum of EUR 3 000, there is an obligation for the athlete to be insured under the special 1% contribution scheme. In simple terms, for those who are following us, by this arrangement, the current amateur athletes - by name only amateurs, as this is their main activity, from it, live their families - are guaranteed and will be able to have insurance cover. If this provision existed, they could be included in protection measures from the very beginning. In other words, we support amateur athletes with actions and not with words and theories. I hope, my dear colleague, that you and your party will vote in favour of this provision in the next few days to come to plenary. Secondly, we continue the financial support of amateur associations. In the next period, within the month of March - keep it -, it is expected that the process of payment of financial aid will begin and the other amateur unions that have completed their registration by 31-12-20. In other words, it is a thousand four hundred three unions that will receive an additional EUR 3.5 million. Let me remind you - as I said at the outset - that they already have three thousand four hundred and eight amateur associations of EUR 9,672,000. At the same time, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, we are preparing a proposal to fund sports teams from the revenues that will be generated by the new way of taxing gambling. In other words, we specialise the procedure laid down in Article 79 of Law 4764/2020. I would remind you that Article 79 of Law 4764 stipulates the new way to tax gambling per card. The same provision stipulates that a percentage of this new form of taxation will be used by the General Secretariat of Sports to finance sports teams. The Government fully implements its commitments, supports amateur sport and gives part of the tax on gambling to sport itself. Thirdly, in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, with Minister Voridis, we are working on a proposal in which we are investigating the possibility of financing the municipalities to undertake the cost of the preventive periodic testing of diagnostics for the coronary in local unions. Depending on the sport and the category to which the teams belong, they will also make a certain number of checks. In particular, we examine, first, universal control of all athletes A1, A2' amateur group sports and C' National and, second, sampling on smaller categories. We've already classified sports as hazard categories. So, depending on sport, the periodicity of the tests will be in high-risk sports once a week, in mid-risk sports one per 15 days and in low-risk sports one per month. We have estimated a total cost at around EUR 4 million. That's the amount we're looking for to cover in the next critical quarter all amateur sport. There is common interest with the Ministry of the Interior and I am sure that we will soon be able to announce concrete measures on the subject of tests, which employs thousands of amateur athletes. Fourthly, in cooperation with the Committee on Logistics, the Health Scientific Committee of the General Secretariat of Sport works to prepare and monitor even stricter Sport protocols. The aim is this Friday to present up-to-date information on the even safest functioning of sport. In particular, for the reopening of football championships of men Football League, women's First National, Basketball of Women First National, Basketball of Men A2's Category, Women's First National Football, Water Sports of Men and Women A1's Class, Man's and Women's A1's Category, for the Third National Sports Class of Men's Soccer and for the First National Football Slag of Men, of course, for both the operation and use of open swimmers, both for athletes and candidates for the pan-European examinations. Fifthly, and I will conclude by mentioning the issue of elections to the sports federations, to which you have also referred. We have received a number of questions from sports players about the possibility of an end until the end of March of the general conventions and antiquations with a natural presence, with exceptional permits to move and gather. The Secretary-General of Sports and Coordinator of the GAA Scientific Committee, Mr Mavrotas, addressed a question to the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Chardalia. On the basis of his responsibilities and his full daily picture of the evolution of the epidemiological situation in our country, he replied: "I appreciate for the next few weeks that the restrictive measures for moving from county to county have been lifted and mass meetings allowed. After all, they all know that we are fighting every day in order not to further exacerbate the epidemiological situation, both in the large urban centres and throughout the country. Therefore, for reasons of public health protection and given that there is an alternative possibility of remote participation and voting, there are no grounds for granting exceptional permits to move and to assemble prefectures from all over Greece at local meetings and antiquities at the same time.’ I would also like to present the relevant document as a response to what you have falsely mentioned in the closure of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u93	We continue with a group of four questions concerning the issues of the Ministry of Education, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr Zoe (Zetta) Makri. We begin with the first with the number 481/25-2-2021 timely question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Pipilis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The national re-engineering of our students". Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I wanted to place myself on an idea that I see the Ministry already responds to. Celebration for national regression is not only a trigger for celebrations, but mainly for me it is an incentive for the children to participate in our history. Especially in heroic places, the history of the Revolution of 1821 literally meets everyday life. At least half the Greeks, how rather children who live in the region, have as their starting point their own historical knowledge of the villages, while the faces, the protagonists who emerged during the Revolution of 1821 are familiar with them even before their first school years, because these faces and these moments of history meet them daily with the males who are everywhere, with the busts, with the small local museums, but mainly with the scattered monuments. So I thought I might put a question and ask whether, on the part of the Ministry of Education, there is a relative preparation for the participation of pupils in celebrations, with a framework of action which, for example, highlights the historical sites of their own region. And because it is not only the interest, especially when it comes to children, but also the reward, if these small participants will be rewarded, of course in line with the standards that the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs will set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u95	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question. I will agree with you that the Greek Revolution of 1821, after great struggles and battles, has led to the creation of an independently organized Greek state. It goes without saying - and that is why you are also asking the Ministry - that we could only be actively involved in the celebrations of the two years since the Greek Revolution with various events. Clearly, the flame of freedom and national independence moved the revolutionary mind of all Greeks. The particular circumstances of each place - and you mentioned it - identified the form of the race and the means taken by their inhabitants, depending on the nature of each region. And we all have stories that are brought from generation to generation about how our ancestors fought, depending on our place of origin, and how they contributed to the decisive struggle of our country's independence. On the occasion of your question, I will focus on my protology, my colleague, at an event that is of particular importance to the Ministry's assessment. It is an event organized and conducted by the IPA, the Institute for Educational Policy, under the auspices of our Ministry. It is about organising the student competition on the subject: "Revolutionary struggle and local history. Twenty-one places tell their participation in the fight of independence." This competition aims at the activities of students and students in our country through original work that will highlight the military, political, cultural participation of their country in the fight of independence. Therefore, this unique contribution of each Greek country to the fight of independence is called upon and to study and present with their work students and students. This competition brings students and primary and secondary school students from all of Greece to teams, of course always with the guidance of one or more teachers at their school. Students and students are invited to conduct research, to search for sources of information about the participation of their place in the Greek Revolution and the material of the sources that they gather and their conclusions from the processing of the material, along with what they consider necessary for their work, such as maps, images, tables, tables, will present it in either a ten-page historical test piece, which will deliver in electronic form, or alternatively, instead of a written testimonium, their work can take the form of video recording its stages and framed with actions, sound and images. The tendering procedure shall be conducted with the assistance of the Ministry's regions and educational departments. Primary and secondary school units, of which students will participate in the competition, will participate by 15 March 2021 in the addresses. Under the responsibility of the Regional Director, a three-member evaluation committees consisting of training coordinators and specialists will be set up. The first evaluation will be carried out at regional level, taking into account the assessors and assessors of the differentiation and adaptation of the content of the work, depending on the age and class of the pupils. The procedure will be completed on 10 October 2021. The best work will be sent to the IPP and the thirty-nine together will qualify for twenty one, highlighting the contribution of twenty of a Greek place in the fight of independence. The final evaluation shall be completed on 30 October 2021. We are now coming to your question about the required reward. The three best of each region will be praised. The three best from across the territory will be awarded an honorary distinction, together with books of the Foundation of the Hellenic Parliament for Parliament and the Democracy, and, if conditions allow, we propose that the President of the Parliament and the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs be made. All this deliverable material of twenty and a better work will be posted to a dedicated digital repository of the IPA and will be usable for study and further research. I'm going to continue in my denture with other activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u97	Thank you. Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u98	Minister, I am very pleased with the immediate response that shows how organized the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs is on this issue. You will allow me to tell you that some children in this case are luckier children and I will explain what I mean. In particular, in the Peloponnese, Roumeli, the islands of Argosaronikos, in the islands of the northern Aegean, mainly, children have been having personal experiences and personal stories since birth from the descendants of these families, who participated in the Revolution two hundred years ago. And I'll bring Dimitrisana as an example. The children of Demetsana or the children of Stemenitsa, as well as the historical capitals of the mountain Olympia - one of which is my offspring from a father, the famous Zurtsa, named after Kolokotronis "Zurcha - village, Patra - city" - as well as Andritsina, from where Anagnostopoulos was, will have even more and direct interest, but also a lot of local historical knowledge. I would add here that the Messologist children take them with the wheelchairs in this wonderful outdoor museum, which is the Garden of the Heroes in the Messolongs, or even at the shocking museum in the New Monastery in Chios. They do not need to see Delacroy, because they live from children - because babies cannot go there - the horror and the glory that has been achieved with the slaughter of Chios. So, you know what my thinking was and I'm very happy for your answer and I expect to hear the other details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Pipili. Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. You are right, my fellow Member, there are indeed areas where children have been born learning history. And I'm going to tell you something, which surprised me very much. In my visit on Sunday in the earthquake areas of Thessaly, I was informed that the school in the village of Damasi, which was destroyed and we all saw it, was a school that was again distinguished for '21, which took place between four hundred primary and secondary schools. It is possible, in order not to delay and take time from other colleagues, that the Ministry of Education, with a circular, invited the school units to plan relevant educational, visual and artistic actions, such as: reading related works, creating visual works, gathering paintings, sculptures, composition of original works, so that not only students and students know the historical aspect of the events of the Greek Revolution, but mainly understand the importance of the struggle for the conquest of freedom and goods that it contributed to a level of culture, language, religion and values. I also mention, for example, that a sixth student competition entitled '1821-2021' has been approved. From the struggle for independence in the culture of knowledge, the University of Athens in the newly established state” by the Museum of History of the University of Athens for students and secondary school students. Adopt a school poster competition and a logo entitled "Twelfth years past, resource for the future of the two-year anniversary of the Revolution of 1921" for primary and secondary school students from the Regional Directorate of Thessaly. School year '20-'21. Tester competition on the subject: "The Greek Revolution of 1921 and the Navy struggle. Hydra's contribution to his well-being, as well as to a painting contest on "My hero, heroine". Learning competition: "His contribution to the liberation of Greece and European integration" by the Company for Hellenism and Philhellenicism. The Pan-Hellenic Mathematical Competition "Hack The Map: The King's Map" has been approved by the Onassis Library. The 18th Panhellenic Literary Competition has been approved for the two-year anniversary of the Revolution of 1921 by the Association of Literary Artists of Northern Greece. It has been approved that the Panghalkidiki Mathematical Competition on "The Revolution in Halkidiki, May - November '21" by the Paghalkidiki Association "ARISTOTELI". We also have a Pan-Hellenic School Tender entitled "1821-2021: Touching the tracks of a Revolution" from the Association "ORIZONITS". Also, the General Secretariat of Religions of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs and the Special Committee for Cultural Identity of the Holy Synod of the Greek Church, in the memorandum of cooperation signed by the 7-618, on the occasion of the celebration of the completion of the 220th anniversary of the Liberation Struggle, organize for the third consecutive year a full-time Greek student award for the creation of a short film on the subject: "Twenty years since 1921", which will participate until 11 April and the B' and III' High Schools of all of Greece, individually or in groups of three under the supervision of one or one teacher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Minister. We continue with our second question with number 484/26-2-2021 in the first cycle of SYRIZA's Athens - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Nikolaos Friends to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “Who is running schools? The Ministry of Education or Racism and intolerance;’. You have the floor, Mr Philly, for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, we have moments of crisis. Our society is struggling from the expansion of the pandemic, but at the same time struggling and concerned about the inability of the government to predict and confront pandemic in all its dimensions, both in health and in economic and psychological terms. The only stable government is police rule. For every problem you have an answer: police, savage repression. The people of New Smyrna lived in the square of Nea Smyrna yesterday. We have seen them in videos despite the lies, which is part of the police occupation, the lies of the Ministry of Civil Protection, which Mr Chrysochoidis will soon be forced to swallow. As long as he remains in this position, his behaviour for democracy is dangerous in our country. The answer must, in my opinion, be reluctant. Democratic front to authoritarianism, because in the management of the pandemic in the schools there is nothing else from the government. Authentication, because it seems like you're colluding with teachers every day. Nine out of ten teachers are refusing - and rightly so - to agree on the coup you want to do with so-called alias is 'evaluation' today in schools. You insist. A month ago, there was the issue of service councils. Nine out of ten said 'no'. You insist. So you're gonna run the training against teachers? But, I repeat, the authoritarian attitude is also seen in how the problem of the education of refugees is managed in our country. Before the pandemic emerges - do not look for an alibi - you admitted in this House, in this House, that you had lost seven thousand refugees. In the summer of 2019, the SYRIZA government was allotted to structures, PPPs and reception classes, thirteen and a half thousand applicants. Since then, about seven thousand have been lost. You recognized it here, in Parliament, when you said in December 2019 that you had only set seven and a half thousand children. And to remind you that at the time we had many, large, flows of migratory flows, so you lost a lot more children. The question is today, with the general dissolution that exists because of the pandemic, what measures have you taken for the children of refugees? What measures have you taken? All we know is that you respond positively - and this is unacceptable - to requests such as the Mayor of Halkidians, to exclude children from schools, from the PPPs and the reception classes. And I'm referring to the children of refugees from Ritchona, who are excluded from school and not being taken to school. Since this time of year they have had refugee children to go to school. We have evidence - and I would ask you to respond to us in total - of four refugee structures in Epirus. Only one few children alone, on foot, go to nearby high school. All the others, hundreds of children, are imprisoned a year in camps. So, with this attitude, do you want to show that you have a democratic and civilised approach to a request, which is not a request, is it the right of children to education? And it is a right that helps their personality, but it also helps their integration into Greek society. That is why I ask you and I want answers: First, how many refugees have been registered this year in primary education and in secondary education? Secondly, how many of them are attending live courses in reception classes and how many in PPPs per level of education? Thirdly, what is the exact number of applicants who have access to telecommunications? And, fourthly, we hear from ministerial lips that you're thinking of going to ghettoize children, in confinement to children, in caging children, in isolation of children in camps and camps, and get them out of their natural space, where schools are. Will you dare? I want an explicit answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u103	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much. Mr President, I am not going to waste any time on what you have pointed out at the beginning of your position, not even on the researchers, but on what has just been done, because it would be as if I underestimated the importance of your question I wanted to focus on and I wanted to place myself on it. I would like to say to you, Mr President, that the Greek public administration is always consistent. Therefore, the educational strategy developed and implemented by the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs to ensure and access the children of refugees - migrants to education, along with their social support and strengthening social cohesion, has a priority, consistency, targeting and respecting the fundamental standards of human rights and the protection of children. In the context of the action, co-financed by the National Asylum Programme for Migration and Integration Fund for 2014-2020 for the integration of refugees up to 15 years in the educational system, the foundations for learning Greek as a second foreign language and for organising programmes, educational interventions and cultural activities have been laid, and its functionality, a budget of approximately 18 million euros, is ensured by the Refugee Refugee Reception and Education structures in the country's primary and secondary education addresses with the appropriate educational material. According to the Ministry's MY SCHOOL information system, today six thousand thirty-six asylum seekers are registered in primary education and two thousand six hundred ones in secondary school. Two thousand five hundred fifty-five, one asylum seeker in primary education and three hundred seventy-nine in secondary education. In reception classes are a thousand four hundred and fifty students in primary education and for this year's school year 2020-2021 the budget for recruitment of assistant teachers is 7.1 million euros. A total of seven thousand seven hundred sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty students are attending in primary and secondary schools. Access to telecommunications shall apply to all legislative texts and to their applicable instructions sent to all school units in the country. Therefore, the Ministry with the information system of the Pan-Hellenic School Network provides personal accounts to those asylum seekers attending distance learning courses. In fact, our Ministry, in collaboration with UNICEF, the Greek Council for Refugees, created a simplified text for parents, translated it into eleven languages and distributed it through the refugee training coordinators, explaining the procedures of this method of education and giving instructions on how to create an email from parents to monitor the course of their children. Also, in cooperation with UNICEF, there is coverage to resolve technical issues and care to translate the EGE directives on COVID -19 into the spoken languages within the hosting structures. Nevertheless, access to modern distance education has many challenges, due to the particular conditions of residence of the refugee students. Most problems are linked mainly to the lack of connectivity and technical equipment at the places of residence of the refugee students. Furthermore, for the mobility of the refugee students you are asking, Mr. Colleague, the OSH applies to the transfer of public schools pupils from the regions, as it applies to all pupils of public schools, and to the achievement of this objective, the FNPD is working closely with all the regions present. Of course, we should note here - you know - that the mobility of the refugee population and the constant changes in the number of beneficiaries are some of the most important challenges in the implementation of the travel of the refugees. Both the question of strengthening the provision of services to refugee accommodation structures and the continuous changes in the number of beneficiaries also fall within the competence of the Ministry of Migration Policy, with which the Ministry of Defence is in constant contact and cooperation. I would like to add that, taking into account the specificities of the region that is located in each hosting centre, but also where the hosting structures of the citizens of third countries throughout the territory are located, all measures against the occurrence and dispersion of the coronary cases apply. Finally, with regard to the mayor to whom you referred, I assure you - because I had personal contact with her - we were not encouraging her to what you were right to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Philly, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, I have asked for information and I have heard a bureaucratic answer. How many of the kids that the Minister mentions as numbers are going to school? How much do they go to the PPPs, how much do they go to the reception classes in the pandemic, but before the pandemic? Unfortunately, that is not the problem. In Richona, a typical example, two hundred and seventy children who were to go to the schools of Chalkida, did not go after the Mayor of Chalkidon and were locked up in Richona. Everywhere in Greece the children of refugees are locked in the camps, in the camps, without, of course, the possibility of tele-instrument, to speak seriously, Minister. That's what we want, really, not a bureaucratic answer. You rule out children from schools. You made a joint ministerial decision not to say that the children will go to camp. You leave it open. That is why 20 NGOs have protested and are calling for this joint ministerial decision to be changed. You don't change it. On the contrary, we have from ministerial lips the view that next year - listen, listen! - structures will be built in the camps for children, i.e. children's ghettos. Answer me, is it true or not? The responsibility for these issues, by the Ministry of Migration Policy, said that it is a thought that the government is pushing, because the FDA is driving there, the reality is leading today. You started with the racist history of vaccination. You took her back, as if they would have COVID -19 foreign children, foreign children and not Greek children. That's how you started. You took her back. This was the first move by the Minister, Mr. Kikilia, in the summer of 2019, to cut AMKA from foreigners, from refugees, in Greece. Now he's going to bring it back. Confession of inability to deal with issues, but also the ideology of extreme preservatives, against Greek and European legitimacy. First Protocol on the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 2, International Convention on Refugees, Article 22, International Convention on the Rights of the Child, Article 29, Charter of Fundamental Rights, Article 14, UN Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Democracy, Article 13. All this is thrown in the basket of unusables and preparing a Golgotha for the children. But you are also preparing a Golgotha for Greek society. Because many of these children will stay in Greece and need to join. And the first step in the integration of children and their families into our society is education. It is wealth for our schools to be able to go there, based on their rights, along with the Greeks. It is wealth because it enables these children to face up to the problems of incarceration, to have the opportunity to enjoy their shared lives with our own children, to see the school move towards a concept of inclusive education and, at the same time, to have the opportunity of our society from now on integrating the children who are tomorrow - the day after tomorrow will be equal to our own children in this society. You don't do none of this! I'm asking you this again. Are you gonna ghette the kids, do structures in the camps, yes or no? Don't tell me the figures that don't apply and which your pandemic - another argument - has broken it down. Answer me, yes or no about ghettoing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u107	Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u108	I'll start with this: I don't understand what statement you have made, as much as you have reverted to statements from the Ministry of Education, you found out which makes you so worried. With regard to my reply, which has been described as bureaucratic, I will tell you that I, Mr Colleague, respect parliamentary control. I, too, can prepare lines or prepare ideological forms of intervention, which may also give us some publicity. However, I would like to reply to you on the substance of the matter and, if bureaucracy and numbers make it easier for me, I will continue to do so. No one can blame us, Mr. Comrade. We cannot blame our Ministry for either failure to respond to its role, either for humiliation or indifference. And as I said before, instead of arguments that I could develop for hours and waste time, I will give you the initiatives, because I believe that our confrontation is not ideological, it is true. I answer you with numbers and you with unfounded accusations or forecasts that you do not support anywhere and you have no argument but to mention them. So I told you, in my prototype, and now I am emphatically telling you. There is no question of respect for the international treaties and human rights by our Ministry. The integration of refugee students, asylum seekers in the country's public schools is carried out by establishing reception classes for priority educational areas and refugee reception structures. They have been designated for 2020-2021 per cent of sixty primary school units, secondary education and kindergartens, through which they can operate PPPs, where asylum seekers are enrolled in accordance with existing legislation. Our Ministry, by applying the legislation as it applies, has seconded permanent teachers to the regional education directorates in order to place them as trainees of refugees in centres and hosting structures. In particular, for the school year 2020-2021 nine teachers were seconded out to be designated as training coordinators for refugees. In order to cover the vacant GPA positions resulting from refugee hosting centres and structures, after withdrawal of their secondment, there is provision for the issuing of relevant calls of interest following the recommendations of regional training directors. In addition, according to the 11-2-2021 updated recruitment table, full-time and reduced working hours of three hundred and three hundred teachers were recruited in the RAC in the reception classes of the priority training areas of a thousand five hundred teachers, in the reception and education structures of refugees according to the recruitment of Article 35 of Law 4722/20 eighteen teachers and a total of eight hundred eighteen teachers. In secondary education, recruitment in the territory took place in four phases and in the framework of two special invitations to tender, in the PPC of sixty-four teachers, in the reception classes of the four hundred nine-sixty-nine priority training areas, in the reception classes of the Sivitanidian priority areas, one and a total of five hundred thirty-four teachers in the territory, while in a three-month contract due to COVID -19 - Article 35 of Law 4722/20 - four teachers, in the reception classes of the education areas five teachers and a total of nine teachers in the territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u109	We continue with the sixth with number 510/1-3-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on "Problems in Education Structures at the Special Adventure Reservation Shop". Mr. Curublis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, today is the International Women's Day. Through the experience of a man who has experienced the consequences of the social structures of racism and exclusion, what I would like to say is that many times these anniversarys actually show inequality and discrimination in the social groups that are being mentioned. I would also like to say that, in order for women to succeed in their equivalent coexistence in social life, which is the ultimate objective of a liberated society, a word worth mentioning and talking about must be established and given that the always right Greek language has established. The word'marriage'. The woman is not going to give her her rights through administrative measures. She will conquer it while struggling and shape it to the level she wants when she demands, she will claim and she will not find a solution to her problems. Mr President, I also feel the need to make a reference to a fact that I believe in this Chamber has been sad, hurt, watch a fallen child and an instrument of order escaping from within it a river hatred...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Kurublis, I have shown tolerance on 8 March. But you have not dealt with the question you have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u112	I shall conclude, Mr President. How hated and how much brutality can there be in a man who beats a child down on the ground with three other scoundrels watching him? In my village, do you know what our parents taught us, Mr. President? "When two people fight, you get in the way to separate them." That's culture, not seeing what's done in such a way. He was the founder of this party, which I always have the courage to say is a democratic party, which was forced to say "who governs this place"?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Curublis, will you tell us about the court? You're talking two minutes and forty-five seconds already. Ask the questions of your question, so that the Minister can continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, I would be done now. Minister, since 2000 all governments have supported the creation and operation of a school, primary, high school, high school, and a department of IEK in juvenile prisons in Alonna. It is known that many times pathogen within a family, in a wider environment influences and affects the mental world of a child, which at a time of weakness can be found in an infractionality. Culture, says the great intellectuals, is judged by how a society of coordinates and organised defends rights, regardless of particularity, regardless of age. In fact, in this case we are talking about young children and prisoners. I believe that all of us together - and here I am not selling too much sensitivity - must approach this issue, because it is about our political and social culture. So I think there should be a special interest, because at the moment with the pandemic what has happened? The rest of the schools through tele-education are somehow trying to replace education. There you know very well that there is no such possibility. So we could, in cooperation with the teachers - there is a director who has worked there all these years, Mr Damianos - try to find a way, Minister, to facilitate the operation of this school. It would be a very important intervention. It is worth dedicating some of the valuable time of your activity on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u115	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. I have to respect the time. I have very limited my response to the incidents that you mentioned. I think I was clearly placed in response to Mr. Friend. As far as Women's Day is concerned, I should just like to say that it is our responsibility, if not just, primarily and above all, to see what additional steps we need to take in order to improve the already good situation, which, however, needs to be improved. I would like to point out to the honourable Member that the Commission is not prepared to accept any of the amendments proposed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. As far as your question is concerned, I do not know if anyone who hears us is aware of it. The question concerns the problems of educational structures at the Special Youth Admission Store. So I tell you, Mr President, that the care and the provision of continuous and uninterrupted education to all students without distinction - and these include young people in special detentions - was the primary and self-evident issue that the Ministry was asked to deal with at the beginning of the pandemic. The decisions of the Ministry for Lifelong Learning or Distance Learning at all levels shall always be taken after the recommendations of the public health experts of all citizens and to avoid the risk of the greatest spread of the disease. Indeed, we will agree that a significant educational work is being carried out in the special detention shops for young prisoners. The way of training is a matter of co-legislative ministries. The Ministry of Education, in cooperation with the Ministry of Citizen Protection and the General Secretariat of Criminal Policy, has provided evidence in practice that they take all measures to deal with the pandemic, without preventing the right to train young people in detention centres. In detail, I quote: at the beginning of the school year 2020-2021 educational structures are recorded at the Volos Minor Education Foundation and in twenty of the country's thirty-four detention stores. In particular, formal education structures, primary and secondary, are recorded in nine detention shops, second-time schools in thirteen detention shops, public vocational training institutes in three detention shops, and it needs to be noted that the significant number of students in detention in detention without secondary education structures, as well as students in university institutions, needs to be labelled. In particular, the way in which the educational steps of the Special Session of New Juveniles, as well as of each detention centre, are operated during the pandemic period are a combination of the joint ministerial decisions that determine the operation of the entire public IK of the Ministry and the Circulars of the General Secretariat of Criminal Policy to the directions of detention stores, adopted as part of the prevention measures by COVID -19, concern both visitors and the living of educational and religious activities. It should be noted that the training structures in detention stores are not possible to train, because for security reasons the access of detainees to online training platforms is forbidden. To avoid boredom by mentioning circulars, I tell you that, in accordance with the Special and Joint Ministerial Decisions, circulars are issued by the General Secretariat of the Anti-Criminal Policy, on the basis of which telematics issues are regulated, with full compliance with what is being said in the CSCE and, in particular, with regard to the conduct of training activities in detention stores. In dentistry, I'm going to make another special reference to the educational structures of the Youth Admission Store. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Curublis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, thank you. Madam Minister, there are problems in this area. Of course, the state's interest must be in all schools in prisons. We're not talking about it. There is a problem in building infrastructure. I would ask you in the context of an interest, although it is not your responsibility, to also speak of building infrastructure, so that the completion of buildings where children are staying can go ahead, to vacate teachers, all teachers in such schools, first and foremost. They can get in a process like this too. Also, Minister, I have to tell you that the Special Guards School is working there next door. She's also in a closed environment and works. There was no case presented to the children there, not even to the teachers. So we could find a way. I would ask you to consider it. I am sure that with your interest a way could be found to give a solution. It is of great importance and great value for every man to train, much more for these children, who really need to evade this stigma of infraction, be equipped with confidence, faith, patience and perseverance and understand that they can win life. And it's certain they can win it. I'll make a suggestion if you'd agree. You can take an initiative for a cross-party committee and go visit this school in the prisons of Aluna. I am sure that it would be an extremely important and positive influence on the psychology of these children to see the Greek state, organized, coordinate, manifest its interest. I'm asking. Think about it and it would be very much appreciated if such an effort could be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u119	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I will pass on your proposal to the Minister, and I dare say it publicly, without asking it, that it will not be negative, as far as our area of responsibility is concerned. As regards, then, the Special Admission Store, in which the 2nd 3rd Primary School of Aylona is based and runs, and the 2nd High School with Lyon classes, which are full educational units under the supervision of our Ministry and in which they are in two-thirds of all young detainees, from 13-12021 will be delivered daily courses of all high school classes and 1st and 2nd high school classes through a channel which broadcasts cable only on televisions of the prisoners. Action is being implemented in the 2nd High School and in the Lyon Classes and is constantly enriched with new lessons, and now also works for the Municipality throughout the 24 hours of the week. In addition, the students of the Third High School are attending lessons of modern distance teaching in the field of the 2nd High School, with supervision and technical support for teachers. In addition, one distance course is offered to two primary school students with diagnosed educational needs, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, distance learning to a student detained by the Greek Open University under the supervision and technical support of an instructor. The way in which the training activities of the Public Institute for Vocational Training is operated is also determined by the relevant CSRs, which relate to all the DIKs of the Ministry, our Ministry, in conjunction with the Circulars of the General Secretariat for Crime Policy. For all these reasons, the educational process at the DIECs in detention stores during the period of the prohibition of their living due to the pandemic is carried out through systematic and regular intervals of the provision of educational material by the training staff to the trainees, distributed in cooperation with the management and staff of the detention stores, depending on the possibilities of each store and the particular circumstances due to the epidemiological data. In addition, with regard to the New Jingle Special Store, in order to facilitate the educational process, including training in the context of the DIEC, it was established by the Director of Educational Structures at that TV channel booking centre, through which they are screened on a 24-hour basis and on a repeated video-scheduled course, which the trainees and trainees are attending from their cells. In addition, under the decision of the Secretary-General for Vocational Education, Training, Lifelong Learning and Youth, partial amendments were made to the IEK's Rules of Procedure to ensure their proper functioning and to protect public health during the COVID -19 pandemic. The students of the DIK Alona completed their six-month study, attending courses of modern distance education in the same area. Finally, in detention stores and in the special detention store - I have not said so, I will briefly say that - they are rapid tests on teachers, administrative staff, guard staff and prisoners with the responsibility of the EGE and the doctors. A circular has been issued by the General Secretariat of Crime Policy and an additional directive was issued to carry out rapid detection of antigens in workers, teachers and detainees at regular intervals. The General Secretariat of Lifelong Learning of our Ministry, in cooperation with the services of the Ministry of Civil Protection, also explores other alternative ways of training, so as to facilitate the training and training in its structures within detention shops. It is also planned to set up a five-member committee with representatives of the Ministry of Education and Civil Protection. The aim of this Committee, in accordance with Article 75(4) of Law No 4763/2020, is to make suggestions to facilitate the smooth and uninterrupted operation of these structures by the two co-legislative ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. We continue with the fifth question under No 3493/22-1-2021 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Halkidiki of SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance of Sunday Malama to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Is there a state-of-the-art school manager in the center of Thessaloniki who has been convicted of sexual harassment and is still in his place?" Mrs Malama, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, this is a very serious matter which we are talking about today, because we all want public education to remain outside all these shameful things that have been lighted up lately and have been made public. The sensitive area of education must be protected institutionally, so we must ensure that no one, but no one, in the public school, is involved in any act of insulting sexual freedom. It is essential to ensure that the institutions of justice and education are in place and that every case of inappropriate behaviour associated with acts of offending sexual dignity should be punished. In this context, we tabled a parliamentary question, noting that there is a case for an instructor, who also holds a place as Deputy Director at his school, who carried out acts of insulting the sexual freedom of one or more parents of schoolchildren, while the relevant file that reached us shows that his actions were repetitive and obscene. He used personal data to make it available to him, which he drew from the situations of the school in which he had access as Deputy Director. Madam Undersecretary, we really regret that we had to bring this matter to the plenary. We therefore call on you to take immediate action on the disciplinary development of the case, because it is unacceptable that these behaviours remain unpunished and people who carry out acts of sexual freedom to remain in primary school and continue to teach children. In this context, you should present us with your actions on the subject, but also explain why the relevant primary disciplinary board has not yet dealt with the case and why, in other words, the institutions for the protection of education have not yet worked, while the judiciary has acted and condemned the specific teacher for the actions attributed to it by a decision of 11 December 2019, which has been cleaned up on 1 April 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u123	Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, I would like to make it clear to you - and I start with this - that the Ministry of Education has zero tolerance to such cases of sexual abuse, harassment and insulting sexual dignity. We proved this in practice and recently on the incident of the arrest of the sixty-two-year-old teacher accused of committing sexual acts with a minor relative. For this teacher immediately by the Minister of Education, the procedure for the adoption of an act of temporary post was initiated by the Minister of Education, following the exercise of special criminal prosecution. Regarding the case of the teacher or teacher mentioned in your question, the information we have from the Eastern Thessaloniki Primary Education Department is that the 9320/11-12-2019 judgment of the Second Trimel Court of Thessaloniki concerns a conviction for another offence and not for acts of sexual harassment. Following an anonymous complaint and an order from the Ministry to investigate this case, the Department of Primary Education of Eastern Thessaloniki sought and received copies of the criminal file by the Prosecutor of Thessaloniki. A preliminary investigation was subsequently ordered in order to establish any disciplinary action and to investigate the circumstances of its completion. Then, according to the provisions of Law 3528/2007 of the Staff Code, as amended and in force today, it issued a disciplinary decision imposing a written reproof on the person or teacher. This was notified to the Heads of State or Government, including the Regional Department of Primary and Secondary Education of Central Macedonia. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u125	Mrs Malama, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the decision of 1 April 2020, which has been cleansed, concerned the use of personal data taken from school. For details, if you please, I can help you and give you the trial records. Now, the primary school for this had been informed almost two years ago. It's a long delay, I'd say. All the details I have in my office, the litigation. It follows that the convicted teacher admits that he made dozens of phone calls for sexual harassment to the parents of the school in which he taught, having caught the phone through the situations of the school, I repeat, taking advantage of his position as Deputy Director. In fact, the case-file shows that the victim had great difficulty in making its complaints to the end, because he was afraid of the day-to-day school life of his children, given that disciplinary procedures had not worked for so long. It is also clear from the case-file that other mothers of the school have experienced a similar attitude from that teacher. The sexual verbal attacks attributed to him through the elements of the case-file are really impossible to read here in the House. I'd be ashamed of it. It's full of vulgarity. We, Minister, have no intention of substituting or substituting justice, which has been decided first and secondly on the case and has condemned that teacher. However, the openness with regard to the immunity of public education remains until it is considered and the disciplinary dimension of the matter is not completed. In fact, in the midst of this whole case, this teacher seems to have accompanied school trips, which raises even greater concerns. And the fact that this teacher has operated in a pre-planned manner, having used his personal access to the personal data of mothers, aiming at their sexual harassment and then equally pre-planned used the means provided by the law to fall into the soft, let me express, that's what concerns us much more. We therefore call on you to speed up the disciplinary examination of the issue in order to shield public education from any phenomenon of sexual harassment or behaviour affecting sexual freedom and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Malama. Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u128	Madam President, I just want to say that the complaint has been found to be legally valid, there has also been a withdrawal of the inclination. In any case, we will not say any more, there is personal data. I also told you the result of disciplinary checks. But in the light of your question, which I consider very useful, I would also like to inform you that this House and those who hear us that sexual harassment and the insult of sexual dignity are a silent epidemic, which disproportionately affects the vulnerable members of our society. We sometimes consider women to be too, no matter how sad today we are when we make such an admission, and, of course, the children. I would therefore like to mention to you the specific actions of the Ministry, which aim not only at direct and proper treatment of the incidents of racial violence, sexual abuse, harassment and abuse of sexual dignity in education, but also at actions which contribute substantially to preventing and trying to eliminate similar phenomena from the educational and wider social environment. The aim and purpose of the actions of the Ministry is to provide practical support for the educational community, to provide pedagogical assistance for the normal social and psychological development of the child and the young and to ensure the promotion of health, rights and sexual dignity. Our Ministry under a law to upgrade the public school, which brought him to a vote in the House last June, is Law 4692/2020, has already introduced from September to the compulsory timetable for preschool, primary and secondary schooling - piloted for this year in two hundred eighteen schools compulsory from year to year in all the schools of the country - the Skills Labs, aiming at cultivating students life skills, mild skills and technology skills. In this context, and in particular in the 'Ezein' the theme of sexual education is taught, while in the theme 'Social Conscience and Responsibility' theme involves strengthening values such as mutual respect, respect for diversity, protection of human rights. The same law established the School Life Adviser. This is a teacher who takes responsibility for or is responsible for the specific number of classes and classes of pupils in order to intervene, guide, inform students, parents and guardians in matters of teaching management in areas which are concerned with the school unit, such as, for example, crisis management and prevention of extreme behaviour, learning difficulties, including and incorporation, pupils with particular capabilities, gradients and talents, counselling and groups of parents, while contributing to the development of relations of trust between members of the educational community. At the same time, our Ministry ensured for the educational community two thousand eight hundred positions of psychologists and social workers, more than the previous years, while a training seminar was already being carried out by the Institute of Education Policy and the newly recruited in key theoretical and practical issues of emotional and social support to members of the educational community and their families. For example, in relation to previous years this year, they are already active two thousand three hundred ninety-five psychologists and social workers, and in 2018-2019, respectively, were six hundred and fifty-eight. Similarly, the permanent psychologists and social workers in special education and education and training units increased from three hundred ninety-one, in 2019, to six hundred nine, in 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Macrie. The topical and urgent debate concerning the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs was completed. We shall now proceed to seven topical questions for the Ministry of Environment and Energy. We begin with the third with the number 486/28-2-2021 top-level question by MP B1's Northern Athens Department of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Thousands of unprotected households from the recent bad weather "MYDIA" in Attica". The Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr. Konstantinos Skrekas. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Mr. Screka, in Mandra, we had floods, dead, but the streams as they were. In the Eye we had this tragedy that we have all mentioned in our speeches in the House since 2019, waiting for something to happen with regard to the necessary interventions. Let me not remind you that a few months after the tragedy there were fire outbreaks intact. It is not just a question of establishing a common foreign and security policy, it is also a question of establishing a common foreign and security policy. We had an air phenomenon that hit New Heraklion, and even significant, in a paradoxical way, that is, on the one hand, disasters and on the other. And we note after months that the basic, necessary first interventions have not been made. And now we've had the MEDIA. The President read the content of my current question. I don't have much to say, waiting to hear you, but I want to tell you that I'll be here every month. I'll ask you every month about the promises you made a week ago to subjugate the networks and especially to PPC. I know how expensive this plan is if we catch the whole country. I know, however, that there have already been significant interventions on this in Mykonos, Oia, Santorini. And I know that, at least for Athens, Thessaloniki and some tourist regions in the country, we could start. I am afraid that every time a subject leaves time, it is forgotten, as the treatment of the causes that caused disasters in both Mandra and Matti has been forgotten. I will not let it be forgotten. I'm a member of this district, and I'll bring it every month. I hope and hope that from month to month we will see the progress of the infrastructure-related work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u131	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. It is reasonable to ask questions, Mr Colleague, and I am pleased that you are showing such interest in the region, which, of course, the citizens of Europe have been honouring you for many years with their vote and with their confidence. I am also very pleased that you will ask this question every month. I will come to answer you and I believe I will be pleased to inform you of developments on this subject. Let me just remind you of what happened in those five, six days of the 'MIDDY' trip from the North of Attica, where, unfortunately, we had drops of hundreds of trees on the TEN lines which, unfortunately, caused enormous damage and, ultimately, the cut-off of electricity in tens of thousands of houses, houses and buildings. With a great deal of interest, I would say, and a superhuman fight for a 24-hour night, the TEDO workshops have finally managed to restore these damages to the restoration of electricity. Unfortunately, no one can speak of a huge success, since there have been households who have been without electricity for several 24 hours. Only one who then walked the streets and saw the size of the disaster and the countless trees which - not branches, but trees, logs of trees - had fallen not only by the lines, but also by house yards, would understand titanic struggle, so that, even with a delay of twenty-four hours, we could fully restore electricity in all these thousands of houses, houses, which were left without electricity. And, of course, this had caused many problems in families who had young children or elderly or sick or children who are preparing for the pan-Hellenics. From that point on, however, I have to tell you that our Government before this severe weather phenomenon has come to pass, it has studied, it has been well done, it has proposed and considered the possibility of being financed by the European Union's Recovery and Resilience Fund of some two thousand kilometres of substituting mid- and low-voltage air cables. The TEDO has been instructed to prepare a prioritisation study of areas in which the air cables will have to be substituted. Over the next few weeks we have been waiting for this study to be completed so that the competitive processes can begin, in fact, to start digging and subordinating cables in the areas mentioned above.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u133	Good. Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u134	Minister, everything you have said, we will monitor it together, the House and the Ministry, through parliamentary control. By the way, reading an article by Stefanos Manos in “NEA”, I saw that when he was State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport in 1977-1979 in the Plaka area, because they subjugated PPC cables, they thought it was right and, where they dug, all the cables passed for all the services. I wonder about this: Firstly, if it is time to go with one logic - on the basis of the funding available - that, where we do so, we do so for all the services concerned and not have the phenomenon of compressing, digging, closing, digging again, closing up and so on.Huh? Is it a good chance what starts to be full? Secondly, because we have watched - I will not say astonishing, because after so many years in this Chamber we are not entitled to be surprised by any of us - the disputes of competence between those who are responsible for cutting branches or trees and those of the IEDC, in this case - the management of the electricity network in connection with the normalisation of the issues relating to cables, I wonder: Would it be good to see - as we have set a good example as the government of PASOK with the Agency for the Regulatory Plan of Athens and Thessaloniki, to establish a metropolitan body with ad hoc responsibilities - if there is a need for such a metropolitan body again for the two major urban centres in the country - Athens and Thessaloniki - which will gather the responsibilities of this level so that there is a person in charge and to the work of one who will correct or build? Both of my proposals seem very useful and very practicable. It is up to you to study them and listen to them and what you have to tell us about them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u135	Good. Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u136	Of course, I should like to say that, in cooperation with the relevant Deputy Minister, Stelios Petsas, we are already studying the legal framework governing the trimming of trees in close proximity to the cables of the TEDO. There is a specific legislative framework at the moment, which, of course, provides that at a distance of one and a half metres around the decayed cables of the low voltage, the competence for the pruning belongs to the DEDDIE and up to two and a half meters away from the TEDENE's average voltage cables again, the responsibility rests with the manager. From there on, we can expect you to table your proposal on what responsibilities you believe could be concentrated on such a metropolitan body, as you said. But I will tell you, Mr President, that in Greece neither the institutions nor the legislative framework are missing. There are, and I would say, surpluses many times. As long as someone's going to take care of them, and everything can be solved a lot easier than we thought. Here we are discussing what you are proposing for other, perhaps cases. Let me repeat that we will be here. It is a basic priority of the government, but also my own bet, to start digging and subjugating the airline cables of the DEDN in 2021. Priority will be given to those areas where we have a problem, in which, on the one hand, trees in the urban fabric, which, either in summer or winter, in similar conditions, are at risk of causing problems, either a interruption of electricity, on the other hand, or even fires, on the other. All these areas, like other tourist areas or traditional villages, where priority is needed to subordinate the cables, through this study commissioned to the DEDDIE, as I told you in my prototype, and so very quickly we will start putting machinery, putting bulldozers to dig, so that what it is, perhaps, is a relentless desire for them to start implementing it within - I repeat - 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u137	We continue with the second with number 494/1-32021 topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Scandaceous approval of the Operational Plan of the “Renovation Recycling S.A.” by the Board of Directors (G.A.)”. the Hellenic Recycling Agency (EOAN)’. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Good week to you and the Minister. I must say that one cannot start talking in plenary, without condemning the new wave of authoritarianism, but also unjustified and unjustified methods of using government ministers and MPs, which demonstrate that they ultimately have citizens' files being monitored, Mr President. But I will go to the question, because I know that they will come to plenary at another point in time. Minister, you know the subject of recycling. It has been placed on several occasions in parliamentary scrutiny and I have followed your responses. But the issue here is more specific than recycling in general. It's the scandalous license of Anti-performing Recycling. I know it's not just a matter. It's serious and it's complex. We have chosen from the beginning of this term to inform the political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment, the previous one from you, with many parliamentary questions, which I propose to you to study - and I tell you entirely, not too much - and to see the answers and the whole development and to see the consistency, if you wish, that we had. I would also ask you not to see any trade union or party. We've been trying to solve a matter here, because it's been going on a long time since 2013-2014, and we've been dealing with it. I believe that this decision of the Recycling Agency, which is subject to your control and your political responsibility, ends recycling in Greece. It's the tombstone of recycling. Together we have to decide whether to proceed with recovery procedures. In the last eighteen months there has been a delay, an inertia, but I think that as soon as you have taken over for some reason, the proceedings have been accelerated, after the reshaping, because after twenty months of government, and while there has been an adventurous board which has been interrupted, when we arrived during the election period, on the same recommendation, the Recycling Agency is now coming and approves the Operational Plan of the Recycling Recycling, while, as we have also been informed by parliamentary control, there is a well-documented negative report from the Agency. In other words, the services with a hundred pages prove that this operational plan should not be approved and that it is incomplete and that the board of directors is coming and approves it. I know that responsibility lies with the board of directors, because I was responsible for the legalisation of Law 4496. I know, however, that the administrative board which you have put in as a government has adopted something with a negative recommendation from the services. So you have the political responsibility, not the procedural responsibility. The council that you have appointed has given up all the environmental organizations in Greece. So you have a political responsibility for what you are doing with an organisation, which, on the one hand, gives an operator an operational plan approved with a hundred pages of negative recommendation and, on the other hand, creates a major environmental and political issue and renounces all environmental organisations, WWF, GREENPEACE, the Ecological Recycling Company. As we have been informed by parliamentary control in good time, I would remind you that Mr Amyras, in a debate on 8 February, has informed us that the operational plan will be judged on the same criteria and rules for all. And I say quite simply: all the other plans and systems after two, three meetings resulted in a positive recommendation in terms. Now, while we have a negative recommendation, it's approved. So they're not the same criteria for everyone. We've got two yards and two stations. And I say very quickly - Mr President, I will take a minute from my denture and guarantee that I will not use it - that it appears from the recommendation of the services that this system is not economically viable, it does not achieve recycling targets, it has very low targets, and it has not achieved what has been committed so far, it has insufficient documentation on the quantities that have actually been recycled, on the basis of the national recycling targets - from 0.8% to 4% - and a high rate of lending and a serious problem on sponsorships. So it is not just that it contradicts the documented recommendation from the services, that it is a dynamic one for recycling in Greece as, as things are changing, there will be a negative domino - and I assure you, because I have worked for many years in recycling and professionally in the past and, in the past, it will be rather - and that will close - all the functions of recycling, Mr President. So the municipalities will not get equipment, citizens will not, if you want, have recycling functions in their lives and Greece will finally have a huge fine in Europe. So, Minister, to close the first, I would ask you, firstly, if you are aware of any additional documentation, because we have learned that the only documentation is that the Council will check back what it has adopted with a negative recommendation, and that is, in practical terms, the second question, Mr Skreka, to take a political initiative for a body that is in your own political responsibility, which has violated both the laws and the rules, but also has a mortgage on the future of recycling in Greece. The political issue, please. I understand the formality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u139	Good. Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u140	First of all, I say that it has not violated the laws and rules, because if it had violated the laws and rules, then the interested parties and those who are affected would have taken refuge in justice to find their point. So, of course, everything that has been done, as you quite rightly said, is respecting the laws and the rules. But you said something else, that this decision ends recycling in Greece. I would like to ask you something, Mr Colleague, that you have passed from this ministry and that before you entered politics you have dealt very much with this area professionally and through this area you have seen and taken your professional experiences as well. Are you happy, happy, for the recycling that Greece has achieved so far? And I don't exclude any government. He's no one happy. Why isn't he happy? Because at the moment, unfortunately, we are burying 80% of the waste we produce as citizens of this country, while other countries have already reached the 40% and 50% target, which we will have to reach in 2025 and 2030 further. From there on, let me say as regards the failure, unfortunately, of the waste management system that is in place in the country in terms of recycling. We have not achieved the targets of recycling, and that is why it is the fault of it, and of course it will have to change. That is why we are working together with the systems which contribute and must help to achieve national objectives, so that we can create a framework and an environment of transparency, cooperation and commitment to the objectives so that we can finally achieve what is necessary. I think no one has any disagreement on that. From there on, let me submit to the minutes and the suggestion made by the President of the Board of Directors of the EEAN, with which he has justified this decision. The rest of it will be in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u141	Good, Minister. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister has given us the opportunity to have a more general debate. We won't have time. It's understandable. We are indeed not happy with the level of recycling, Minister. That is why I can tell you that we have proceeded with a law which is very strict in the management of the systems and gives serious competence to the Recycling Agency. But now what do we have? Your Government does not take advantage of the rigour of the law to push the systems out of the potential for recycling in Greece and give the municipalities cans and equipment. So what we have created as a reform to achieve recycling, which is our common goal, does not make use of it. What else did we do? We have created incentives for recycling so that the municipalities that have good recycling pay less fees to the management bodies. What did the Mitsotakis Government do? It does not implement the statutory regulation as from 1 January 2020 on tariff policy and incentives for recycling. What else - why do we really need to see what we have done? In Law 4555/2018 we introduced the obligation of separate collection of biowaste, i.e. the separate organic current, to have net currents and recyclables. What did Mr. Hatzidakis do before you? He went that obligation in 2022-2023. So I'm really saying that we're not going well to recycling. The problem, however, is that even some arrangements made by the previous government, which the European Union has adopted, since Greece has been in the first ten countries to make a strategic circular economy in which all of what I have said to you, are now not implemented by the Mitsotakis Government. So we're fighting for recycling, yes, Mr. Screka. We want recycling to go ahead and we do everything possible. Self-government, the CEDEFOP, the EIA, the European Union and all the productive operators have adopted the issue of the circular economy and our strategy. But we want to help you and force you to do so too. Now, however, we see that the EIA's Board of Directors is coming and, if you like, it overturns what the previous governments have done. The theme of Anti-Calculation was raised in 2013. It wasn't the SYRIZA government. I want to say everything. The first decision I see was revocation of the licence because there was a refusal to subject any control and falsification of results, in 2013-2014 to the Government of Samara - Venizelos. Then comes the SYRIZA Government, change the law, go back to the board that was tragically interrupted for our democracy - police and other strange interventions, in any case, will be controlled by justice all of this - where there is again, if you like, at the same time, the same recommendation on the non-authorisation of the system. Repeat with the Mitsotakis Government the same scene as the same law. The agency is coming again and says that the system should not be licensed because it has serious problems. And here comes the board without documentation. I will read the President's suggestion, but it is not documentary, because I have seen all the discussions that have taken place since the board of directors. He says we're going to adopt a system that doesn't get the targets. So resources are being lost from recycling. And we're going to check it out in retrospect? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. Screka, if money is lost, will we then come over to check out a system and when the opportunity of recycling is lost? And there is a very serious issue from the documentation, because there are also violations, if you like, of the operational plan. And let me tell you one more thing, Mr. Screka. I have the feeling that there was a party criterion in the adoption of the system, that is, political manoeuvring, to say so. Because I see a privileged relationship between the system. And the next question is the same about...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u143	And finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u144	And I'm finishing up. So the government - and possibly the board of directors - is going to have to solve it, so you must - use a political criterion for inequality, if you wish, in the adoption of systems and adopt a system which, while managing public resources - is social resource of recycling - does not pay off. So there is a political issue here. What was the criterion of the chairman and the board of directors and how to ensure, if you like, that common resources are managed properly?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u145	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u146	It is therefore a matter of duty for the President as well. So when I raise an issue of illegality, I say that the public interest is not served by this decision, and so there is a matter of duty. This is my view of the law and the law, Mr. Screka, to be clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u147	Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u148	Allow me to say, Mr President, that on this administrative board, which has approved by a vast majority the operation of this system - for which I would not like to go into detail, once the competence of the Greek Recycling Agency is essentially and specifically to approve its operation and then to monitor whether the objectives are met - the representative of the CED have also voted positively. As you know, the CEDEFOP is largely involved - if I remember well - in the other packaging recycling system. They also agreed and approved the operational plan of this recycling and packaging management system. From there on, I think we agree on what we need to do. We want transparency, we want systems that have targets that match national objectives. Why having systems that present us with operational plans with objectives much less than those we, as a country, want to achieve, I do not think that serves the public interest, because these public resources are also ultimately managed and money by Greek consumers. So what do we want to achieve? And you'll see we'll do it. We want to achieve the recycling targets. We finally want to implement this three-dimensional 'Reduce, Reuse, Recycle'. We, Mr Colleague, are going in the next few weeks to present to the Greek Parliament a bill on recycling, where we see from zero all the critical issues that we believe have gone back to recycling and waste management in the country. In fact, we invite you to come and sit together and chat, work together to get what's best for Greek society. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] This thing can't go any further. I think we all understand that. The problem with waste management in the large urban centres, the problem we have in Attica, the problem that exists in other cities, the problem that exists in the tourist islands, we have seen, come and returns year after year. Finally, this thing must stop! So I don't think the way to stop is that some people are being smuggled and planning in a private way. We want transparency here, we want cooperation and we want the systems to work so that we can achieve national objectives. And that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u149	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. And we continue with the next question. It is the first under number 3663/462/28-1-2021 to ask and request documents of the circle of petitions and questions by SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The questions remain: How is the public interest in the supply of equipment to be sorted at the source of the Special Inter-State Association of Attica (EDN)?" Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are continuing again with an issue that is absolutely related to recycling and is linked to those involved in the previous debate. You closed the previous question with a conclusion that you will do everything you can in the public interest and in the social interest of recycling and not for those who are guided by private terms and private interests in managing recycling. But let me tell you that in the question about what you are doing for the reward, you have not finally answered what you will do for the public interest. Let us now see if you answer that, which you have made a general statement on public interest, but you will allow a scandalous licence for compensation recycling. Now let's go see a scandalous competition of the Special Inter-State Association, the ECDNA, in Attica, which obviously involves both the Attica Region and Mr. Patoulis and the self-government. This is a question which has been tabled two - three times. We started in October. We submitted it again in January. Not answered in writing once. He didn't answer in writing twice. We submitted it again. This is why we have this report, Mr President. We have a competition for 112 million waste equipment, which can be optional, that is to say it can be double on course. The first question is: What study does it show up and how can there be reason in Greece today to open an invitation to tender to get an equipment of 110 million and say that, because it does not know if it needs 110 million, can it make it 220 million at the end? So there's a subject with which study. Also, on what background is all this? So, he's totally in the leg? However, it is now coming from the discussion process that the Ministry and the institutions - and that is what I see now to you - are concerned with you - and the body says that the Attica Regional Waste Management Plan has deficits and is amended, but the supply is made by the regional plan. Here you can see how he's feasting and contradicting. There is a plan to be incomplete, but to invoke it in a contract notice, a contract which has the terrible precariousness to double in the course of the course, so no one knows what natural object is being procured? The second question is: Since the proclamation of this waste equipment is done for the municipalities, we ask: What do the municipalities need? Did the municipalities propose the equipment? Because we know that after the competition took place, Mr President, it was then called upon for the municipalities to sign a programme contract that they would receive the equipment, which they did not know who it was to be, and they did not know who it would be either, but they called it in a reasonable manner'seeing and doing'. Yeah, but that's not how recycling goes. The first issue, therefore, to close the first cycle, is that. And I'm going to put something else in my second speech, since I have a second speech. And we are very simply asking the Ministry responsible for waste management and recycling: will you allow such procedures to continue in the foot by seeing and doing, with plans that another characterizes them incomplete, but uses them from the back door, but does not ask the municipalities, but makes them sign a contract to receive it, without knowing their needs and with an equipment that is 'accordion', like the measures on COVID, which it blinks, as it suits him? But, here's the city's money, it's about 200 million, after all. So, have you intervened in both the Recycling Organisation and the EDNA, Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u151	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u152	I am going to be a pluralist in the answers, because there are many questions raised by the honourable Member. First of all, let me say that when we talk about open international competitions, you understand that they are governed by Greek and European legislation. So I do not think it is a question of whether these competitions are in a good and fair way and whether the result is in the public interest, national and European. Because we need to know that many of this money used, exploited, comes from European taxpayers. Also, following on from what I have said, to say that, because this money comes from European sources of funding, you understand that the eligibility of the actions that we are planning and including, to see if they can be financed through European funds, is controlled by the European Union itself. Therefore, in reply specifically to your questions, firstly, I would like to say that according to the document from 9-2-2021 of the Special Inter-State Body of Attica, this equipment does not concern the obligations of the TENs, the alternative management systems. The second question you have tabled is not about the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, but about the Ministry of the Interior, so you will have to submit it to the relevant Minister. Thirdly, the Ministry of Energy and the Environment is not interfering with the way local government agencies work together and with the way VETS operate. It is the responsibility of the NSAs to monitor this and, in accordance with the document of the NCA, all the requirements of the Local Government Organisations of Attica have been taken into account. The selection of methods for the award of tenders is a selection of the ENTSO, as a contracting authority. As you remember very well, when you also served as Minister of the Environment, you know very well what you could and could not do as Minister. It is therefore not the choice of methods of calling for the choice of the relevant Minister for the Environment and Energy. Also, as I said, the Ministry of the Environment and Energy does not engage in the way in which the LGBT and LGBT collaborate with each other. As far as the sixth, seventh and eighth questions are concerned, I shall answer my second question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u153	Good, Minister. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. There have been several issues. Firstly, I think, Mr Minister, that you said, on the basis of a statement by the auction operator, that recycling equipment is not included in the equipment. It's in the Minutes, Minister. Mr President, allow me to table in the Minutes, firstly, the technical specifications, secondly, the technical description and the technical report, where it is demonstrated, Minister, that what is being called is recycling equipment. It is clear here, Mr President, that the systems we have been discussing in the previous question - and the Anti-Fraud Recycling, Mr Minister - are obliged, after you have given them permission now, to hand over the multicentres, so-called 'houses' to the municipalities. And there comes a competition from Mr Patoulis and Mr Hiotakis, who is Vice-President of the EDNA, for some 200 million, to get to the 'Category 5' section - a very large section of the budget, but 30% -40% of what I said in general - the same equipment that the system is obliged to give the municipalities? Isn't that a matter of public interest and public funds? You haven't been well informed. The body says it's not a recycling project, but I'm tabling the tender minutes, which says they're recycling equipment. Second matter. You said before that that the European Union controls resources and where they go, the legality of acts might be. Question: Do you know if this competition has joined the NSRF? Do you want to announce it in the House too? Because the municipalities don't know that. I do have statements from mayor, such as the Mayor of Varis - Vouliagmeni - it is not SYRIZA - who complains, because this charm will go to the back of his citizens. Do you want to tell us in your dentistry if this contest has entered the NSRC and if you have created such a measure by the final team? And to tell us what work, Mr President, they cut the resources to give it to this photographic process, which came out without specifications,'seeing and doing what we are going to buy'. I shall put these in the Minutes, Mr President. I would like you to tell me, Minister, also which municipalities have finally agreed to sign a programme contract. Because they are coming back, without knowing what is going to be taken by the institution, and while another is obliged to deliver it, and while funding has not been guaranteed, they are committed to something that they do not know if they are using it, while the institution himself says that the project will be reviewed by the municipality and the region. It is wrong to review the region, but 'we see and do'. You've said all this. There are, therefore, serious issues which appear to be unresponsive to the natural object, to finance, for the necessity of this work to the municipalities. Obviously, Minister, when an Attica body has a competition of 110 million on two - it can go up to 200 million - and it says the Ministry of Environment and Energy that has the Recycling Agency and the General Secretariat of Waste that 'I do not care about it, it is the Ministry of Interior' and, at the same time, it shows that a piece of equipment in this category, namely the recycling multi-centres, is an obligation for recycling systems that you control and have photographic features, and so what else must be said, to say that we have a huge scandal once again in recycling? Apart from the authorization, Mr President, of the previous question, this also happens to a supply in Athens. But that, Minister, is your responsibility, it is not someone else's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u155	Good. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u156	Because I know very well and you know very well what I said, I said that anything that will ultimately be financed by European sources will go through the European Commission's crisis. There is therefore no way to do something that is not provided for under European regulations. I would also like to put forward the document requested by the honourable Member. [[At this point Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, Minister for the Environment and Energy, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The search for the source of funding, of course, is a matter for the contracting authority and, since these costs, these investments are eligible to be financed through European funds, they will of course be financed if they are finally integrated into similar programmes of the NRP. From there on, you also asked an eighth question, which says: "If EDNA clearly states that the auctioned equipment does not concern recycling materials, but recyclable materials whose screening at source is not funded, what kinds of materials are specifically mentioned in order to be collected from the proposed equipment?" Here, then, according to the National Waste Management Plan, published in the Government Journal on 29-9-2020, under number A185, on page 9823, the materials that may be recycled amount to about 46% of urban waste. I have to tell you that packaging materials, which are the responsibility of alternative management systems, are about 32% of recyclable materials. Therefore, for the collection of the rest, it is possible to supply equipment and, of course, I repeat that the choice of equipment is the responsibility of the LNG. From there on, what you mentioned and asked me about what municipalities or local authorities are doing, I would ask you very much to address the question to the relevant Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u157	We move on to the third debate under number 1658/11-11-2020 on the question of the cycle of petitions and questions by SYRIZA's MP II Thessaloniki - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Inaction and indifference for the Sheikh So from the state and the municipalities involved with it". Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I think we will come back to recycling many times. I should like to raise an issue that also has local interest in Thessaloniki, but it also concerns forestry policy issues. We are talking here a lot of times about environmental issues here, and I see that many times on the part of the government there are very big words - to say the truth - and in communications - if you want to see events, great declarations, but they do not, in fact, go any further on environmental projects. The theme of Sheikh Sue is an example of how one can make big announcements, but not manage anything after that, and I would say to make fun of it, because I think there is a hypocritical attitude to environmental matters on the part of the government. Here, then, we had a difficult problem - and we had dealt with it - the issue of the insect bark in Shahih Sue. There was a serious problem with the viability of Sheich Sue. It is therefore coming from the previous government to initiate a procedure for intervention and financing to make logging for the bark insect. On the way, in September 2019, Mr. Hadjidakis comes to Shahikou along with mayors - he was just taking over, you were making the big blows and saying the big words, the fakes at the time - and he announces 500,000 euros to fight the bark insect, saying that "we will be next to the woods and watch it" and, at the same time, on the same days, the exhibition announced that the Flyover of Regional will be built and the resurrected character of Shahik Soo will be lifted. So much hypocrisy in the same days! "We will save the forest, we will support it, we will finance it, but we will build a motorway - private, PPP - and we will bury seventy acres from the city's forest!" But we're going back to Shahih Sue. So we asked questions, because we think that money should be given for forestry studies and projects. We tabled a question on 13-7-2020 - from what I see - saying: Why are they delaying, since Mr Hatzidakis, your ministry, has financed the removal of all these prunings? Why is all this still in the woods and there is a danger to fire protection, but also to citizens? Watch out now. There is a document from the Ministry of Interior in July 2020, which says that we also finance municipalities to help through the "PHILDIMOS" programme, and there is the supply of machinery. The decentralised administration comes in, says that "we are starting to make programming contracts with the municipalities to help clean up the forest, because forest services are under-represented". But that doesn't go any further. And that's why we come and ask the Ministry that made the announcement, and we say: You announced funding. Contracts with the municipalities were not made, the pruning remains in there, we are at risk and in the face of the new anti-nuclear period. So the questions are very simple: how much money was eventually given by all that Mr Hatzidakis had announced? Is the plan of forest regeneration going ahead? Because even since my term of office we had spoken of a forest study there, so that we could have the necessary flood protection and reafforestation. So how is this work now evolving, since there is - and we may have to solve it together, Minister - an inertia or negligence or denial of the municipalities to cooperate on what decentralised is calling on them? Maybe we'll see that together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u159	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I would first of all like to mention to the Greek Parliament an emblematic and visionary work, which, having discussed with the institutions, is all right to be financed by the European Union's Recovery and Resilience Fund, the RRF, Recovery and Resilience Facility, which is about reafforestation of over two hundred thousand hectares, particularly in perimeter areas, and not only so that we can help the perimeter environment, but also improve the lives of residents living in these areas. It is a project of a total budget of 200m euros, with the goal of completing it in 2025. It can, of course, be extended until the end of 2026, which you know very well that it is the end date to absorb exactly the money that will come from the European Recovery Fund. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] So, with this act, we prove - and the Prime Minister himself - the political will indeed to move on to broad reafforestations, and I repeat, in circumstantial - first and foremost - areas that so much need it. And, of course, we have asked the forest office and the directorates of the decentralised administrations of our country to table proposals to us that they believe should be included in this very ambitious reafforestation programme, the largest that has ever taken place in Greece. Let me tell you here and let you know that the money given for reafforestation every year is just a few million. So you understand the important section we make. From there on, let me tell you about your question that initially, as you know, we distributed a sum of EUR 500,000, just as it had been announced - because it is what you are asking - which was planned in 2019. Finally, this managed to be exploited by the competent authorities in 2020 and payments have been completed, as has also been approved by an additional amount of EUR 700,000 through a budget of EUR 1,900,000, which, by decision of July 2020 by the Ministry of Finance and the special reserve, was given to the Directorate-General for Forestry, so that it could be used for the actions mentioned above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u162	Minister, because the last thing you said is very critical - and this is why parliamentary control is being carried out - I have a document from November 17, 2020 - you have not yet been at the Ministry, but it is obviously about you - that the Directorate-General for Forests and Rural Affairs, the Thessaloniki Forestry, refers to the request for the EUR 700,000. Did you tell us that it was approved before the application? Did you say July? Please, because this is important to the city too, if you want to clarify it. I, too, know that the sum of 500,000 has been completed, that the lease is over and that the project will be completed. Because today in Shahik - You have cut torsoes and many prunings and, indeed, at a time when the world is trying to have an escape during the hours allowed. The perimeter forest is very close to the city, you all know it. There is a danger for hiking and sports and for the upcoming, if you like, anti-nuclear period, because we are entering a difficult season of temperatures in a month. So, since the knowledge we have is that there is still funding for the additional application made by the forestry services, I would ask you to see it if it has been approved - I knew it at the request level - because at least it tells your own document that has been given to us by parliamentary control, otherwise the problem with the residues will not be dealt with effectively. And here I must note what I said in my prototype, that although decentralized has asked the municipalities to cooperate in order to get the remains from the inside, and even though the Ministry of Interior has replied to us in writing that it has provided funding and equipment, it has not been done, Minister. It will be good, when your government makes an announcement, to follow it later, because I finally come to tell you that either you were not interested or you must now do something to coordinate them. Let us at least clarify your intentions. But here, let me tell you one more thing. You referred to the issue of the reafforestation programme. Because there are serious issues and I think that it is of interest to the House, I would suggest that you bring the issue of the reafforestation programme to the Committee on Production and Trade. There are serious scientific, development and environmental issues. I won't say it here, but you mentioned it. So keep our request, of SYRIZA, to come either all the actions of the Ministry of Environment and the Recovery Fund or specifically of the corresponding scientists of forest science, to look at the issue of reforestation. Because the information tells us that, first, the hires of five hundred 50 foresters, which were scheduled and approved by the SYRIZA government, were frozen. If, then, we love forest strategy and forests, here it is, prove it. Secondly, your government has not been proclaimed a joint fire protection programme, with five and a half thousand workers, because it was frozen by your government, and you were committed to something different. Thirdly, the forestry strategy does not go any further, which was the first time that our country had a forest strategy, so we do not have the forest fire prevention strategy. So, Mr. Screka, even the reafforestations, if you want to start. I mentioned three pillars of forestry policy, which your government does not implement. Not to mention the forest map album, because I know that the President will not allow me and will be right. We're not going to open any more issues. But here, I must tell you, on the other hand, that the services of the Forestry of Thessaloniki are still under-represented. The remains, the trimmings and the logs are inside. Leases have been completed by 31 December 2020 and there is a question for the new loggings of 2021. Let us solve at least a local issue. Please do very much for the clarifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u163	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u164	Let's start with the last one. First of all, I remember how the five thousand recruits took place. They were supposed to serve the forest services. Do you remember how it happened and what these people did? When did they get hired? I'll remind you. It was up to the end of the summer when five thousand people who had neither equipment nor training nor even an office to sit in the shops. I do not think this is an organised forestry policy, so that we do not forget what has happened in the past few years. But it doesn't matter. From now on, indeed, we need to strengthen forests and services. Unfortunately, we are experiencing an unprecedented, as you know, health crisis with the pandemic, with COVID -19, where everything has become a little more difficult. However, despite all these difficulties, we are doing much more than what has been done in previous years. We have asked from autumn 2020 for the strengthening of forestry services, and we are planning this in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour. Let us say that it has been discussed and planned to implement a specific programme for the recruitment of unemployed by the OAS for twelve months. I should also like to say that very briefly, and in cooperation with the Directorate-General for Forestry of the Ministry for the Environment and Energy with the relevant agency of the Ministry of Labour, the necessary administrative measures will be adopted to implement this OAS programme immediately. This programme will involve, firstly, the employment of seven hundred unemployed, namely, three hundred and fifty university education, which we need and which we need, of geotechnics and forests, two hundred technological training for forests and one hundred and fifty secondary education in administrative capacity. I would also like to inform you that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, all the necessary steps are being taken to recruit three hundred permanent officials of forests. From there on what you asked before, for the EUR 700,000, the reality is that, as you know very well, the financial margins, especially in 2020 and after the coming of this pandemic, the world's newly known level, have been limited. And as you can see, special priority has been given to all those who need to be financially supported, so that we do not leave them behind in society by professionals, family workers, households and businesses, so that the next day, when this pandemic ends, everyone can be able to open up, not to shut down - if possible - and not to lose - and, of course, to lose - their work. However, even though there was no room for budget, because of this restrictive policy we need to follow in order to be able to give strong support to those who need it today, as I said, from the regular budget of the decentralised administrations and directly from the reserve of the ordinary budget, this exceptional fund, to say so, EUR 1.9 million was allocated to the Directorate-General. You are right to say that this has happened before the request for EUR 700,000, but EUR 1.9 million covers EUR 700,000. Of course, the Directorate-General can ask for whatever money it wants. But in the end, with the money we have given, we can cover that amount. You also mentioned something about Flyover, the new Regional Road that will decompress Thessaloniki. You know very well that I studied many years there and lived there and friends and wifes are from northern Greece and it's like it's my place in Thessaloniki. Do you think this road, which will decompress the terrifying traffic problem of Thessaloniki, doesn't it have to be? Because, if you don't have to, you can boldly stand up and say that no, do not build what I remember from those years as a new regional road, because there was a regional road. Of course, that would be very interesting to hear from your own lips. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Minister. We move to the fifth under number 490/1-32021 a top-level question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Evia: Eight new wind parks in protected areas. Without end the diversion from European legislation, despite convictions.' Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, let me say that we are still waiting to announce whether you will ask for the resignation of the board of directors of the EEAN, because in the previous time you have simply avoided answering the point. Now let's go talk to Evia a little. In Evia we can't really understand what you're doing. As soon as we have been condemned by the European Commission on 17 December for the non-protection of NATURA regions, at the same time we are at the final stage of reintroduction of NATURA, because you do not respect environmental licensing and due consideration, and you come and approve eight new wind parks in Evia? It's incomprehensible! Go and place in the most untouched areas in Dirfi, Kolylaea, Xerovouni, Montenegro, Darkness, Evia Olympus and the plateaus, which are located over hundreds of wind turbines, a hundred four wind turbines in an area, on an island that already has six hundred. We want to figure out what you're doing. First of all, have you ever assessed even the minimum limitation of the AIA spatial planning for capacity carrying per municipality? Have you examined her? Have you considered whether it is in breach of those areas you approve? Tell us your data and methodology - if you have done so - and where these facts are available, because otherwise you are even infringing the RES's spatial planning. Let me remind you that companies based on municipal declarations have asked for the capacity to increase by 60%. The same companies that now make the placement. Why do they ask while they're fit now comfortably? Explain to us. We have proposed how we should move. First we protect what's left of us, so we don't put wind in the protected and untouched areas. Let's go to save, we're doing a "I'm saving on the house" program that catches all the households and we're putting in the "I'm saving" and photovoltaics on the roofs, reaching out, as the European Commission says, to produce more than 30% of the energy we consume from PVs on the roofs and roofs. This, yes, contributes to tackling climate change without destroying our natural environment. You, unfortunately, are turning around.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u168	Mr Colleague, I really can't understand you at all. Do you want to shut down tobacco-smoking fugitives and burning lignite or coal or oil to produce electricity? You need to answer, because if you want to shut down these wigs, we have to find another way to produce energy. Or do you think that, even if we use and upgrade our homes energy, they will stop consuming energy, will we have zero energy consumption? Does your clothes need energy or do they need not? What will this energy be produced from? The night that photovoltaics can't produce energy, why doesn't it have sun, what are we going to do? Are you against wind parks? Are you against exploiting the wind of our country's wind to produce renewable clean electricity? Yes or no? Answer me. Is there any part of the world that does not exploit windpower? Do you know that, according to the estimates, after 2040 the vast majority of electricity generation will come from wind turbines and make use of the wind potential of our planet? So should wind turbines of course be built with some design and some conditions? Yes or no? To agree on the basics, because, if we cannot agree on the basics, then there is no reason to answer questions which are self-evidently answered by the legislation that we already have. All the regions that are sensitive to our country's visionary legislation of previous governments are protected through environmental protection procedures, either as NATURA areas or as other areas, Ramsar, etc., other 'lodges' - so to speak - protection which exist in the application of European legislation. And you know that Greece is very close to the target, almost caught the target, has achieved the target of 2030, which is included within Green Deal for protected areas. That's the reality. Of course we care where they're going to be built. Of course it will have to be done with a plan. Of course we must move on quickly, and that is our objective in the new special landfill for the RES and, of course, the capacity to bear is being examined. The RAE, before giving any permission, examines the ability to carry. The decision to approve environmental conditions shall include means and study of the capacity to carry. And somewhere they have to be built, if we want to close the figars that cause climate change and not just in our country and elsewhere. If you agree, go out and say: Yes, we agree to make use of our country's wind potential. If you do not agree, I would ask you to say that we do not want a single wind turbine in the country, because somewhere, even one should be built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u169	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u170	Minister, will you talk to us about the closure of incinerators, which you are about to open up in the whole of Greece to burn waste, plastics, or oil? Will you say so, where do you want to use Ptolemais 5 and Megalopolis 4 to burn waste? Are you really interested in climate change? I'll try to explain it to you as simple as I can. The ecological crisis is about the destruction of nature. I don't know if you understand. The first thing we do is not touch those few that have left us untouched. Do you understand? Do you realize that we have been condemned for the non-protection of NATURA areas? And you tell me about the targets? Do you realize that we are in the process, at the last stage, of condemning and appealing the European Union to the court and the Commission against us for the placement of winds in the NATURA regions? With all the damage we've done, we produce 13% of the energy. I tell you about a way that the European Commission is telling him, with which we can produce more than 32% of the energy we consume on rooftops, and you tell me what we are going to do tonight? We are talking about energy which is mainly consumed locally in buildings, so it does not overload the networks, so it does not create all these problems. And you're asking me if we're in favour of the winds? Germany started by pouring windy...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u171	Are you in favour or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u172	I'll tell you. I believe that at the moment we can stop installing any wind turbines. It's over with everything he's been in. Even those who have entered protected areas must be reviewed by zero. But as far as climate change is concerned, I propose something you can do with the Recovery Fund tomorrow, to do an economic boom, because "I save by house" means huge employment, since we are going to cover photovoltaics on the roof from home to house. I am talking about a way in which we can produce more than 30% of our energy consumption, lead globally in the fight for climate change, and you are asking me if I want winds in our virgin mountains. I have no problem with there being an wind farm in some place, on some island, which will be chosen by the residents who will be involved in the self-sufficiency of the island and which will be done through participatory procedures, and the revenue will go to the inhabitants if they decide. I don't have a problem with that, but what you guys do has nothing to do with it. Do you know why you don't want the rooftop photovoltaics? Because the revenues would go to the households, they would complete their income, which collapses. You want to give the money, from the Recovery Fund or wherever else, again to the five EIA constructions. You don't care about climate change, Minister. The interests are served.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u174	I finally didn't understand. You want wind turbines on a small island, since people want to, but you don't want any wind turbines and those that bother in protected areas. When you decide what you want, please tell us. I'll tell you what we're thinking about doing and what we've planned. Of course we are the government that we want and we are promoting the democratisation of energy, and that is not what we are saying, but we will also prove it in the next period, which will take the framework for domestic photovoltaics, the framework which will govern the installation and development of home photovoltaics on roofs. And it will be such a framework that will enable too many of our fellow citizens to establish such a small photovoltaic. And, of course, we also need to develop our networks, because decentralised production of energy without new, smart networks, modernized and upgraded will never happen. And that's what we put into the Recovery Fund, not what you said. We have put on upgrading the country's energy networks, so that we can achieve greater penetration from renewable energy sources, even decentralised and from roofs. And of course this will be done with a plan and a plan, because there too can be an abortion, as you can see. You understand what I mean, if anarchistically such photovoltaics are started and installed, which do not comply with specific rules. Of course, we are looking, I repeat, at the ability of both the programme and the project, what you have said before and for which you are asking within the limits of the Kymi-Aliveio Municipality. It does not result in overcoming the capacity for the municipal units of Karystos, Marble, Styron, Aylon, Distroys, Constituents, Kymis and Taminons. Moreover, in the Municipalities of Kafere there is an increase in the coverage rate, in agreement with the Municipal Council, in accordance with Article 7 of the Special Spatial Planning and Sustainable Development for Renewable Energy. I would therefore like to tell you that, in accordance with the existing institutional framework, as I have told you, the RAE is granting a producer's certificate, provided that specific criteria, such as that there is no overrun of the capacity of the ATTs, and that they are not in areas of exclusion for the installation of renewable energy sources in accordance with the Special Spatial Planning and Sustainable Development, as is the case. So we want an integrated and holistic approach to the problem, and that is how it can be done, because today we really need to see how we can achieve what is a vision and a decision of the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis himself, that we can get from many other Western European countries to carbonize electricity production in our country and lower, reduce the environmental footprint of our economy. And that's what you have to admit, because this is being assessed compared to what other countries do and what Greece does. And Greece, Mr President, firstly - you like it, you don't like it - in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u175	Minister, you will allow me to say something about the issue that you have just discussed. We are the only country that has so large wind farms and so many wind turbines. All over Europe, there is no such thing and I think you should rethink it, because it is all in areas of particular natural beauty, apart from protected ones. We move on to the fifth under No 491/1-32021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Navplio - Intensive dysosmia from the uncontrolled pollution of the Nea Kion's wetland". The Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr. Konstantinos Skrekas. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I would simply remind you of the previous question that GDP does not mention anything and no GDP does mention it. Okay, I understand you're a new minister. You will be briefed slowly on these issues. Nafplio was found in front of an incomprehensible situation. Residents had to get up from their homes for two to three days, as disosmia, from an in practice environmental disaster, was huge. It was an environmental disaster, because it hit the wetland of New Century, a very important wetland and as an intermediate migration station of species, but also of local importance, anyway. The disaster is probably the leak of unprocessed sewage from the biological purification plant. We have repeatedly seen such incidents happening, quite simply because this is the period when the juiceries need to process their outputs. That is not the case, and that is how we finally see them going to the biological purification plant, which is unfortunately escalating next to the wetland of New Cyo and, finally, the station cannot cope with the load. We're talking about seven thousand nine hundred CODs. They are oxygen needs for those who know the net, which is related to the biological load, when the limit is one thousand five hundred. It's just dismantling the biological. I would like you to explain to us: How many environmental infringements have been detected in recent years by the competent authorities in relation to the waste from juiceries and the operation of biological cleansing. If, in your opinion and the opinion of the services, this biological is working properly. If there are illegal discharges of waste juices to him or directly to the wetland of New Cyrus. What measures do you undertake to take to resolve the matter immediately. Also, once the Directorate-General for Water itself tells us that dozens of water treatment facilities in the country do not comply and do not receive a sufficient number of measurements required by the Water Framework Directive, what do you undertake to do to resolve this issue? What do you commit, Minister, to do so that the people of Nafplio will not have to leave their town again? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u178	Madam President, on what you said, I would like to say that the feeling may be that we have many wind turbines, but the reality is that in Denmark the contribution of wind power to the mix of electricity reaches 44%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u179	I want you to tell me if there is any area that has two and three thousand wind turbines, like in the Agragras, for example. I'll ask you a question. But now, don't worry about it. Continue with the question of the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u180	In Agragra, because I come from a nearby county, there are not two thousand wind turbines. Of course, there is no area with two thousand wind turbines in Greece. On the outside, of course, there are. I repeat, however, that this is not a matter that needs party controversy, because we all agree that we should make use of windpower in a way, of course, that will not destroy the environment. So we all agree on this, we just have to get rules in. The rules have been put in place and these rules should still be reviewed and updated through the new specific spatial framework, which we are preparing to submit. On the other hand, for the question asked by my dear colleague, concerning the strong misosmia, as the title says, "from the uncontrolled pollution of the New Cyprus wetland in Nafplio", I would like to say to you, Mr President, that the municipalities, the JHA, the municipal water companies, the water and sewerage companies are really responsible for the good condition and operation of the urban wastewater treatment plants, as well as the sewerage networks, as well as for the restoration of damage and malfunctions. Let me say that the managing bodies of waste water treatment plants, the EELs, as we say, define: first, the conditions and conditions for the reception of municipal waste water, wastewater and waste water in general. Secondly, they place quantitative and qualitative restrictions on the waste water treatment that can be accepted by each waste water treatment plant. Let's say that the SEL Argos, Mycenas and Nafplies are in the location of Kioska of the regional unit of Argola. The decision approving the environmental conditions, GDP, has been amended and renewed by the Ministry of Environment and Energy’s decision of 17-12-2020 under number 99930/6510. Conditions have been laid down to ensure the protection of the natural and anthropogenic environment. As an example, I would like to mention the obligation of the operator of the sewage treatment plant: First, to submit within six months of the adoption of the last decision documentation on the capacity to process, the capacity to carry out the installation. Secondly, to cooperate continuously with the productive units of the area, which are interconnected in the sewer network, and to monitor the quality of the incoming waste water. Third, if the limit values for damage, failure or occurrence of an emergency are exceeded, the installation operator shall be required to take the necessary steps to remedy or limit the problem immediately. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, you have responded very generally, and you did not answer the question at all. I know it's very convenient to answer dentology, because I can't answer it if I don't have a tritology. I will repeat the questions so that they do not forget: How many environmental infringements have been detected in recent years by the competent authorities in relation to the waste of juiceries and the operation of biological cleansing? If it operates on the basis of the services of the Ministry of Energy and the Environment, the RIS, the biological station. If there are illegal outflows, if there have been any traces of juice waste to or directly to the wetland of New Cyrus. What measures will you take for this dramatic situation that has been created, both for the environment and for the city of Nafplio? Finally, what is finally done with the management of biological cleansing, which seems to be not taking steps to comply with the sufficient number of measurements and controls laid down by the Water Framework Directive? What are you going to do to solve this particular problem? I say this because we learn that DYAR announced the complaint of four Argolida juicery contracts concerning the disposal of waste water in biological cleansing. It now seems that these bodies are running uncontrolled, as it is obvious that if you throw juice water on the biological cleansing, he will go out of service, saturated and cast unprocessed waste water. Looks like your department's control mechanisms aren't doing their job. And they don't do their job, because they're completely understaffed, Minister. After this crisis, I would expect you to come and tell us what recruitment you have done to environmental inspectors, how you will strengthen these mechanisms, and of course what sanctions will be for those who have led to this environmental crime. I hope you're much clearer in your dentistry. As far as Denmark is concerned, Minister, let us not forget that Denmark has announced that it is stopping the extraction of hydrocarbons and is not going through any new, unlike this government. You set up fugitives, prepare oil and gas mining everywhere in Greece. And they are the companies that are leaving, not you who are changing their minds because of climate change. REPSOL has left Ioannina. We expect to see if the mining project manager will leave Epirus and Ionian. So let's stick to what we can be consistent. Tell me about the recruitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u184	In general, I will tell you that taking advantage of the country's mineral wealth in terms of sustainability and sustainability is something that does not find us against. Unless you want to close the marbles, close all the mines that are valuable to Greek metal society, which are then exploited and provide jobs and revenues both in local communities and in the national economy. The Parthenon, Mr. Comrade, would not have happened if the ancients were governed by your dogmatic logic. Generally, of course we want to protect the environment. Who doesn't want to? In particular, we prove it through our actions. I say to you: we are much more ambitious and much more 'aggressive' - in introductory terms - to close the polluting fugitives and prove it. But, in order to do this, this must be replaced by something else, sustainable, sustainable, environmentally friendly. I am referring, of course, to the lignite plants in PPC, which have already taken the road to closure. You want, you don't want, this government did it. You like it, you don't like it. I understand that this deprives you of your job, which is to criticize, because the government is moving forward ahead of you. But what should we do? We'll do what you need and you'll find something else to do and something else to judge. From that point on, for Denmark, I told you 43% -44% of its electricity production comes from wind farms, wind turbines: onshore, offshore, 44% wind turbines. In particular, for the identified infringements, the competent department in the Peloponnese Region, which carries out the checks and imposes penalties on both the Argentine-Naply industrial and the waste water treatment plants, has carried out seven checks, at the same time seven sanctions in the industries, while in the sewage treatment plant four checks it has carried out - it may have done more, I do not know, not say any inaccuracy - came about and imposed sanctions accordingly. I would also like to say that, in general terms, according to the survey and to the audits carried out, but also to the information which has been recorded so far in the national database of sewage treatment facilities, where the facilities are required to register the elements of the checks carried out at regular level, the Argus-Navplio plant operates legally, in compliance with the requirements laid down by the directive. As far as this incident is concerned, of course, it is likely to be an extraordinary seasonal event, due to the intense activity of the juiceries. At the moment we are talking about monitoring. So once the audit carried out and the environmental inspection that is currently under way is completed, I will also be able to give you specific information about it in that event that we are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u185	Me too, Minister. We shall now proceed to the last question, which will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Constantine Skrekas. It is the ninth under number 492/1-32021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Cerimitis Corfu: No end the destruction of nature". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor,
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, following the previous debate, it would be very interesting to tell us a wind generator in Denmark that is in the NATURA region. Tell us one. Then tell us how many in Greece they are not in NATURA areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u187	Tell me in Denmark what percentage of areas are known as NATURA and what in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u188	It's big. In Denmark too, it is a great deal, with the exception that there are protectionist and not taking the wind turbines to the mountains, whatever they are. This is all done in Greece. But let's go to the Desert. Let me remind you that Erimitis is this untouchable area in Corfu, the most important untouchable ecosystem in Corfu that we had, with three wetlands and very important biodiversity. Outside that, when the Prime Minister visited it, he said: "Beautiful is the forest, but the forests are burning. You do well and proceed with the investment, because these will remain." There we all saw with the photos released roads opening on the beach, on one of the protected wetlands, in the woods. And I ask you: since it is not on the basis of your own decisions that the relevant forestry service is not approved on the forest land, then what is the public body that covers the void created? Who will take over from now on the constitutional and environmental validity of road construction projects in the forests? Has this street been licensed, Minister? Has the environmental unit been established in accordance with environmental conditions? Who is it controlled by? How does it communicate the results of its audits to the public concerned in accordance with the Convention of the Princess and the relevant directive and case law of the European Court of Justice? They are just questions about an area that, after the Minister's 'prostitution', burned down and now broken up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u189	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u190	Mr Colleague, have you visited the area for which you have tabled a question today?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u191	How about you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u192	I've visited her. I have also visited the specific point where the investment will take place. Have you visited her? Because you've asked a question. Have you seen what's there? Apparently, no. Because you don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u193	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u194	You'll answer later. You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u195	Because you asked me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u196	I would like to tell you, therefore, that somehow we should in this country, with some rules always, bring growth, create conditions for strong and sustainable growth. Tourism is such a sector. We can have and provide many tourism products. We can provide mass tourism, which requires many sources, requires much water. In other words, millions of low-income tourists, but who consume too much water, produce a lot of waste, consume energy, because we need to cool down hotel rooms when they come, restaurants working. We can have a tourist product aimed at fewer but higher income tourists, where by consuming fewer domestic sources to enjoy greater incomes as a society and as a national economy. We have to decide what we want. I think it is easy to answer the questions I ask. Unless we do not want to have tourism, we do not want to have industry, we do not want to have processing, yet - we still do not want to have agricultural production, because it actually consumes some sources. So we will either have to find a way of creating sustainable and sustainable growth, as I have told you, so that we can and will help the environment and prevent the causes of the climate crisis, but also bring growth and jobs for the Greeks and new generations of Greeks, who must live and have a decent standard of life and a living level similar to what we would like to deliver to the next generations of Greeks, or we should sit here and do nothing to do and finally see all other communities surpass us. I am not that view, nor am I our government. This is an investment in a total of four hundred ninety acres, of which only thirty-five are used. Building will be limited to 7%, only thirty-five thousand square metres in a total of four hundred ninety acres. It's 7%. Does that look like it's impressively big? Does this seem to you to be destroying the environment? We are talking about a tourist unit which will attract a high level of tourism and which manages the water it consumes using surface water to a huge proportion. Do you know that? Have you read the operational plan? It deserves surface water, which is now lost in the area it has, in these four hundred nine hundred acres, and collects this water, so that it can use it during the summer months that the plant will operate. There are many other actions that protect the environment. Why wouldn't that happen? What's wrong with that? There's nothing going on in this country? You want something to happen? Where do you want it to be, tell us? In your own sense, "XENIA" would never have developed tourism in Greece and could not have worked hundreds of thousands of Greeks today - or rather tomorrow, because unfortunately because of the pandemic today - in this very important sector for our country. We have a different perception of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, you remind me very much of your colleague, Mr Georgiadis. The same arguments are said about the debate on Article 219, which you were missing, even though it gave the Ministry of Development the right to what will be "cemented" in NATURA areas. The model that you propose has been tested. It's what destroys our planet. We've tried the model you're telling us. As for tourism in Corfu, Corfu is a regulated world destination, it does not expect the cementing of its last coastal habitat to emerge. He has to lose, not win. Winning only has some privates. But let's also go to the core of your arguments. You have not responded to the illegality that seems to be happening. Your argument is "what to do, let's make illegal, to have jobs" in a place that doesn't seem to be hungry, it doesn't seem to have a lack of tourist development. There may be a need for collective agreements in tourist development and profit sharing, but not for tourist development. After visiting the remnant, I wonder how you lost, how you missed the fact that there are three endangered species in the remnant, two hundred and eighty species of flora and three lakes, three wetlands very important to the environment in Corfu, together with the surrounding areas. You look like you don't see them. You can only see the possibility for any protected area to place it in the cement. It's the growth of the 1960s, Minister. Do you realize that you are a Minister of the Environment in the age of the ecological crisis? Do you understand that? Do you realize that the ecological crisis means the destruction of nature? Do you realize that what's left of us is to protect it as an eye daughter, because that's what you destroyed and we got this far? Do you understand? Please return to our time, to the challenges of our time. The challenges of our time are not who will make more cement, it is how we survive in the century of the climate crisis, how we will protect these few left in Greece and the world. I am sure that in a philosophical or philosophical debate you would say how important it is to protect the Amazon forest. Uh, these are our amazons. That's what we have to deal with. But we must manage it, not wishing it to burn.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u200	Because you are coming here talking about illegality, let me tell you it took eight years, four different governments, twelve appeals to the Council of State, the Court of Auditors, ten ministerial decisions and fifty five state agencies to get permission to tourist complex the investment and privatisation was completed in December 2016. Because your argument is that Corfu is not hungry, so we don't need to develop more Corfu tourists, because there people don't have to work and it seems that the rest of the Greeks don't have to work, you need to know that at my place, the Trikala, too many Trikalinians, young children, leave the Trikala in the summer and go and work in tourist areas. So they are not hungry and they do not need to work, so we do nothing in Greece, because it is developed tourists in Greece. This does not seem to me to be an argument which is persuaded by many or on the basis of that, anyway, we cannot draw up a national policy. Of course I am Minister for the Environment and Energy. Of course, every day we talk together something is added to what we build, good or bad. I will, however, tell you, because you have said some things that you keep asking questions about the environment, that you too should sit down and read some things. Why did you say that there had been no wind turbulence in a NATURA region in Europe?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u201	I told you about Denmark.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u202	For Denmark. Do you know what percentage of NATURA areas we have in Greece? Do you know the NATURA network, the perimeter of this protection, what percentage of the Greek area does it cover and what percentage do the other European countries have? Do you know the average of European countries? Do you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u203	Is that a disadvantage? It's an advantage.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u204	It's an advantage, that's exactly what I'm telling you. Because you come and blame the Greek governments for finally having done nothing about the environment. Of course, I must tell you that our government will do much more than it has received and we prove it every day. So I will tell you that up until now in Greece 27.3%, over 27% of the Greek area, is covered by the protection of the NATURA network, when the average European term is 18%. So you can't come here and say that we don't respect and protect the environment. Overall, I want to tell you the Hellenic Republic and the political system have shown that they respect the environment. This is also apparent from our Constitution, from the 1974 Constitution and the 1979 Law, when the term for environmental protection and forest protection entered into the Greek Constitution. Here we are to discuss the rest, Mr Colleague, and find constructive solutions to help the Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-08-S1-commons.u206	With the consent of the House at 15.56 p.m. the sitting is closed next Wednesday, March 10, 2021, at 9 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
