ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have first to make some announcements to this House. I therefore have the honour to inform you that, in implementation of the Parliamentary Assembly decision of 30 March 2021, the Special Parliamentary Committee was set up to carry out a preliminary examination, in accordance with Article 86(3) of the Constitution, under Articles 153 et seq. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and Article 5 of Law 3126/2003 on the Criminal Responsibility of the Ministers, as applicable, concerning the investigation of the following offences which may have been committed by the former Minister of State from 23-9 to 05-11-2016 and then Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information by 09-07-2019, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, in the performance of his duties: 1) the donation of a political official to a serial and continuity (Article 159 PK) and 2) An infringement of a serial and continuous duty (PK 259). The decision in question has been posted to the 'Parliamentary Transparency', will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and will be communicated to the parties and to the other parties mentioned above. Congressmen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u2	Also, the Interior Ministers, the Vice-President of the Government, the Ministers for Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Work and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, State, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Health, Home Affairs, and State Secretarys to the Prime Minister, Citizens and Culture and Sport have tabled a draft law on 2-4-2021: ‘Internal Audit System of Public Administration, Adviser to Public Administration and other provisions on Public Administration and Local Administration’. Referral back to the competent Standing Committee In his letter the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall also inform the House of the timely questions to be debated today. Since their number is too large, it will not be read, but the relevant document will be submitted in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u3	We therefore enter the debate of the QUESTIONS The tenth question will be discussed at number 609/28-32021 in the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "Dangerous postponement of recruitment to the cleanliness of the municipalities (time of 3K/2018). The Minister of Interior, Mr. Mavroudis Voridis, will answer. Mr Colleague, you have two minutes to develop your timely question. I would ask all colleagues to keep the time, because there are enough questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I have the same benefit as I have, apart from the first, two other questions and the last question. So, obviously, we have to keep our time. Minister, this is the fourth time I have brought this matter to Parliament and with you this is the second time we have been discussing it. This time we are discussing not only the 3K for the problems it has had over the seven years, but we are discussing what will happen with the 3K's so-called 'urban', the second phase of employment contracts in the clean-up sector, particularly in the municipalities. I shouldn't have to come over here to raise this issue. We should not talk about whether a notice, which there were commitments to be made before the pandemic, which concerns recruitment to cleanliness, that is to say, such an important part of the treatment of pandemic. We should not discuss whether these recruitments should be carried out, let alone at the worst of the pandemic. I come here to ask you to tell us clearly what you are going to do with the 3K. Will you bring the new notice and what timetable? The second question is for people who have already been hired with the previous 3K. This is where you say that they will not be permanent. Whilst two years have been completed since their appointment, no permanent staff shall be made unless there is no evaluation. And yet, it has been about two and a half years, and this assessment is not being carried out. We want you to tell us what is going to happen with the evaluation. How many of the recruits have been evaluated and how many have become truly permanent officials, how many have passed the trial two years? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I spoke less than a second, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u6	I will reply very quickly to the question of evaluation, because this answer is included in a law and Parliament has voted for it relatively recently. The relevant arrangement is Article 32(4) of Law 4735/2020 and there it is laid down that the completion of the evaluation and work of the Special Evaluation Committees will take place for the 2019 rating period that you set me up until 30-9-2021. So that's your answer. You didn't have to, because the answer is in the law. So here I'm just telling you a reminder of the order. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] For the second time, I will come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u8	Minister, it would be nice to keep at least the order of questions. Our main issue here is the proclamation. We're going to be on evaluation, too. You say it is for the period 2019 and will be evaluated by 30-9-2021. A period will be evaluated here. These people have been hired in 2018. So, they've been hired a much longer period than you've identified. The evaluation period could well be prior to that. We've completed two and a half years now. Also, they remain unclear. We are talking about people who have been hired with the provisional tables in one place, with the final tables found in another place and the revised ones in another place. These people, how will they be evaluated? Do you commit that by 30-9-2021 all these charges will be evaluated? We must be clear, because we are talking about about eight and a half thousand people, who are waiting to hear what is going to happen with their evaluation and with their permanentisation. On the part of if you go ahead with the call for positions, it's a pity you want to avoid my own dentistry. It's a pity you want to avoid an answer to anything you have to say. I would expect a little more respect for the parliamentary procedure. I shall now refer to those who have already been recruited. They are people who were hired under certain conditions, found that almost two years have passed and that the terms of their recruitment have changed, while they have been working for over a year and a half. They have been found not to be able to use mobility for seven years, not to use all the conditions applicable to all other civil servants. Here there is a clear violation of the single of public sector employees. There is a single wage bill, there are uniform conditions, conditions and principles on which these people are working. There is a change without any reason essential to make this change. You excluded from the mobility of people who, when they applied, knew that in two years, they can move on the basis of the rights that exist in Greek laws. You changed that for a group of people and transferred it to the seven years. These are still huge problems. You keep adding new problems. It goes back all the time and its permanentity. We want you to be clear, if the deadline you say, 30 September, applies to all but all those who are successful in all three tables, provisionally, definitively and revised, of the 3K for all of these eight thousand and fifty people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, it is not my fault if you are asking things for which there are provisions and you are just calling me here to inform you of the existence of the provisions. That's not my responsibility. It's your choice. I answered your question. And I replied to you, stating the legal commitment that Parliament, of which you are a member, has voted on. The legal commitment shall state that date. It's not a provision that I put on. It is a provision which has arisen from the parliamentary procedure, from the legislative power of the House. So that's what I just pointed out to you. Let's go to the issue of the contract notice. For the notice you're asking, the truth is that since 2019 there have been thirty-three requests from operators to cover a total number of thousands of nine hundred organic positions. It is for this reason that the question of a contract notice is pending. But I'll tell you something now. It is our policy - and we want to do so - that there should now be a limitation of the so-called 'extensive staff' and that of temporary staff, which should in fact under normal procedures cover real positions, permanent posts and be converted into permanent ones. Be careful, though, what I am saying to you: does this mean that there will also be temporary and permanent, not that we will take an emergency and then move on to permanent, but that means what? That the upper limits will be set, the ceiling for temporary staff, and that is where recruitment policy and permanent recruitment policy will meet these needs. We must, however, see the reduction of temporary staff. So I am telling you very clearly that we are committed to this: this exercise is a study to be carried out in relation to temporary staff. We will incorporate the product of this emergency staff study into our recruitment policy for this year. So the overall answer, however, which is consistent with these two figures in your question, will be the product of this position, this solution - let me say it this way - and the time to deal with you in order to settle this issue is September this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. The first question under number 3623/460/27-1-2021 will be discussed and an application for the submission of documents of the circle of petitions - questions by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The measures of the "Antonis Tritsis" programme run counter to the obligations of recycling operators". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Stylianos Petsas. Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good week, first of all, to colleagues. Mr. Petsas, it is true that in the middle of the political hurricane Furthiotis, following the revelations of the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy for extortion, remodeling by order and high cost of subsidies and subsidies, playing games with the government's responsibility, but also after the great turmoil that you experienced yesterday in Patras and that we live in Thessaloniki, where the government informs the traders that they will open up and get goods, make windows, undo the suspension of staff, suddenly, surprisingly, Friday night, cancel it without any reason or because it is not the case for everyone, in front of many unfair and scandalous policy elements, we are here today to discuss a scandalous management of the issue of recycling with responsibility and the Ministry of Interior. So here we have a question, Madam President, which has not been answered in writing and which is why it comes to the oral procedure. It was submitted on 27 January by forty-three Members and the first question, Mr Petsa, is why you did not answer it, because this is a serious matter. There is a scandal that is evolving in the area of recycling, and we are not talking about - and I say it in advance, Madam President - in the issues of separate bio-waste collection, which Mr Petsas would like to see going on poorly, and Mr Hatzidakis has suspended until the end of 2022. It would have to be done much earlier, as we had legislated on it since 2018. The point is that this call provides for infrastructure and equipment to be sorted at the source for waste paper, glass, plastic and metal, without being designed in the municipalities, without having updated regional plans, without knowing the design of the Recycling Agency and, as it turns out, recycling systems, which are the most important and relevant to you, are to be financed by the alternative management systems. So, we've got entities that, well, badly, have been licensed. And I'm saying badly, because the back-up recycling, which photographically included in it, was licensed on a negative recommendation from the services. For only seven years the system has had negative suggestions. In any case, though, you are calling for a call of EUR 220 million, which also has funding from the European Investment Bank, and you are calling into question this relationship with the EIB on an item that has compulsory funding from elsewhere, where citizens pay for all these recycling charges and collects the systems? Here, then, is a scandalous management, Mr Petsa, which raises issues of State aid for irregularity, violation of the competition rules and, of course, waste of public money that the systems must pay for recycling. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why we are asking you today, so why, without the necessary approvals, are you currently going to do so? Because I see - and I am closing down, Madam President - that at the end of the day, the payroll that was unfavourable from all services and politically licensed - but it is a scandal of the Ministry of the Environment, not yours - must cover 100% of OTAs with five hundred integrated Reciprocal Reciprocal Recycling Centres and you are making a 220 million-dollar notice, which will finance the same things. So you're giving them money from the back door? What exactly is it, Mr. Pecha? Will you take measures? Because it is not your initiative, it is the previous Minister, but we want, because you are now in the political leadership, your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Madam President, and congratulate you on your election as head of the ESA. With regard to the first point which does not concern the question, Mr Famele, I would like to say that when there is an issue we have to deal with and it is so dynamic, such as pandemic, we are always all committed to dealing with and we are not trying to put the ball of responsibility on anyone. Government, self-government, business world, citizens, we are all all all Allies to win this battle. I went to Patras yesterday, as the Prime Minister's representative, to seek a mutually beneficial solution. Finally, as it turns out, the government reacted immediately and between the two options put forward by the business world, we have already proceeded with a statement this morning by the Ministry of Finance and the Minister responsible, Mr Staikoras, in support of enterprises that will remain closed with a state mandate and for this time that is required due to the outbreak of the pandemic. In the Minutes, I put the current press release of the Ministry of Finance, which shows that we are doing so. [[At this point the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Stylianos Petsas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release of the Ministry of Finance, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as the protests were concerned, they were clearly directed by members of your party, unfortunately two of your Members, with whom we had a very good and constructive debate during our meeting with the Chamber of Commerce, but toward them, when we finished the meeting, which we sought and found a solution. On the subject of the question, thank you for putting it, it is a very important issue that concerns the country, not only because of its commitments to the European Union to move forward the rate of recycling, but mainly to the responsibilities that we have on the planet itself, our children and the next generations. We must promote a greater recycling target by 2030. And we come, this government is setting up an integrated programme to promote recycling with the National Waste Management Plan, which was approved by the Ministerial Council on 31 August 2020. Thus, for the year 2025 we have been aiming at recycling urban waste of 55% on solid urban waste, while for landfill we have an target of 10% in 2030, five years earlier than the year - a target of 2035 on the basis of the relevant Community directive. Therefore, in order to achieve these ambitious objectives, we must all help each other within the scope of their competences. The Ministry of Interior, according to what is defined in the ECHR, will strengthen the work of the municipalities of the country. And that's exactly what we're doing. Following the ECHR, with the invitation to number 4 of the "Antonis Tritsis" programme, we have a programme, as you rightly said, of EUR 220 million for separate biowaste collection, recycling angles and waste transhipment stations. This was designed in the framework of the ECHR and we have, among other things, the development programme "Antonis Tritsis", in order to promote from the municipalities the objectives that I told you before. The current performance of the municipalities falls far short of the recycling targets, so it is imperative to have appropriate and innovative financial instruments to strengthen the relevant infrastructure of the municipalities. Actions eligible under this call are the creation of infrastructures for separate collection of biowaste, the creation of recycling angles for recyclable materials, the creation of waste transhipment stations, as well as actions to restore uncontrolled waste disposal sites. This invitation expires on 30 April. Because you referred to the Alternative Management Systems, I would like to make two points. First, the entire invitation shall be without prejudice to the provisions of the TENs. For example, point 21 of the preamble to the invitation referred to in point 4496/2017, which provides for the involvement of EEAN for the approval of municipal waste packaging by municipalities. In particular, the Municipality submits to the Hellenic Recycling Agency an application for an alternative management plan for approval. The second element has to do with the cooperation of the Ministry of Interior with EOAN. In this period, the amendment of certain points of the invitation, which will be considered by the EEAN for comments and comments, is under way. It is therefore not about duplication, it is about cooperation. As far as recycling angles are concerned, in order to clear things up, we all know that the TENs are obliged to provide the municipalities free of charge with the necessary collection equipment they collect on the waste they manage. We also know that this equipment does not meet the real needs of the municipalities, nor is it sufficient for the level of objectives set by the country on the basis of the ECHR. That is why we are strengthening these actions. With regard to the special equipment at the source, which you refer to your question, the aim of the invitation is to further concentrate the separate collection. We know that this is a decisive factor in the quantitative and qualitative increase in recycling in Greece, since the provisions of Law 46852020 stipulate that, until December 31, 2022, organic waste must either be separated and recycled at source either to be collected separately and not to be mixed with other types of waste in order to be subject to recycling. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I ask for your tolerance, Madam President. You also spoke about photographic invitations and something similar. The invitation is open to all available technologies and methods such as underground bins, semi-undergrounds, surfaces, recycling machines for separate collection by sorting and processing at source. I do not think that this technology should only be provided by one company. Also, because you mentioned it in your question and you were also present today, yes, it has indeed been approved by the EEW by the ETUC system submitted by return recycling - you specifically asked - by decision of the board of directors in February. As far as the requests you have put to your question for documents are concerned, I will submit to the Minutes: Firstly, the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Deposit and Loan Fund and the Ministry of Interior, on the financing of the Antonis Tritsis programme, as requested. Secondly, an extract from the minutes of the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Deposit and Loan Fund of 11 March 2021 concerning the signing of the loan agreement between the EIB and the Deposit and Loan Fund, which took place on 18 March. Thirdly, the EESC document responding to the projects submitted by the municipalities. Eighteen proposals have so far been tabled to call number 4, which, as we have said before, is open until 30 April 2021. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Petsas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, too. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u16	We have opened an interesting debate, but we must not take advantage of the President's kindness. Madam President, I would like to congratulate you on your work. Mr. Petsa, I asked you in my first question why you were making this terrible suffering and financial burden of traders and producers by telling them "read to open and then you will not open" suddenly within two days. I did not ask you whether you would cover these costs with a grand, possibly in exchange for being closed all over April. It's a lot of issues, I'm not gonna open them. Regarding recycling, I did not ask you what the needs of recycling and our country are. I asked you what toys are being played behind the invitation of the "Antonis Tritsis" programme. Because we are talking here about 220 million and about a question of the country's solvency over and against the European Investment Bank. And you may not be the one who made the first call, if I'm not mistaken, on 29-9, but you're managing the situation now. Be careful, Madam President. We reveal with at least three questions and we come to timeliness on this matter and Mr Petsas tells us - I will see it precisely from the Minutes, Mr Pets - that you are now communicating with the Ministry of the Environment and now making changes to the invitation. With an invitation six months ago, the government admits that we were right for so long. We'll see about the changes. I stand by, Mr. Pecha. So you admitted it. In the documents submitted, however, there is also a parameter we have requested, which is your correspondence with the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. You didn't say you were testifying her. I would ask you to come back, because the ACP, the application for documents, also had a section. But what's the point, Mr. Pecha? And I want us to stay on this. The Ministry of Interior finances equipment for the municipalities that have not yet planned - so it can be useless or not so usable - that they will have to incorporate it into their design. Because it is not required to have an approved plan and to include the equipment, so it has also been approved by the EEAN and by the EEIG, because this is how it provides for legislation, Mr Petsa. In fact, you are asking them to supply equipment that the systems, Mr Petsa, must provide themselves and provide the municipalities free of charge. So you finance something that the systems are obliged to do with the permission you have mentioned twice. The fact that back-up recycling has been licensed - badly because it has been done by a political recommendation contrary to the negative evaluation, but it has been taken - means that it is obliged to give this equipment free of charge to the municipalities. And now you're coming back and you're refinanced? Who are you doing a favor on? Apparently, it's a photographic invitation. Because you bring me the companies that have not only the same system as these houses, but also the financial tool described in them. In other words, you say to the municipalities you will obtain equipment that looks like the one that the system is obliged to give you for free, which has a negative assessment of its performance for recycling - do not play it sensitive to recycling, it has a negative assessment of performance, because we care about the country - and the municipalities, Mr Petsa, will be forced to do with a contract, because you are obliged by his invitation to "Third" to have the economic tool that only has one system in Greece. Isn't that photographic, Mr. Pecha, and the equipment should be just one company supplier? You have the political responsibility for a 220 million-dollar competition. For we will assess, Mr Petsa, here we will be, how many people will get biowaves and what budgets and how they will get recycled houses. Because both the Recycling Angles are an obligation of both the ESA and the Recycling Recycling and the equipment for electrical appliances is an obligation of the Recycling of Devices. So three systems have an obligation to provide equipment and you're giving money from Antonis Tritsis. So you're covering the obligation for them. So, as producers and citizens we pay to get a laundry, shouldn't we pay for the recycling fee? Are you telling the citizen that the money that the systems receive do not go where the state and Europe want? You're applying, Mr. Pecha, double funding. The result is that there is a problem with regard to the control of the JCCM on State aid. There is also a serious problem with regard to compatibility with operational plans. There is no explicit exception to what is financed by the systems. And here we are, Mr. Pecha. You will be exposed by what you have just said, that you refer to Law 4496. Because I was the Secretary-General at Law 4496. You refer to the institutional framework, but you are not referring to an exception, what is covered by it will not be covered by Antonis Tritsis. There is a very serious issue - and I must say it - since there are retrospective systems which are compulsory by you, with the European Investment Bank. Does the European Investment Bank know that you are funding twice, even with the limited ones you have taken? Because you have reached an Antonis Tritsis sub-financing from the 2.5 billion said by Mr Mitsotakis, you have only 1 billion, and if you have it, with 500 million from the EIB. But that's another case. I ask you: is the European Investment Bank aware of the distortion created? Do you know that the issues of the European Competition Committee are being raised and that the matter will go to DGComp? Do you know that you and the country are going to be exposed? It won't stay here. He's entering the minutes of the House. The issue will also go to DGComp in the Directorate-General for Competition. So, do you unreasonable state aid with European money to the systems and municipalities that have to have them from another source and get them from the citizens, Mr. Petsa? That is why you need to answer and not whether recycling is good. We know. I told you I was the law rapporteur. In my law you refer to SYRIZA's own law. The question is what you will do with this funding. It's a new scandal and it's on your signature now, no matter that the call was made with your predecessor. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Just shorten up, please. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Madam President. I don't understand, Mr. Femmelle. Do you want recycling to leave the country or not? I understand that everywhere, in any attempt to strengthen recycling, which is very important, in order to achieve the objectives I have told you before, I see that you have a refusal. As far as the issues of the European Investment Bank and the issues relating to competition are concerned, all this is, of course, considered and it is a matter of the European Investment Bank which signed the loan agreement for a programme which the President also welcomed. I would refer you to Mr Hoyer's statements on 18 March when we signed the loan contract. As far as the level is concerned, it is clear that we are starting with a lower amount in order to reach a higher amount. It depends on us. I myself have said to many of the CEDEFOP's boards personally that we are allies in trying to absorb this money. If we absorb the money available to us, we will increase cofinancing from the European Investment Bank. As far as the issues you raise are concerned, it is very simple. The issue of the economic tool is a key component of all European recycling policies and of the revised ECHR, which I mentioned before and which was adopted by the Ministerial Council in August 2020, and it is an exclusive choice of the municipalities for how they will use it. With regard to the issue you raise about companies that, possibly, have cooperated with the municipalities to submit proposals, we will see this when their adoption is going to proceed. That's what I have to add. What matters is to use the resources of Antonis Tritsis for the benefit of changing the appearance of local societies. And within this change of view, they are, of course, also the parts of green economic growth brought about by recycling. We are here for any question you have in the future. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too, Minister. The fifth under number 599/22-3-2021 will now be discussed, first question by the Greek Parliamentarian, Mr. Vasiliou Villiardou, with the Minister of Justice, on the subject: “Management of medical practices during the hospitalisation of patients “COVID -19”. Mr. Villiardou's question will be answered by the Minister of Justice, Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras. Mr. Villardo, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, good day. Thank you very much for your presence. The burden of the health system is known because of the pandemic. Our country had a small number of ICUs before the pandemic due, among other things, to the memorials, six per 100 000 inhabitants in 2012 when the European Union average was 11 and a half per 100 000 inhabitants. The Minister of Health reported on February 3, 2021 that ICUs were added, reaching the thousands of three hundred. However, many numbers were published on the available ICUs, such as a thousand sixty-three from "Kathimerini" on 8 November and nine hundred and forty-one from EGE on 21 September. As far as we are concerned, we shall be tabling documents in the Minutes. Ms. Pagoni now, on 20-2-2021, said we have about eight hundred and fifty ICUs. Shortly thereafter, on March 3, the Minister of Health said they increased to two thousand and twenty two, while the Prime Minister recently - yesterday - said that there are a thousand four hundred seventy-five, which means that there is, in fact, a chaos with the numbers. Of course, all of this depends on what is characterised as an IF, i.e. common beds with a respirator, if there is a qualified staff etc., as well as whether private ones are included, although important it is that there is a shortage, and also that there is no common IFO criterion. Furthermore, hospitals were served with trained doctors, private volunteers and pensioners, and even the mission was mentioned, because there were very few recruits, about three hundred. Under the specific circumstances of shortages, now, there was a statement by Mr. Kontozamanis in January 2021, before the tightening of the lockdown and the suffocation in hospitals, according to which, for non-ATT deaths, doctors are responsible for making the choices, thereby expressing the question whether his objective was to transfer the responsibility to doctors instead of the state, who has not taken care of more IF. It was reasonable, then, to think that these statements worked as a lever for doctors, so they could intubate patients until the IM’s capacity was exhausted, so they had an alibi. When there was, and saturation, the issue was downgraded, as recently with Mrs Papastavrous' statement that deaths outside the ICM are only 20%. What does that mean? It is not clear, however, how it is decided who is led to the ICMs and who is not. And citizens are asking for clean answers. In any case, all these are matters for which there should be records so that they can be investigated both by the state and by the patients concerned, as to whether there are legal responsibilities to be attributed. There are, now, patients who refuse to enter hospitals and then ICUs, but they are forced by doctors either directly or indirectly. There have been complaints about the lack of proper drugs for ignorance or other reason. So they reach a point to be introduced into an IF as a last resort. We don't believe it, but we're not judges to judge it. For example, the MP of the New Democracy, Mr. Callianos, whose brother was hospitalized in Cyprus. In an interview he said he was in a bad state with the prospect of being evacuated. But after a call from Mr. Chiodra at his clinic, he provided other therapy with colchicin and became well, which is of course not feasible to ordinary citizens. Finally, the most worrying thing is that the permanent full-time ICUs cannot meet the needs of care, while they are used to justify even harder lockdowns, which destroy both the economy and health. There is therefore no way in future to claim compensation from firms affected, since they have the necessary data. Our questions here are as follows: First, is there any monitoring and recording of how patients are selected? Is there any intervention by judicial authorities in cases where patients' rights to access an IF are violated, or where they refuse them? And secondly, does the actual number of existing IF beds or does anyone who wants what they want without any sanctions being imposed? On count I shall refer to my dentistry. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I hope in your dentistry you are shorter. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, I think we should say anything to agree on a specific assumption. Faced with the pandemic, not only in Greece, but in all the European countries, the countries of the world, it creates an extremely difficult and, of course, extremely urgent situation. It creates an unprecedented situation - as I said earlier - not only for our country, but for the entire European and world community as a whole, which has been tested on multiple levels for a year trying to find effective ways of protecting human life. We all know that the whole of the European governments have so far chosen a very strict package of measures to limit the spread of the coronary. These measures, of course, together with the vaccination of a large part of the population, will help to cope with health pressure and to come out quickly and effectively from this unprecedented pandemic crisis and to bring all of us back to health, if possible, to professional, economic and social normality. The Government has, since the beginning of the new outbreak of the pandemic and the increase in the number of hospitals has put in place the emergency plan which has been drawn up since the beginning, constantly strengthening the National Health System, of course, by making use of both the possibilities of the private health sector and of course of the military hospitals. At the same time, every effort has been made through free control, testing, so that there is a direct detection of the new cases, that the vaccination process per age group is respected, and of course we will all be making a very serious effort to upgrade the level of citizens' compliance. The Government, Mr Vice-President of the Greek Solution, both through the Prime Minister's mouth and through its relevant ministers from the first phase of the pandemic, provided daily detailed and detailed information to the citizens on all aspects of the pandemic, whether they were related to the measures taken, whether the number of cases, nurses and, of course, to those who lost their lives, to the availability of the ITHs and the prescribed treatments and, of course, to the vaccines. Therefore, the questions you raised today - and I think we should look at them in a broad picture - I think that you have put them inadvertently to the Ministry of Justice. Because your entire references were in another ministry and not in the Ministry of Justice. Whether there are any issues on which justice can see them, of course, I will reply to my speech and give you some information which is essentially in response to a very small part of the question you raised earlier. But I think, Mr Vice-President, that all these are issues which, to a very large extent, do not concern the Ministry of Justice, but basically the Ministry of Health. As regards, of course, the crucial issues you have raised, I think - and this is a more general assumption - that they have been answered by the government as a whole through its relevant ministers. However, in a treaty which, on the one hand, is unprecedented, and on the other hand is inconvenienceing the whole world community and, thirdly, highlights issues and issues which none of us have seen in a previous year, we must also come forward with the seriousness and responsibility and with the understanding of a reality that is unknown to all of us, but, above all, to highlight all these issues that will keep the pandemic indicators in our country very low and give us the opportunity to return as soon as possible to this normality that we all want. I'll come back to my second speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Minister, only I wanted the view of justice, we as a party wanted the view of justice, and you did not really answer any of our questions. Obviously, the problem concerns the whole of Europe, but you know very well that in the rest of Europe there are not these conflicting statements on the ICMs, on how to choose the tube and the others. That is what I wanted to hear, to know whether there are sanctions or not there are from the point of view of justice. Our next question is whether there is a monitoring of the treatment and medication administered, because we find that the state has focused on the experimental vaccine. The fact is, however, that there is a division between the producing countries, as to what is acceptable, at the same time as any loss of life or adverse effects on vaccines are downgraded, while companies do not take any legal responsibility. On the other hand, there are some approved treatments that seem to be also degraded for the benefit of the vaccine, according to - among other things - with a recent publication on the administration of monoclonals, such as the hospitalisation of mild attributes at home, where doctors at witness to my own recommend Depon, while abroad give other medicines such as Chlorine, Colchicin, etc., although we have seen something similar in the EGE directives, to be objective. In addition, the Prime Minister has stated that the vaccine is the only solution, while he considers it a prerequisite for opening up the economy when mass vaccination is late and tourism will start before. And Mr Mosialos who promotes the 'ASTRAZENECA' vaccine, which the European Union has blocked, said that Colchikin is not helping, while Mr Georgiadis said that the treatment of Regeneron is not enough for everyone, so the solution is the vaccine. Furthermore, there are complaints about how the dead are recorded, namely whether there is an autopsy of the causes or a COVID death is reported, even when they are not COVID, or there are underlying diseases even obesity that seems to have a possible correlation, at least 78% in the United States. In any case, the number of the dead is of great importance, because this is the risk of the disease and decisions are made, and it will help research for the future and for possible treatments, as we mentioned earlier. In the problems of recording, Mr Chiodras has also been mentioned by saying that there are excesses. That is exactly how he said "there are exaggerations". Our questions here - please answer them as far as you can from the point of view of justice - are: First, is there any monitoring and recording of the treatments administered? Is there an intervention of business or professional interests in the treatments administered, i.e. medicines or ICUs, ICUs or increased care, vaccine or medicine, etc., as well as in the coverage of events by the media? Secondly, how is the recording of coronary losses? In a statement or after an autopsy? Are data on the side of justice kept? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u26	Mr Colleague, before I give you the answers concerning the Ministry of Justice, I would like to begin with a reference to another common assumption, which I believe you, too, share, first of all, that whatever measures are taken, whatever the design that is being carried out, we must respond effectively to the protection of public health, which concerns all Greek citizens. That's the target. That is, in fact, the reference to all the decisions taken, all the measures decided on and, of course, all the plans that we have to implement. As far as you are concerned, of course, your question is to the Ministry of Justice regarding the intervention of the judiciary, despite the fact that, if you see the whole of your first and second speech and your secondary speech, the reference to matters of the Ministry of Justice may not be one-eighth, to say so, I will try to be clear and give you some specific positions, which I think we all have to understand in the field of the Greek Parliament and, of course, to be sure to convey as messages to the Greek society. According to the fundamental principles of independence and self-government of Justice, Articles 26, 87, 88 and 90 of the Constitution, the judicial authorities carry out their work in full independence and are solely responsible for assessing the information and information obtained in their knowledge, their use and, of course, their further actions. It is therefore certain and I think there should be no doubt at all that the judicial and public prosecutors intervene directly within their jurisdiction as soon as they have received any complaint, whether by name or by anonymity, in order to investigate the conduct of a criminal offence. This is, of course, done on its own initiative in cases where the law provides for it, and following a specific complaint in the eyes of a denounced or suede in any other case, to clarify how justice works. Consequently, any patient who considers that his or her rights are affected may complain to the competent services operating in principle under the supervision of the Ministry of Health. Who are these? We know them. The Department of Healthcare Protection Offices operating in each hospital. Citizen Service Centres on health and social solidarity issues in health regions. The Ministry of Health Health Protection Committee. The Office for the Management of Complaints and Complaints of the National Health Services Agency, the so-called EEA. The Health and Social Solidarity Counselor. These authorities will transmit for investigation only to the competent prosecutors, if there is any matter. Otherwise, if any complaint or information concerning the conduct of a criminal offence comes to the attention of the Prosecutors, the Prosecutor responsible shall be independently and independently seized in order to investigate its legal and factual basis. After that, I think it is clear that justice is well aware of the legislative framework and provides the most secure guarantees in the exercise of its constitutionally distinct and independent jurisdiction. This also confirms the answer we received from the Attorney of the Ice Region to a question that we sent on the occasion of your question and which I will present to you in the Minutes, in order to have it, to know precisely about the cases in which Greek justice has been dealt with. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It just needs to be understood to all of us that no one is allowed to indicate how justice will work. Indirect suggestions in the work of the prosecutors and inquiries from wherever they come - we do not need to make the parentheses about what was happening in the recent past - constitute an unacceptable constitutional interference in the work of justice and, of course, a violation of constitutionally established fundamental principles. This is how the government treats the role and functioning of justice. Justice is constitutionally guaranteed as far as its independence and the way it works is concerned. All the issues that are raised in mind are under the judgement of the judicial authorities in order to promote and proceed with any procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too, Minister. We move to the eleventh, with number 620/29-32021, a topical question for the second question by the MP of Heraklion, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Vardakis, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Attack with regard to the financing of the North Road Axis of Crete from the Recovery Fund". The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Madam President, and allow me to congratulate you on your election to the EVA and wish you good strength. Minister, I will say the triumphant things we are all saying, that the implementation of the North Axis will make a decisive contribution to the development of Crete, will unite Crete, but above all will create road safety conditions, as blood tax on the roads of the island is unbearable. Minister, the world has really become sick of us now in a constant controversy on issues of major importance that remain unresolved. I have heard you - and it is your honour - to recognise positive developments and interventions by the previous government on important issues of the responsibility of the Ministry that you have in charge today. I, Minister, will acknowledge that you have been making an effort, although in the past five months and more than six months, you have confused us a little. I also want to say that you cannot ignore the SYRIZA government's effort to put BOAK after forty years, a life-threatening project for the Cretans. Listen to me: "Thank you very much, because we are being given the opportunity, in this Chamber today, to reopen the issue of a very important infrastructure project of the BOAK, which reminds us of the modern bridge of Arta, because it is a project on which many political careers have been built, especially on the beautiful island of Crete, but at the same time many expectations have been disproved for many years". Your words are, Minister, at a similar question some time ago. This is how you indirectly recognise the responsibility of all the previous governments, and that is why I said that it is to your credit. Minister, I have a step forward here - but I am not going to mention it, because I do not like to do this - what we have done as the SYRIZA government. Have we made it to an absolute degree? Of course not. I would like to assure you, however, that the previous Minister, Christos Spirtzis, and the entire Ministry staff, many of whom today, and you, have in the Ministry - and good, because they are workers, are people who are familiar with the subject - have done enough work. I have a very own view of what I'm telling you. However, I do not hear you repeat that you have received a sketch at the moment when you adopt the original design on the two competitions from the previous government. Minister, I tabled the question because until yesterday - I had tabled it several days ago, to clarify it - we had no picture of the funding and the timetable, although the Prime Minister himself had declared the opening of the competition in the first quarter of 2021. The Prime Minister told us that funding could result from a transfer of revenue from another concession. Mr Stavros told us that he considered funding from the profits of the European Central Bank and the Central Bank. And most importantly, you have postponed, Minister, together with the Prime Minister, three times - if I am not mistaken - your visit to Crete, to make the relevant announcements. There is, unfortunately, no notice of timetable even to this day. We were told until the day before yesterday that Brussels is negative. As you all know, we have a positive development here, with the partial financing of the project from the Recovery Fund, as long as you can confirm it to us today. So, Minister - and I am closing with this - that we are not here almost every day, tell us a clear timetable and the rest of the financing of the project. I'm stopping, Minister, here. I have no intention - I honestly tell you - of an inexpensive controversy. I don't have a zero, as your executives do...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u30	I shall conclude, Madam President. I said about the effort you're making. At some point, however, our fellow citizens in Crete must take a breath, having a clear picture of where we are, where we are going for a project that - if you like - relates to the very lives of all Greek citizens. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let me also say, Mr Colleague, that the time when you tabled your question has proved to be the most appropriate one. Because the Prime Minister himself last Wednesday presented the National Plan of Resilience and Recovery, a very well thought out road map of seventy specific actions, projects, investments, reforms, a total package of 57 billion euros, if we add to the EUR 32 billion of European funds - grants and loans - and an additional substantial EUR 25 billion to be mobilised by the private sector. It is a project that many analysts have rightly said is even bigger than a second ESDP. And within this, some very flagrant and important actions of the Ministry have been included. The most important thing - I would say - is that of the BOAK, the Northern Road of Crete, which is partly financed by the Recovery Fund. This is the first time that after forty years we have been able to speak with specific figures for funding - because as you rightly referred to your question and said that many careers have been built, I fear that some of them will be destroyed now - because it is simply the first time that the first money on the financial contribution of the Greek State will come from European funds. So let's go see things in turn to give the answers. You were right to say that we didn't cancel the previous contest, but look, the previous contest what was it? It was a competition of interest. In this competition, my dear fellow Member, unfortunately, there was no curriculum maturity and there was no final engraving. It was therefore a competition that specifically called on companies to come and declare interest. So, it was a competition he didn't actually do much. We did not change that because we had no reason. The thing wasn't the contest. The thing was where we're going to get money. Well, then, the money we have now, to a very large extent we have 427 million euros, which will go to this project. We are talking about the 'Chania Hersonissos' part, which is a concession contract - which will be made under a concession agreement - and here you will challenge me to tell you that you said you would make a concession without tolls. This has not been done anywhere in the world. Then you told us "we will put tolls, but tourists and visitors will pay for them and not the Cretans". That's anti-Union. So, better - you're right - don't go back. Let's say things with their name. The second part is the "Hersonissos - Neapolitan", twenty and a half kilometers. My dear colleague, if you haven't read, let me inform you that the second phase of the competition was completed last week. The environmental impact study has been submitted for these twenty and a half miles. I have here and Mr Tagaras, who can confirm that, because he is responsible for the environmental impact study. We have Neapolis - Agios Nikolaos, fourteen and a half kilometers, which is a public project. It's a piece around eleven and twelve kilometers, if I remember well. And we have the "St. Nicholas - Sitia", which is the last piece. Also, we did something else, we put another thirty-six kilometers in as an option in the concession agreement that was not in existence before, the "Kissamos- Chania", the option of a thirty-and-a-half km option in the part of the concession, a road that has very high loads. To close and say what we have done, then, in a few words: firstly, the procedure has gone ahead in a very short time. I will tell you something to compare: For Corinth - Patras, a road of a hundred and twenty kilometers, we made - as a Greek Republic, I mean, as a Greek state - seven years for the development of studies and spent 15 million euros. In twenty months we spent 2.5 million euros and we have the same result, the ripening of all the necessary studies, so that in the next few months for the vast portion of the fifty-five kilometres to go back to the Ministry of the Environment and to present an environmental impact study. Therefore - to close, Mr President, to have the opportunity in dentistry to complete - we have tabled an environmental impact study on PPPs, which means that we have drawn up. We have also done all the necessary geotechnical research, the acquisition of the transit area, studies of specific ecological evaluation, pre-study of road and plumbing projects and a series of twenty studies to slowly end up in the final development of the road. Without studies you have no engraving, without engraving you can't take an environmental impact study and without an environmental impact study you can't auction work. So we have taken all this a step - step by step, as I have explained, and we have done something that first happened after thirty, forty years. You are older than me in the locals of Crete and you know how many years this road has been discussed. We have secured funding, namely the public contribution to this project of EUR 427 million. And don't tell us that it's a little bit of this money, because it's a concession contract, which means that it'll put private money too. Therefore, we have reached a point where very soon this work was not, if you like, a dream of many decades, going into a very specific door. I am at your disposal for any further clarification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you know, it's a little annoying what you're doing. If I am not mistaken, you said five, six times the phrase 'for the first time', while you know. I, in good intentions, recognized the effort you have made. But you still have a degree of misinformation. For example, I want to ask you something that has now come to my mind. When did you send the request to the Ministry of Culture, I say an example of the archaeological work to be done? Answer me later. The other thing I want to ask you is to do with this. Look, Minister, I said we didn't do everything perfectly. But even the works we have given you in a fairly satisfying context you have left them in God’s mercy. Not to tell you about Lygaria, not to tell you about St. Pelagia that some of them are related to the North Road Axis. Also, not to tell you about the street of Messara. We gave him 40 million, and we finished it, and two interventions of 2-3 million are still stagnating. In Lygaria, we have been mourning victims and for two years you have not known the problem. For the convoys of Agia Pelagia and Achladas we have given you the studies, we have given you everything, as well as the funding, the project has started for two years. Also, with regard to the Carter - Episcopy node, everything was ready and finished, such as electricity studies and environmental studies. But, and that's in the air, actually trapped in a dead end of ten thousand people. Minister, check it out. I want to ask you this. You yourself said you would continue the competitions launched by the SYRIZA government. In fact, you argued that the international competition of the SYRIZA government will not be cancelled, as it was necessary and through this result the companies taking part in the next stage arise. You have also admitted something that SYRIZA has been stressing for years, namely the fact of the failure of the previous thirty years, namely the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, before the SYRIZA Government. We in the three years of SYRIZA governance have to present work, especially in Crete. It is what I have said to you before, that is, several projects under difficult budgetary conditions. Minister, I will stop here. But I want to tell you that we have to agree on something. We all want a road road on Crete, which will not Are human lives at risk? Should we agree that Crete has been the ‘poor relative’ in infrastructure projects for thirty-five years, not to say forty, except for 2017, 2018 and 2019, and I can substantiate it, but I do not have the time, I do not tell you about 2015 and 2016, I know what I say - that took important steps in terms of infrastructure projects in Crete? Here you are, Minister, gloriously glorious in order to go through the theory in practice, because you have not yet done so in important projects. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And as I told you in my protology, we do not have to be in a constant controversy. I did not hear you today tell me a specific timetable. I have not heard you say that the competitive procedures are beginning or that we are even making a provision. The Prime Minister had told us that the competition proceedings would begin in the first quarter of 2021. What are you telling us today? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u36	Unfortunately, once again, we understand the very relaxed relationship between SYRIZA's fellow Members and the truth. And you have seen that from those who have listened to us because you have asked questions that have nothing to do with BOAK. On one subject, on the other. Listen, my dear colleague, I have treated you with a decency, because your question, if I read it here, is completely flawed by the facts. So listen, to put things in a row. You are telling us that at the end of 2020 you have argued that you will increase the public's financial contribution through the Recovery Fund. It happened two days ago. The facts themselves are flawing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u37	It's your statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u38	Will BOAK ultimately be used from the Recovery Fund? Yeah, it's funded. What you have not been able to achieve for five years has been financed. Now let's go back, 'cause I don't want to leave anything unanswered. When the BOAK, which has been discussing for many years, was discussing, there was a commitment from almost all of the political world that we do not put tolls. The only politician who, as opposition, said "No, the road will have a toll" - who usually as opposition we do what SYRIZA used to do, promised everything to everyone, while we did not - was Mitsotakis. And he said the obvious, that is, that the user must pay, but that toll meticulously in the portion of the concession of fifty kilometers. You said other things as Opposition. Of course, my predecessor, Mr. Spirtzis, did not say that. The Members of Parliament have spoken to them in Crete. You said you weren't going to toll. So this work is not done without tolls. That's a misunderstanding. We went out and told the truth. To make the road, someone has to pay. He has to pay the public too, he has to pay the private. To get the private back his money and maintain and operate the road, they have to get tolled, just like they've been on all the other major highways. So now let's go and see how things are going. You said: what have you done now. I told you that the second phase of the competition at the PPP went ahead. That's why we've already taken and submitted an environmental impact study. Whether we like it or not, that hadn't happened in the past. I do not want to level the past, and I consider the bravery of my predecessor, if you like, who, in fact, without saying it, did a concession. He did what you on the left and on the centre-left were always against. In other words, he went and made a financial model that actually calls on individuals to participate in the project. And that's what I recognize. He may not be recognized in his party because he has actually said that to make the road, we need to find out who will pay him. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] That was the problem of this road and of BOAK, that is, everyone was talking about the road, everyone was talking about a huge project, but nobody said where the money was going to be! And he came and made a call of interest that is the first step. It's small, but it's the first step. The important steps, however, have not been taken and are now in twenty months' time. There is a whole process of studying maturity, road engraving, and environmental impact study. It is done for the first time, and most importantly. We have guaranteed funding for part of the Greek public's financial contribution! These steps are therefore important. I would like us all to understand - and I think those who are particularly aware of this - that the BOAK is the largest road project, the largest motorway built today in the European Union. The older one! And it's built and it's going to take its way. It has taken its way and the financial contribution has been found. I therefore agree with you that we should not be flattered. Your own question was denied by the facts, because on Wednesday we were told what I said by an oral Prime Minister and we are waiting for final approvals, so that the process can begin, so that we can have the money to start this very big project. We're going to start this project. The second phase of the PPP competition for twenty and a half kilometers is a fact. We're not tearing down everything we found. Continue and build. It is a work of breath, but to say things by their name - and I thank you for your tolerance, Madam President - it has specific procedures in place. I am always at the disposal of the Greek Parliament to come and apologize if you want and explain all these procedures with as much detail as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too, Minister. The fourth question with number 621/29-3-2021 will be discussed in the second question of the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Manolis Synthraki, with regard to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The delays in the approval of town plans in the municipal schools of Skalanio and the municipality of Heraklion". The State Secretary for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the timely question, as the President has already announced, concerns the high delay in the extradition of town planning. A characteristic example of delaying approval, with an unknown ending, is the densely populated areas in the Municipal Apartments of Skalanio and Kingdom of Heraklion. In 1997, urban studies were commissioned, they have not yet been approved and they may have to be reopened. In other areas the construction process has not even begun. Of course, the great loose end is Heraklion itself, with the policy implemented over the years by all governments. What does this unjustified delay prove? In our view, the state's priorities in spatial and urban planning are not determined on the basis of modern people's needs and respect for the environment, but on the basis of the needs and plans of business interests, in the name of a development that is of benefit to the few and not the many. This is not an arbitrary finding. Through lightning legislation and pretext for growth, investment licenses are simplified and launched by fast track procedures. In this context, the transfer of building powers to private individuals, as well as the improperness and the imposition of class criteria by governments over time, as well as by municipal authorities in the procedures for the approval of city plans in areas of people's housing. That is of course what Mr 4759/2020 does. Under the pretext of combating spatial and urban anarchy, it comes to regulate issues of construction, land use, land planning in general, but not on the basis of the interests of the vast majority of workers, micro-owners outside the construction plan, but on the basis of the needs and interests of the urban class in Greece. Of course, the sub-funding of the state for urban planning and the sub-scribing of the relevant services plays a role. The necessary prerequisite for the completion of the regulatory planning is the financing of the studies of local spatial projects, since the cost is high and most municipalities cannot cover it. In the wider area of Heraklion Crete, which received a large flow of police and internal immigration over the past decades, resulting in the multiplication of the population, state and municipality, they literally left the old city in the 1926 plan, while the expansion of projects in other areas was minimal. Thus, there was an eruption of arbitrary construction with four generations arbitrary due to a lack of legal structure. There has been a deterioration in the quality of construction and public space, a burden on the people's blocks, arbitrary fines, obstacles to building, depreciation of micro-ownership, lack of necessary infrastructure, free public spaces, sporting spaces and go by saying. Expansions of projects in some neighbourhoods have not solved the popular problems. And I say this because there was a review of the 1926 plan in the old town of Heraklion, which began 15 years ago and has been frozen. Only in the district of Agia Triada was completed and covered more business renewal plans than popular needs. So we ask you, Minister: what urgent action will you take to launch town plans in these districts of Skalanio and Heraklion, covering all the people's needs? Secondly, when will the town and local administration be fully served with permanent staff to speed up the service of the people? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u41	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u42	Colleague, it is true that spatial planning and urban planning over time is a maximum demand, because we have been delayed planning and organising the space. More than 80% of the site needs redesign, rules, order, principles and frameworks under which everyone will know what is allowed and what is forbidden in each area. It is true that when planning from the moment it starts it is delaying to complete - we are talking about twenty-five years of delays - the institutional framework is changing. Especially in recent years, the institutional framework referred to in these designs has changed many times. Plans shall enter into force with the specifications in force at the time of the notice but shall be approved under the terms and conditions in force at the time of approval. So when the plans are so late, they go to the end and come back from the beginning. This is due to the fact that the completion of the project is a long way from being completed. When you plan a region to develop, you plan it to complete the design in five, ten years at most, not in twenty-five and thirty and forty years. Then the data you've taken into consideration at first have changed. This results from the delays for the Skalanio and Basilica settlement of the Municipality of Heraklion Crete, to which you referred. It is a design that started on February 16, 1998 from the then prefectural self-government, which went ahead to complete. It's been a lot of journeys. They went to the district, came to the Ministry, came back to correct and complete many of the studies because they were incomplete and eventually returned to the region. They were concerned with geological studies of suitability, delimitation of fields and other parameters that the design itself must include. Indeed, because there were delays - in particular, I am referring to the approvals of geological studies - in 2014, where I had the honour of being Deputy Minister of the Environment, with Article 5(5), for all these outstandingities and delays in geological studies, it was possible for decentralised administrations to be able to approve such studies. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. I have an answer and it will be absolute and concrete in the timetable you have mentioned. I do not want to take time from my prototype, but I will cover you, my dear fellow Member, for what is being done at the moment to deal definitively with the issue not only of the Skalani Settlement and Kingdom, but also of the entire pending areas of Greece and Crete in relation to the new design. But I'm going to continue in my dentistry. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u44	Minister, the issue of delays in the approval of town plans is at least being considered and raised from the point of view of the people's interests and let me insist on this distinction. I say this because the delays that exist come as a result of a political choice and not just of bureaucracy or technical problems. They come as a result of political choice, why? Because the political choice is that it prefers to prioritise, for example, the resolution and accelerating of investment activities and projects rather than covering such immediate folk needs or the need to extend the city plans. All the legislative initiatives which have been taken so far - not by a New Democracy Government but by previous governments - at the level of town planning extend the right to entrepreneurial action and reduce the right of individual and family action of the people. There has been a lot of laws on this all over the past few years. So the limits of rights and prohibitions on building are again laid down institutionally. We do not forget that, in practice, these will be overturned not only by the arbitrary nature of the citizens, who have forced them all governments to go there over time, but also by the arbitraryness of capital, but also by the state itself. Why am I saying that? Because you make the wrong eyes or give them and air to the sails to install actions where it suits them with arbitrary arrangements with little or no fines, you see violations in forests, beaches, public spaces. The state at all levels of government arbitrarily does not fund, delays in completing for decades and does not complete the construction planning process. That's what we're pointing out. That's what we're showing. That is why we are pressing for the adoption of town plans to be accelerated, but in one direction, the people themselves, the people themselves, to take the case in their hands and claim what they, in any case, have to claim. But never did this state, with public expenditure, ensure the necessary social infrastructure in the urban areas for water, sewerage, rainwater, electric, anti-milling, sidewalks, education and health areas. With the latest law that I told you in 2020, L.4759, the state is relieved of any obligation by an explicit ban that says that anyone who has no big capital and its own area is not building out of plan and not having any demands from the state. There it is! It is a challenge - frankly - that of the millions - I do not know whether billions of euros have been collected from the misery of the poor people's families who have joined the various law on settlement, has not returned a single euro to these regions to deal with these serious problems of civil protection and planning. Of course, in the non-project areas, the state does not have the obligation to ensure the above infrastructures. I would like to say that at least we have no illusions about the fact that even the speeding up of approval of town plans will not change the preferences for the support of major private interests. That is why we say that the popular pressure is the one that will change them the most. We're just putting the fire on the pistol so the people can take the case in their hands. After all, the chronic failures to implement the city plans since 1958 in Heraklion prove it, which have always been an impact on the private property regime. I don't want to get into the arbitrary matter. It is a whole talk of who is responsible and how micro-party and micro-politicalally exploited by all governments and by you and by PASOK etc. along the way. They enriched companies. People dragged into court. So what did they do? They double-paid what they built and how they built it, with what materials they built it. In any case - and I conclude, Madam President - what I think is really necessary is mass pressure by the people on the demand for strict compliance by the state with its obligations in urban planning and its implementation, with the corresponding reduction in the obligations of the people's population, without the cultivation of any illusion of the role of the current state, but instead, with the indication that only another state with other power can resolve this issue, the ownership issue of the people's roof. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u45	I would like to ask you, because the number of questions is too great, to try to be close to our time. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, in my protology, I referred to timeless delays in spatial and urban planning. I am now going to talk about what is going on today and very briefly. I said that as far as the settlement of Skalanio and Kingdom of the Municipality of Heraklion Crete is concerned, a request has already been made, precisely because it has been delayed. Currently, planning is not evolving. There are no contractors and no funding. Through the National Plan for Urban Planning, through local urban planning projects, which evolve throughout the country, covering around 80% of the territory, competitive processes will all have been completed this year. The Municipality of Heraklion and the settlements of Skalanio and Basilica, as well as the other settlements that lack such planning, will be in the first category of notices and declarations to make these plans. Money exceeds 250 million. It's from the funding of the Recovery and Resilience Fund. You know that time is suffocating and specific. By 2025 the projects must have been repaid. You know that the procedures are pressing and suffocating. And right now we are developing for both settlements of the Municipality of Heraklion: Immediately the competitive processes will proceed and soon they will have the necessary spatial and town planning. After the December law, Law 4759 to which you referred, which describes all the design procedures, which gives speed to all the processes, resolving all the bureaucratic processes of the past and following from our Ministry's side, we are here to complete a great bet for the first time. It's never been before. I know that, and we all know it. We are here to prove in practice that we can earn the lost time of the past in a short time, which is evolving from today, recognising, as you said, the needs for both society and the world of work, for the whole of society. Without investment, jobs are lost. We need to find the balance between investment and environmental protection. As a final goal, we're aiming for the workers to work. That's what they want so they can live their family, live with dignity. But all this is done through jobs that need to be shaped. It is our duty to give the opportunity to the other person who wants to invest, to create safely rather than with suffering and exclusion. We've lived many of those before. So, in closing, this is the message I would like to convey on the occasion of your question about Crete, Heraklion and the Skalani and Basilica settlement. This design that has been lacking for many years has been unsuccessful, has been deprived of rights and development and has, on the other hand, created distorted development and conflicts of activity and uses. You mentioned it yourself. That is what we want it to end, and that is what we want it to change. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too, Minister. The fourth question under number 619/29-3-2021 will be discussed in the fourth quarter of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "The necessary water management projects in Chania". The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Amyras, will answer. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor. Please be consistent in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u48	Thank you again. We're going to western Crete now. Chania Prefecture, Minister, lags behind basic water management projects, resulting in millions of cubic water being lost to the sea every year due to this lack of infrastructure. For example, we refer to the Tauronite basin and the Sebroniotis dams that will meet the water needs of the Prefecture of Chania - their study has been carried out since 1993 - as in the Valsamitis dam that operates in the lake in Platanos, which is the problem of corruption from over-indulgence, with a risk of destroying the land of high productivity, in the Asquis lakes, in the restoration - replacement of the lakes in Chrysoskalitis - there is a restoration study of the lake, which has not worked because of mistreated industries, even though it has cost millions of euros - as well as in Agios Theodores, in the highly irrigated area of Agios - Kolymbari and others. The construction of these projects will make a decisive contribution to ensuring the necessary water supplies for the inhabitants of Chania. In addition, the unexplored water potential could be exploited by the State itself for the construction of necessary hydroelectric projects, could help to increase the irrigation of the poorly irrigated areas today to support farmers who have a major problem in irrigating their crops, especially in Chrysoskalitissa, in the villages of the former Municipality of Inahori, in the region of Elafonissos, one of the most productive areas with greenhouse crops. However, the projects in question are not being implemented. The written answer given by the various ministers to our question does not cover us. Farmers are suffering and obviously all of this is part of a reasonable policy of privatising water and attacking people's incomes. So we ask you, Minister, what measures will the Government take to solve the problem of water shortages as a whole in the regional unity of Chania, by implementing the necessary water, irrigation, without compensation and financial burdens on small and medium-sized farmers and local households. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u49	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for being consistent in your time. Minister, I hope you're the same, because we have 20 more questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try. My dear colleague, Mr Synthrakis, has put a very important question, which is about water shortages and debris. This, of course, is not only true in Crete - he is well doing and tracking it there - but it is happening throughout Greece. These are issues that concern us and I think it is an opportunity to highlight the way in which we approach them and try to resolve them. First of all, you will clearly allow me to say that our action and our decisions are directed by Union law, European legislation. There is Directive 60/2000, which obliges each Member State to deal with these issues in relation to water resources, water systems and problems arising in holistic, scientific and administrative terms. The administrative section involves the Ministry of the Environment which performs an effective role and coordinates the co-responsible services of other ministries and the decentralised administrations. So let's go very specifically to talk about Chania. First of all, let us say that, with the first revision of river basin management plans, the so-called SDLAPs, there is also for the regional district of Crete, the aqueous apartment of Crete, quite clearly such a revision of this project. It must be said that the decision of the National Commission for Waters was fully reflected in the water potential, the ground floor, the basement and the surface of Crete. There are also a number of measures for these management plans. I will mention a few measures for Crete: demand management measures, individual construction projects and infrastructure restoration, water savings in all sectors and all uses. It is also mentioned as one of these measures which are very important, i.e. that ceilings on quantities necessary per acre and cultivation for private crops have been set in order to prevent over-exploitation and destructive effects. In Crete, as you know, there are too many greenhouses. For each new greenhouse and any installation of this form which is established there is an obligation to build omnipotent tanks, which will fill theoretically and practically exclusively from the roofs of the greenhouses. Existing greenhouse facilities may be used for the construction of such similar octaves. So I am now also coming to say that, according to written information we had from the Crete Water Department, the strategic plan for dealing with drought and water shortages for the aqueduct in Crete has been met after a decision by the Region of Crete. This is an important development. As also very important is that we are in these days that we are talking about and these weeks by May in the preparation of the National Operational Plan for drinking water. It is very important that all people have access to high-quality drinking water in sufficient quantity for human consumption based on national and Union networks. Here we have to stress that it is also true for Crete that the inclusion of proposed projects by the local authorities of Crete or the Municipal Businesses of Water and Irrigation in this project is a prerequisite for them to be funded for the next period of Operational Programmes 2021-2027. And, in conclusion, in this area of drinking water in the Region of Crete, six projects have been issued for inclusion and have been included, financed and implemented by seven other major projects. In my dentistry, my dear, my colleague, and Madam President, I shall mention the works separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u52	Minister, you know here, it's not just about intentions. I won't question anyone's intention. It is a question of how everything is judged. And the result gives rise to a question: Why are we not doing projects? It's a simple question. Why aren't projects done? I told you about the Tavronite dam, Sembroiotis, Papadians, etc. So this study was carried out in 1992 with a view to saving sixty - five million cubic metres of water. It was announced by Prime Ministers and Ministers, that studies were updated, that the funding of non-existent was matured. It has never been part of a financial programme. In fact, you say that it is a project of national level, especially and important, and it is in the planning of the Ministry of Infrastructure. So, you're gonna do it a little bit more so we can figure it out? At the same time, however, you are telling us that the project for tendering and funding has not been fully matured, that a new study needs to be carried out for the whole project. Meanwhile, more than a million cubic water ends up every year at sea because of a lack of these necessary works. At the same time, farmers have a major problem in irrigating their crops. And we are talking about this is a very large area of high productivity with greenhouses that require too much water. While two lakes of St. Theodoros and Chrysoscalitissa had been built in the 1990s by the Ministry of Agriculture in the 1990s. The first of Saints Theodoros was subsided in 2011 and thus lost all the water stored and left without water for at least a thousand acres of horticultural and tens of thousands of olive trees. For years they have been developing situations so that they can even be phased out of plans for the creation of plaster mines in the region. And the second case of Chrysoskalitis never worked, even though it cost 5 million euros, because of abuses. You say that there is a definitive technical study for rehabilitation and that the environmental impact study is under control. The question arises as follows: Where will it be financed? Has it been financed from Community resources and will it be financed again? Is he going to join a program? You should give specific answers and very specific timetables to them. For the Platanus Limnoxen, with a capacity of seven hundred and fifty thousand cubic, twenty years now we have the same story, promises and promises again. There is the problem of overindulging with the risk that thousands of acres of early horticulture will be destroyed. The land of high productivity is the Falasarna area in Chania. The study in the meantime says it is mature, but it does not go any further. Why? Regarding the restoration of the leakage of the Balsamiotis Dam, he is still at the outsourcing stage of the study by the OAS. I mean, turtle rate. Up to now it has cost more than 40m euros and has a real capacity of about one million cubic. In other words, after twenty years of preparation and studies, we managed to build a double-cost dam and one sixth of the capacity from the forecast. Limnoxen is emerging in Asquifos, the drilling in Meskla, the high-growth irrigation zone of Agia - Kolymbari, which will breathe the farmers of the mountainous and semi-region regions of the area. Minister, I return to the original question: Where are the projects? In fact, only one pond works in Chania Prefecture, the Kunturas. Of the six lakes built or constructed or made only one function. Why are they not being implemented? Let me tell you. Because the European Union does not have these projects, so that we can be clean. And they are not eligible, precisely because they are based on what you said, in the framework of the 2000 Community Water Framework Directive, with which we disagree, but you agree, which harmonizes Greek legislation as early as 2003, and prioritises the savings of water demand in conflict with the maximisation of supply in every aqueous apartment. Of course, the implementation of the common agricultural policies implemented in Greece, with the agreements of the World Trade Organisation on increasing imports of agricultural products and saying. We say it clearly that you or you will be with the people, with the farmers, with the inhabitants of the cities, with the countryside, etc. Or you'll be with the big business interests. As long as you're with the big business interests, you won't build dams, but absolutely nothing, vacuum in the air. There is therefore a need for a central economic planning, for there to be a central body for managing water resources in the country, always on the basis of the satisfaction of the people's needs and the great potential on the basis of the comparative advantages that our country has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Dear fellow Member, I will begin with the infrastructure in my response to the Tavronite, the dams you mentioned and the lakes. I will now speak to you about the Ministry of Infrastructure, later I will also speak to you about the Ministry of Rural Development and the projects that have been carried out and how much has been paid for in order to continue the work. By decision of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of the Ministry of Transport, the development of the water potential of the Tavronitis river in Chania, Crete, has been described as a national project, especially and important. For this reason, a research project was developed by the National Technical University of Metsovio in order to update the water utilization plan of the Tauroni basin. The Department of Technical Works of the Regional Unit of Chania was in fact a supervising service. The final receipt of the project took place at the end of 2020, almost three months ago. The Waters Directorate of Chania participated in the Joint Programming Contract Monitoring Committee and the next step is the preparation of tenders for the overall project planning, i.e. both of the dams you mentioned, the Sembroiotis Dam and the Papadian Dam, their interconnecting tunnel and the downstream irrigation network. It's a complex, very difficult project. It has technical difficulties that arise from the main plumbing study. However, our Government's effort is to support primary production, the local population and at the same time to protect the aquatic environment on the basis of sustainability. The Regional Unit of Chania is the project under delegation entitled "Study of the anti-military works of port tanker in the Koundoura position of the Municipality of Cantanos - Selinos budget of 2,5m euros". The contest's in progress. There, therefore, will be a new pond and the existing irrigation networks will be extended to areas which are either not currently irrigated or irrigated poorly, as will also be eight-monopoly demarcation and settlement, but also part of the Pelecaniotis torrentials. This is in relation to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the infrastructure. But there is, as I have said, the coordinating role of the Ministry of the Environment which leads us to the events of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Here, then, we will talk about the well-known PAA, the Rural Development Programme of the period 2014-2020, where they have joined and are moving directly, are in the process of repayment, the repayments of the following projects in the prefecture that had been unpaid: the Omalos Lake and the irrigation network of Chania Prefecture with a budget of 2,829,000 euros. Construction of Plugos with a budget of 2,5m euros. The same measure was introduced in July 2019 as a new project to irrigation networks of Central Apokoronas Chania with a budget of 2,752,000 euros. While in the National Public Investment Programme the Ministry of Rural Development has included the project to build the Balsamiotis Dam. However, there is also the Ministry of Interior, which has launched the following in the municipalities of Chania: First of all, the CFP, the Central Self-Resources, has allocated for 2020 to cover project and investment costs amounting to 2,600,000 euros. The exact same amount is scheduled to be allocated to the municipalities of Chania and during this year. For the lack of water, through the TAB grant programme for "Publication of work by the TATs of the country to deal with water shortages" - this is the title of the project and the measure - it is planned to finance any request, of course, if it is submitted by the TATs of Chania. From 2017 until today, the municipalities of Chania have been allocated a total amount of 2,880,000 euros to deal with water shortages. However, we also have the other financial instrument "Philodimo" as well as the Antonis Tritsis programme. With the "PHILADIMOS" programme, therefore, the municipalities of Chania were financed with a total amount of EUR 2,734,000 for balanced development and improvement of their infrastructure. Also to the "PHILDIMO" for environmental protection - a sub-measure I say to you - an invitation from the Interior Minister of a total of EUR 15 million was issued to update the water safety plans. Also, to conclude, I would like to tell you that the Municipal Site of the North Axis of Chania has submitted a request for funding titled "Building a general water plan, a water security plan for the North Axis of Platania" of 59 thousand euros. Thank you, Mr Synonymakis, for the question and I am delighted to inform you of what you are asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the fifth under the number 608/28-32021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The hunt and poisoned baits has been checked." You will also respond to the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Amyras. You have the floor, Mr Colleague, for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, this is a huge issue with poison baits. Recently, only the last two months, we lost in Lailia Serres two Golden Years and two Wolves and in the heart of the National Park of Dadia two Black Vultures, one Special Year and one Wild Cat. That is why seven environmental organisations together are asking you to take urgent measures to stop this phenomenon. Let me remind you that in the last ten years we have lost a hundred vultures, twelve blackworms, seven Egyptian vultures, ten golden years, nine wolves, ten bears. There are species that have locally disappeared from poison baits. That is why the organizations that are very experienced in the matter from "Ornithological" to "Arcturos", "Kalisto", "WWF, Anima, the Museum of Natural History, the Hellenic Society of Nature Protection, ask that very specific measures be taken and I invited you here to reply to this request which is reasonable. The second question is what is going on with the Treasury? We have a Treasury which was given the hunting federations in 2000. In other words, we have a verifier and in a direct relationship, paid by the controller. And here we have this: not only was the right to build a private Treasury in the federations - and this is a Treasury that we now have - but it is financed from national funds, that is to say, from part of the amount allocated to the licenses for hunting. And, of course, we have few cases where hunters have been convicted of poaching with few fines. That's why I'm asking you to create a public corps. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, Mr President, because, in the timely question you have put to me, you refer to the question of the hunting of the wild boar, I would like to answer it, so that it does not remain in the Minutes. You say that we closed the eye to the hunters and told them: 'Go hunt for a wild pig'. But you don't mention the cause and surprise me. Do you not know that cases of African swine fever have occurred in Bulgaria at a very close distance from Greece, at a distance of one and a half kilometres from the border? We did allow the workshops to hunt wild boars in the three regional units, Rhodope, Xanthi and Evros. But we did, because we need to protect public health, we need to protect the livestock in Greece. There's a serious illness problem. The outbreak was found on December 31, 2020 - very recently - in the province of Haskovo in the village of Jeneralov, which is just one and a half kilometres away from the river Evros. So please take this into account. Now we're going to the issue of poison baits. This is a very important issue and there have been too many difficulties in dealing with it for fifteen, twenty years. Unfortunately, there are some - there is an anthropogenic activity - who go and poison baits to unleash vultures or big game. That's incomprehensible! So we don't sit with our hands crossed. There is a very clear ministerial decision that says what the state does, what local government does, what bodies do when a poisoned bait is found or when it is found, unfortunately, an animal or a bird poisoned and dead by bait. This ministerial decision says that a local action plan should be drawn up or broader if there are repeated cases of poisoning. But we don't just live there. In fact, just last Friday we had a meeting with the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Lebanon - I visited him at his Ministry - to discuss many issues. One of these was how the simple ministerial decision will make greater - to say that - dimensions will become a joint ministerial decision so that it will be involved, apart from the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Development that is involved, and the Ministry of Civil Protection. What will this new direction include? It will include the preparation of national and local action plans in the event of the poisoning of people of wild fauna, the creation of a database to record controls, sanctions, etc. and what is needed, of course, within the framework of the hunting legislation and will cover expenditure on the dispatch of samples in the case of poisoning in veterinary laboratories. You will be aware that today good faith of researchers and laboratories, especially at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, is taking place, sampling and toxicological analyses and all that they need. We are now systemifying them. We find the funds to cover these costs, as it is a matter of great concern to us. In addition, he's getting into the game - let me have the expression - and the Natural Environment and Climate Change Agency, the FYPEKA. In the action plan under way, which has been presented to me, there are major interventions to shield, if possible, the wildlife areas, habitats and habitats. In fact - and in recent days, I have been discussing them with the administration of FYPEKA, Mr Triantine and Mrs Papadopoulos, director and chairman of the agency respectively - they have been in contact with the institutions of protected areas, so that they can afford, of course, the costs of FYPEKA and, of course, the Ministry, in essence, trained dogs, the number, in sensitive areas, so that we can speed up controls and prevention. Mostly our prevention is of interest, because the work they will do is to prevent, to find the trained dogs first before they eat them wildlife. That's all for now. The rest in my dentistry. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, you do not answer what you will do and what you will do with the subsecution of the Center for Veterinary Institutions in Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u61	We did not open this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u62	Yeah, look, it's in the context of dealing with the issue. If there are no workers there who can carry out the processing of the incidents, the investigation of the incidents of illegal baits, then what you are announcing is not going to work. But I'm afraid your government has an allergy to the single intake and staffing. That is why I would like to point out to you whether or not a commitment is made here. Now, you referred to the wild boar issue. It is indeed a big issue in Greece. With the unattractive release of wild boars and hybrids in the context of hunting, a wild boar hybrid has been created in Greece and this is a huge problem. The point is, you're giving the hunters permission to kill them. I'm not at all sure if you've examined all the other alternatives. I'm afraid you haven't examined the other alternatives and what else you could have done. But I come to the question of our debate now, because this matter could be a special time-consuming one. When the hunters come out to hunt the wild boars you give them permission to kill, what else is killed? Who controls it? Does the Treasury control it? Because it's a private body - if possible! -, does it belong to the hunting federations and have the feds decided to shut it down for a month and a half November - December 2020? Who controls what's going on there in nature while we're all locked up in our homes? Who controls what happens in forests and protected areas? That is why we are calling again and again for the creation of a public Treasury, a guardian of the essence of the protected areas that will have the power to intervene on poison baits, for illegal logging, for policing and illegal killing of wild animals, illegal fishing for inland waters, pollution and pollution and so on. These are the proposals that are coming from the organisations and that are reasonable. So I ask you to be very express in your answers to dentistry, and on the issue of what you will do with the Treasury, this incomprehensible that we have to have in private Treasury! You're going to set up a public Treasury? And finally who controls what is going on between quarantine in forests and protected areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u63	Me too, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Madam President. My dear colleague and I would suggest that you be a little more involved when you ask me a few questions. You say that we allowed hunters to hunt wild boars, despite the fact that you did not mention at first the cause, the need to deal with African swine fever. Well, hunters don't go to the dolls like that, and they're hitting on the air or where they see a bush moving. Don't you know these are prosecution crews? The prosecution crews are something different. They are made up of people from the Veterinary Agency and also the Forest Service, other than hunters. So, what are you asking me? The composition of these workshops itself, I think, gives you the answer. Now we're going to the rest of the issues. I'm leaving the Treasury lately. You asked me eight questions. I do not want to leave anything unanswered, Madam President, because it is filed. It does not seem to me that I have not responded because in one of the previous times, Mr Arseni, you have done something which I do not think is honouring you. You asked me fourteen questions. I responded to a dozen. I did not have time to reply to the rest, and then you go out and say, "Oh, Amyras did not answer, the State Secretary does not answer, he does not give us any answers". So listen to the answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u65	Mr Minister, if I may, it is well known to all Members that the questions tabled must have only up to two questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u66	That is precisely the case, Madam President, but unfortunately not the honourable Members, and then they say to you: 'Ah, you have not answered the two of the fourteen questions I have raised'. In any case, first of all, I should like to tell you about the penalties. With the new Codes, and the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, the trespasses and courts that controlled and dealt with these penal cases were abolished. This new presumption does not leave us indifferent, but it obliges us, in particular, the Directorate-General for Forests and Forestry, to reform - and that is where we will also work - the specific framework for the penalties for former policies - to say so - the offences of the Forest Code. We won't sit with crossed hands. The vacuum created will cover it, especially in the case of poisoning, poisoning baits and other forms of violence against the members of the wildlife. Let me tell you about education - I will leave the Treasury at the end - that, yes, of course, we are working and working out and we are looking to find - and we will find them - the funds for education and training seminars for forest workers. We have already found ourselves, but because of the COVID pandemic some practical problems have been created. We expect to leave COVID as well as vaccination, and of course we will proceed to education and seminars for all those involved, linked to the question of the preservation of the ecosystems of the protected areas. For vultures - because you also ask me about vultures - we have drafted and is almost a draft ministerial decision on the subject: "National action plan for the faecal species of orphan species". Who? The vulture, the vulture and the black and white in Greece. Our aim is to increase the protection measures and preventive measures for areas and their habitats, so that - this is the aim of this national plan which I mention - plus the help of all the forces that we will be involved in this national plan, to reach the populations of these vultures and vultures before their collapse, that is, the 1990-2000 period. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Let's go to the Treasury now, and I'll be brief, Madam President. First of all, the Treasury didn't come down from the moon. Forestry legislation provides for it, the law provides for it. They don't do anything illegal. Secondly, it seems to me that you do not know that in all these years of operation of the Treasury they have confirmed thousands of fines. They do their job, they do it very well. If they want support, they'll have it. If we want to broaden the composition of those who are taking part in the pregnancies, of course we are also considering this. Who does the Treasury pay for? It is financed from the revenues of hunting organisations and federations from licences. These must also cover payroll, but also the equipment and all the means required by the guards, always all this under the supervision - and I stress it - of forestry services. In conclusion, I would remind you that we have spoken here and asked you whether you would have supported - and you said 'yes' and it is very positive - a provision which we will bring, by giving inquiries, namely the possibility of obtaining a fine, to the guards, to the people who exercise custody, to the former management bodies of protected areas and to existing management units of protected areas under the umbrella of FYROM. We will do so, we will broaden it, since the GPS of our own policy is biodiversity and its protection. These are the orders from the Prime Minister too. That's something we live, we feel, we believe and we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u67	Madam President, two questions very briefly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u68	The question is over, Mr President. You can't ask a question. The debate is over, you know that very well. You can't answer. Now we go to the twelfth with number 615/29-3-2021, a topical question from the First Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Television Megalopolis". The question will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Amyras. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Madam President. I wish you success in your new duties by heart. Minister, since you are interested in biodiversity and the Prime Minister has given you such orders, I would like to believe that you will also have in mind what is happening in Megalopolis. Televishing and natural gas. For district heating, half the people in Megalopolis, were spent 20 million and in 2014 another 15 million were signed. You, as government, on September 26, 2019 and December 15, 2019, say that the project will proceed. And that's where the magic happened again. We've responded to the work. Your government said it was gonna be okay and we answered it. So we lost 20 million, they go! The other 15, we'll see that they're lost, and we'll put them somewhere else. And it appears - for your Government that is interested in Greek biodiversity and transparency - that a private person, in the presence of government officials, should take over before RAE gives him approval. It goes out then - and you will tell me that 'all right, you're from another party' - the district manager, Mr. Nikas, and make statements on the contractor's point. But the sovereign, Minister, is that you yourself, your Government, Mr Mousouroulis, says that natural gas - and I will testify - will increase the cost of district heating by 50 euros. I say 100 euros. I'll submit it to the Minutes. We are proposing a solution with the fourth unit. But that's what you've put privately into. I don't know why you're not listening. I don't know what this private guy is. We want them to do so privately, we do not have such issues, but I understand that what is happening in Megalopolis will only be profitable, because all the networks will be destroyed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What about the worst, Minister? I read you from Sunday's 'KATHMERINI', to conclude, that the gas pipeline in western Macedonia was cut off from the Recovery Fund. Why? It says that the Commission does not recognise natural gas as a clean fuel. Tell me, Minister, you are interested in biodiversity, environmental protection, transparency, what has happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u70	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr Constantinople, first of all, let us see on what basis we are discussing. No one can argue that our country's dependence on lignite must be stopped. It's a dirty fuel, a mineral. It burdens the environment, the quality of life, it reduces ecosystems. That is why we have advanced the country's defoliation process very quickly, and not only are we carrying out this important task, but we are aiming to close all the active lignite power plants by 2023, in two years' time. We have made a commitment and kept it up to antenna that our attention will be directed at the regions and the inhabitants of western Macedonia and Megalopolis, since we must, as a state, allow them to go to a new law, another form of transitional production model. So, in the city of Megalopolis, yes, indeed, district heating started in 2007, covering seventy-seven-seven consumers with the heated surface amounting to ninety thousand square meters and the distribution network covering about 30% of the city. According to current national energy planning, the choice of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, our strategic choice, is to promote actions such as projects relating to the expansion of existing gas distribution, but also to the construction of new gas distribution networks as an intermediate situation, without any consumer being imposed at all. The problem, therefore, of a lack of adequate technical load for the uninterrupted operation of televignettes has been recognised from the outset as one of the main topics to be addressed and resolved during a fair development transition. So, in this context, solutions have been activated and are already being implemented to meet the heating needs of the inhabitants not only Megalopolis, but also Kozani, Ptolemaida, Amyntheus and Florinas. For Megalopolis, to become even more specific, a memorandum of understanding and strategic cooperation was drawn up for the development of a network of gas and low pressures throughout the city by 30 September 2022 to meet the needs of buildings connected with the existing district heating system and the buildings of new consumers who will seek to connect to the natural gas network. In order to implement this project, funding from the 2014-2020 programming period has been provided with the possibility of additional use of other financial resources, if required, by the most specific eligibility and funding rules, in order to cover the maximum co-financing rate the replacement of existing natural gas heating systems. If the proposed investment is not covered by the amount of the grant for all the necessary measures, there will be additional financing. Mr. Constantinople, I will respond to my second-guess about the alternative scenarios after the ESRB has resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u73	Mr Minister, however, biodiversity or you do not want it or the Commission. Something is happening, because the Commission tells you what I read before, that where they are connected with natural gas the Commission does not recognise natural gas as a clean fuel. Finally, who wants biodiversity? I heard this: Natural gas will be an intermediate solution. Minister, we have proposed that you create a co-production of high-efficiency electricity and heat, the well-known STHYS. You did not accept it because there is a contractor to whom we must give him the work, who made a memorandum with the Municipality of Megalopolis before RAE gave permission. It's never happened before. I'm telling you, Minister, the city's memorandum of cooperation took place before he got permission. I ask you: What prevented you from doing NATURA and not losing 20 million and 15 million, a total of 35 million, and not paying the citizen? You say this, Mr Mousouroulis' report, that it will be more expensive by 100%. I'm telling you it's 200%. And you end up telling me today that we're going to shut down the units. All right, we'll shut them down. Or units or contractor? Let's go tell you the new news they probably haven't had time to tell you. Do you know what Mr. Nicky says about the contractor and the outdated ones? He says: "I in any city that gives private money I don't give money from the NSRF". I am also making this statement. These are mornings fresh cookies. It is a statement by the district minister, who is not one's republic. He is a regional ruler who has been very strongly supported by the New Democracy. [[At this point, the Member and the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] I, Minister, do not understand anything, I really do not understand it: and yes, we have said the proposals, all right, you have made a political decision. I don't understand why we should definitely go either with the lignite or the contractor. I don't get it. And I don't understand what "KATHMERINA" says, what it brought to publicity and says: "Did you know where you're going to end up? You should baptize the natural gas 'teleheating''. The only winner who is? Because if you were to tell me, as in western Macedonia, at least the cost is reduced to the consumer - that is what the Musurouli report says - I would say that it does not go to God, lowers costs. And thirdly, Minister, do not tell you that it will be free of charge, EUR 640 will be the connection fee. Minister, now as the State Secretary, you have been sent to answer a question, I understand that it is within your parliamentary duties and all that. Help us not to lose so much money while there can be other procedures while your own government has incorporated the project. I mean, I don't understand how you were in favour of moving on until 2019 and after three months you changed it. You guys were on a schedule, weren't you? Did I change it? Your ministers didn't testify? I conclude, because I am interested in being in the interest of the people of Megalopolis. After taking this decision as a country to move forward - because I believe that when a government does something, it is doing it as a country, and that results in what is created from there and beyond us all - we need to find a solution that will be for the benefit of the citizens, the environment and the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u74	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I should like to emphasise and clarify the fact that the government has provided for the fact that there is no financial burden on consumers, on the part of the citizens during the transition. As regards the supply of heat from the district heating network to the operation of the natural gas network and the supply of gas to consumers, there will be no charge on the existing consumers of the district heating system at the cost of supply, installation of the necessary equipment, that is to say, the airline, or all the necessary components for safe operation. There is also provision for a consumer subsidy project to replace existing natural gas heating systems. Furthermore, in the Megalopolis Municipality, the Municipal Television Company Megalopolis, PPC and the Technical Company EDIL HELLAS expressly state that the latter, i.e. the company, will not impose connection fees on the city's consumers for both the heating customers and the existing buildings of the new consumers, from any point on which they are asked to connect. So there's no charge at all. What you said may have reached you as information, but it has not been checked in its detail. Now, with regard to the financing of projects, I would firstly mention that in order to replace the use of lignite with a more environmentally friendly fuel to meet the heating needs of the inhabitants of the region, RAE, by a decision of 1478/2020 - you know it - has granted a gas distribution permit to HENGAS to the Municipality of Megalopolis. Indeed, you're right. Natural gas infrastructure is not eligible by the Commission for funding under the Fair Transition Fund. That's right. However, they are eligible, as are the district heating projects, from the second pillar of the Fair Development Goal Mechanism, ‘Invest EU’. Furthermore, these infrastructures are eligible under the European Regional Development Fund - ERDF - for the period 2021-2027, if two conditions are met. I'm not going to be an analyst now. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] A key priority of the Coordinating Committee of the Fair Development Plan was to ensure that people's heating needs were met. This is the first, not without. Working with the stakeholders, with local authorities, we think - and we are sure of this - that we have gone ahead with solid sustainable solutions. Through a documented recommendation from the Coordinating Committee, on 18 March last year, at its third meeting, the Committee decided to draw up a separate Programme of Fair Development for the 2021-2027 programming period, in which the territorial plans will be incorporated - which is important - a fair transition to Kozani, Florinas and the Municipality of Megalopolis, as well as to the territorial plan of the Aegean Islands and Crete. In addition, with a view to the fuller preparation of the Territorial Plans, the Technical Secretariat of the Fair Development Plan with the support of a group of consultants approached their content, in accordance with the regulatory conditions and having regard to all the above. So, in order not to be long, the approved five-year programme for the development of HENGAS included in its licence provides for the installation of two low-pressure regulator stations for the supply of the city of Megalopolis. This company will spend - and this is its investment plan -8.661 000 euros. Two thousand four hundred household, commercial and industrial consumers are gradually expected to be connected. So, on the basis of the above, I think, my dear fellow Member, it is understood that there is an excellent investment project under way with secure resources, covering all the needs of the people of Megalopolis for heating and hot water in a more environmentally friendly way. Thank you very much. And since I was speaking about millions, in reply to Mr Syntagakis, allow me, Madam President, to make a correction. Speaking of a project of the Municipal Water Corporation in the Municipality of Platania, instead of saying 59 thousand I said 59 million. I would therefore ask that we correct this in the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u76	It will be corrected, Minister. Thank you very much. And the last question, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Amyras, is the fourth with number 83/23-11-2020 question of the cycle of petitions by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Reflecting the interruption of electricity in shops and enterprises which have been closed by a government decision'. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, during the crisis, we have not only health problems, but also economic and social problems. Moreover, problems are experienced by enterprises and workers who have been closed down from the outset or closed in the Lockdowns periods. A phenomenon that we saw exists mainly in November at the time of the government's decision was the cessation of electricity, due to debts, as the providers have justified, following complaints by clubs, chambers and professionals. Moreover, there were also holidays in households and houses, even for unemployed people who had not been able to find a job or for vulnerable groups. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] After the adoption of the PPC decision on dealing with the problems, what we are asking the Government today is for as long as the restrictive measures take to ban the loss of electricity without informing and informing the owner, even if the accounts are high. This is because the electricity stores maintain some facilities and the power shutdown can result in more general damage to the operation of shops, technology equipment or products stored in freezers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We call for an effective settlement of debts, a sustainable and unbiased settlement of debts, because with opening up, whenever this happens, companies and professionals will find themselves in a mountainous position, one of which will be the obligations of PPC. Of course, we need to see how the problem is dealt with by the PPC notifications and by very small amounts. I mean the nuisances. We have annoyed by a law firm - a partner of PPC who has taken over this work and has to do so, but for very small amounts of the order of the few euros, when the payrollers, i.e. the total amount, are too great and there are such inconveniences. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u78	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Kegeroglu, the government since the beginning of this unprecedented health crisis has supported with all its forces the society, the businesses and the workers. Constantly, we are trying to keep the real economy up, so that we can deal with the consequences as best as possible. The level of support measures has reached nearly EUR 40 billion. Within 2020, the Greek Government made available EUR 24 billion and added EUR 14 billion this year. For all businesses and shops that remain closed with a government mandate, of course, there is a safety net, a safety net which, for example, is the payment by the state of both their workers and their insurance contributions. The fact is that there are no new obligations to taxi and insurance funds, as it is understandable that companies do not have a turnover. Should we talk about past public debt arrangements? All of them have been frozen for as long as the health crisis lasts. Business loan instalments have also been suspended, and with the reopening of business the "GEYRA 2" programme for subsidising debt payments to credit institutions begins. For those months remaining closed the shops do not pay municipal fees. These days we're talking, there's a seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven. All of this to you, to see the security grid which the Greek Government and the Greek state have made sure to spread around the closed companies and workers in them. So no one's left in his luck. In fact, a few days ago, Prime Minister Mitsotakis announced a targeted support, the €330 million, in the focus sector that has indeed received a huge blow. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] So you ask me now about PPC initiatives and I answer you immediately. PPC has taken exceptional measures since the beginning of the pandemic to limit the problem. In the first quarter of the year, it has already formed new stable products with major discounts for consumers and entrepreneurs. Since October 2019, for those consumers, customers who have an objective difficulty in paying their accounts have implemented a very simple settlement system for late payment, in favourable terms, lower advances and a large number of instalments. However, in any event, the settlement of debts and the conditions accompanying them are constantly being reviewed. So nothing is yet absolutely given and final. Depending on the development of the pandemic, depending on the economic data of the country, sectors and businesses, PPC adapts its arrangements. Apart from this fixed settlement system, however, regarding the interruption of the electricity you set, PPC is required and takes into account the historicality of customer payments and special circumstances in each case. As for closed companies and as long as they remain out of business, the current accounts obviously relate to the fixed assets and only to the companies for most of them. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, Mr Amyras referred to a wide range of measures to deal with business. The question was more specific. Of course, what has to do with the question is legislation which has been implemented, but which has not been implemented, to cover the operational costs of companies. This is of value and related to the question, to see how it will be implemented. It is an important measure if it actually includes the basic operating costs of an undertaking which is of course affected by the pandemic. This has not yet started to apply. That's why I'd like you to be more specific. There are companies that have not been within those that have been significantly strengthened to say that, since they have been strengthened, they must meet their needs from there. I will tell you cases that unfortunately have very large accounts due to the size of a large one, such as gyms. The gyms have huge surfaces. In fact, therefore, they have many high fixeds and lighting charges, various. I am not sure that I have a reservation, Minister, if all the local fees are exempted, and indeed all the companies. I think that's not the case, but I'm holding a reservation on what you said. I would therefore like you to be more specific, that, until the end of the restrictive measures, neither PPC nor other providers should make a power cut, and even unwarranted, because this poses the risk of damage, damage and loss of other elements of the company. In other words, there must definitely be communication and consultation with the owner on any action which is relevant to the problem of electricity supply and the interruption. Sustainable regulation is very important, because the viability of the arrangements will depend on PPC and, of course, on other companies. I think it is very important that this care should also be taken so that we have effective, sustainable arrangements that will enable people affected by the pandemic to pay longer, and in any event until the support programme is implemented with the cover of basic operating costs. In other words, there must be an intermediary with a brave arrangement not to accumulate problems that will make the opening impossible, even if permitted by the health conditions, because of economic conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u82	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Kegeroglu, clearly the Greek government is above the problems of the people of business, workers and will not leave anyone behind alone. In relation to the power supply, I must say that there is the Electricity Supply Code, Article 39, paragraph 9. I answer your last question very specifically. On the basis of this article, it is laid down that customers who are likely to be in difficulty or incapable of paying bills - PPC - may - and this is our direction and directive - provide - special programs to regulate the payment of accounts or the settlement of earlier debts, in particular through instalments. In addition, the supplier may provide for payment of the consumer account in instalments on the basis of specific conditions which may be agreed in the contract between the two parties and may as a minimum determine the number of periodic payments and their frequency, but even the rate applied may be lower so that the customer can withstand it. These are our instructions, as a government policy. At the same time, again on the basis of this Code, as I told you, the Code of Electricity supply to Customers, in the calculation of the total percentage charge on the amount of the consumption account, due to its payment in instalments, it is laid down that the repayment deadline begins on the date of its dispatch and cannot be less than twenty days for small customers. I would like to say that there is room for the agreement between the two sides, the client and the provider, on the basis of this regulatory framework, not to be found with the back on the canvass, on the ropes in business and, therefore, through them, by workers in these businesses. It should be noted that measures on social protection and energy poverty are laid down by decisions of the Minister responsible, namely the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Screka. So the company is called upon and will implement and implement every time the legislation that we and the supervisory authorities are giving. Therefore, realism is needed. No one can claim that the State has the possibility of fully covering the serious financial consequences of the pandemic. But, of course, it may argue that for the first time in recent decades the government has not created, but has done so, created a safety and security net, providing almost EUR 40 billion in a year to support workers and businesses. Be sure, my dear fellow Member, that business support measures will continue even after the end of the health crisis, so that nobody will stay behind - as I said before - and the Greek society will come out of this sanitary world nightmare as unspeakable as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u84	Thank you. We continue with the cycle of the Ministry of Labour. Mr. Chacloglu will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u85	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u86	I'm sorry, Mr. Kegeroglu! What kind of omission was that? I'm sorry! We will continue with Mr. Kegeroglu, from Crete at all times. The eighteenth Question No 625/29-3-2021 will be discussed in the eighth session of the President of Heraklion, Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of: ‘A oilseed promotion plan and specific support measures for olive producers’. Mr. John Economou will answer. Here, Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Mr Amyras for the previous answer, but I too would like to stress that the problems will begin immediately after the end of the health crisis and will be the next day. Therefore, a broader plan is needed to support entrepreneurship. So I come in this context with the question concerning the support of olive production and the producers of olive oil, to remind you first of all that the problems caused by the coronary have appeared since last year. This year, they intensified because, at least in Crete, half the quantities are indisposed, although typically these days end the commercial period and on the basis of the data from previous decades, the largest quantity in the years where we had no stock accumulation was allocated or agreed in order to be made available. So we have a problem with the coronary, with the closed shops, which has to do with the overall problem of the entrepreneurship and the consumption caused by the pandemic. I think that two things need to be done and that is what we are asking for with our question. First of all, to restore them in relation to the aid given to the first phase and the problems encountered by mainstream farmers, although they were typically beneficiaries, for some bureaucratic reasons they did not take, but to see what has been done and the commitment of the Minister given to me on 19 February, that they will consider the possibility of finding the corresponding resources in order to support the olive producers in general, whether or not they are chief farmers, because they considered it unfair. I am referring to the new Minister, Mr Lebanese. And, of course, the main question is to see what government planning is to promote olive oil, if, as a result of this problem, there are additional measures to promote it on the markets and, of course, on the internal market. Let us see the possibility for this year of supplying the system and the European Aid Fund for the most deprived with quantities of olive oil and other olive products that can be made available through the programme to vulnerable groups. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u88	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. The Ministry of Rural Development and Food has made it clear from the very beginning that all the policies we are implementing are on the basis of a particular philosophy. We are planning strategies and we are implementing consistent policies and programmes aimed at strengthening and strengthening the primary sector, strengthening and strengthening the three-fold resilience, competitiveness and extroversion. What does that mean? This means that our approach first means that we address the requirements and needs created by the various disasters and crises and affect agricultural exploitation and income, then consistently respond to the chronic structural weaknesses and diseases that keep the Greek farmer behind, and of course plan interventions and changes that will enable the primary sector to have a dynamic presence in the effort to strengthen and restructure our country's productive model. Your question, Mr Kegeroglu, concerns the first part of this strategy, namely to address the consequences of pandemic in the primary sector. You know very well - and because of your origin and your sensitivity which has often emerged from parliamentary control - that the olive oil industry is one of the most dynamics of the Greek economy with enormous potential. It's a branch we know about around the world about. From this alone, it is clear that support for the whole olive oil chain - production, processing, processing, marketing - in order to alleviate the economic consequences of the pandemic is our priority, has been our priority. A series of interventions has shown this in the past. Such intervention was the activation of the measure ‘2.1’, exceptional temporary support to farmers in the areas affected, in particular the effects of the COVID -19 pandemic, and the measure in question was used for the first time. It was chosen to support the olive oil sector. The total co-financed aid planned was granted to the beneficiaries. It amounted to 126 million euros. In fact, some of the problems you are saying have been observed, namely, there have been people who have been entitled, because of certain failures in submitting the declarations, who have been unable to benefit from this measure. We are keeping the commitment that Mr Lebanese has given you in order to see where we will find resources to restore this injustice. Also, in the context of dealing with the adverse effects of the pandemic, a number of amendments to Regulations and measures have been proposed and accepted by the European Union which facilitate those producers to take part in various measures under the Rural Development Programme. They are facilitated by this juncture. Very concise measures such as this are: the legalisation of the unpaid and duty-free aid they receive, the extension of the deadlines for those who implement such programmes at any stage, the reduction or removal of the minimum percentage on the overall approved budget, the increase in the number of requests for payment, the increase in the rate of payment of advance payments to beneficiaries for the implementation of the programmes. In the case of large-scale investments, such as the processing of agricultural products, the possibility of decommissioning the amounts committed to their implementation is allowed to be directed towards the provision of emergency needs, such as those arising, in particular, from operators, farmers, producers and processors in the olive oil sector. At the same time, it is well known - it has also referred to a previous question - that the government has taken a number of actions and undertakings to support the entire Greek society, the Greek market, and therefore the oil producers in the context of the back-up cycles. Near 200 million have been channelled to the primary sector and to olive growers throughout the olive oil value chain. It is therefore clear from all that I have said to you and from what the world has seen as policies that we choose to really stand on the side of every citizen and, by extension, every oil producer with measures to support the exploitation and incomes of his direct and indirect measures, which respond to the needs that have arisen and at the same time leave no one behind, measures which are always complemented by the country's budgetary endurance limits. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, you and Mr Amyras have also referred to the general framework of the programmes. I don't want to tell you. Mr. Staruras is the most competent. But since you mentioned, friendlyly, that there is a tendency from the government to say "we did everything, we gave everything we needed and we have fulfilled our debt". I'm saying this briefly. If that is the government's motto, I have to tell you that it is completely negative in the sense that if you did what you could, because that was where your hand went, if you have exhausted all the financial possibilities and still have tragic problems - and others will emerge after the treatment of the health care is completed - then things are not good at all. Let us also say "at any rate, we have made an effort, but we have to do more". It's about Mr. Stakoura, of course. I am commenting on this because you too have reiterated it. So I will tell you that while the olive oil industry as a whole has been hit, the government has chosen to support only the main-professional farmers. As a matter of priority, of course. We accept that and it was necessary because the main industrial farmers may not have any other resource, neither they nor members of their family, so that was right. But the rest of the world is not shipowners and wealthy, Mr. Economou. The remaining producers of oilseeds, which is the large majority, are also professionals who have been damaged and who have received a large amount of aid. They are unemployed, for example, seasonal workers in tourism or guides to tourist buses - then Mr Vardakis has a relevant question to Mr Tsakloglou - who, because they are insured in IKA, are not entitled to go to the main occupation of farmers. But they haven't seen a job since October 2019. They have no income. Therefore, there is a great category of extremists - the unemployed, the unemployed - who have been hit irreparably. They haven't been supported. The seasonal worker in tourism who cannot be classified as a principal farmer, who has not completed fifty trademarks this year, has neither an income nor an unemployment benefit and have taken him out of the support programme as an oil producer. It is not, that is, things as they appear in the paper'shippers are, so they do not need to.' They are neither shipowners nor big businessmen. To cultivate, you have to have a little bit of time and need. And these are small businessmen, self-employed, workers and unemployed, as I told you. But they can't get the characterization because of bureaucracy because they're insured in IKA, typically, if they had a job.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Colleague, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u93	I shall conclude, Mr President. I want you to tell me if the Minister's commitment was really to these people. In other words, the people who have not received support from the programme you have rightly implemented. What about them? We're gonna find a linen to support them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u95	And, of course, what you have avoided from saying, whether you will see to it that the Ministry of Rural Development has financed quantities of olive oil and other olive products for vulnerable groups, the poor and the helpless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Questions are of great interest, but they must be completed. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to make it clear that no one in the government has ever claimed that when you have an economy that is affected, in the way it is affected - not only in Greece, but throughout the world - whatever you do is enough or you do everything. On the other hand, I don't think there will be any time in the past when the government has supported so generously, so massively, with so consistently and over a period of time the whole affected economy, with so much money not leaving anyone behind, leaving no one out. The results of this policy seem to be and are justified in part, in how indicators are shaped at a better level than forecasts but also in relation to the rest of Europe. Obviously, no one rejoices, obviously and we are in front of an unprecedented crisis, there are people who are being tried, people who are going through too hard. On the other hand, however, no one can deny that, in the context of the possibilities, the Greek economy, the Greek society, is founded. It's based on many ways. It's not just the immediate ones we give. Let us not forget that there are hundreds of thousands of citizens who, because of their inability to pay taxes, do not pay insurance contributions. However, the government continues to pay wages and pensions and everything else. We therefore fully understand the unfavourable situation that Greeks and Greek producers are facing as a whole, and I have talked to you about the measures and initiatives that we have taken and which are also working as a counterweight and a pillow in this crisis. In addition, when this is such an important and decisive product for our exports, such as olive oil, in addition to the measures necessary to support it, because of the pandemic we should, as you rightly pointed out, plan and implement interventions that strengthen its extroversion and encourage investment throughout the whole of its value chain. We are keeping the useful and substantial proposals and we will examine them. You have been answered by the Minister himself in your previous question. What I want to bring to the debate today is to say that, as far as the part of the support for extroversion is concerned, we are implementing programmes of over EUR 42 million, for a number of products and for olive oil, in order to support its extroversion, the actions of the producer groups, the producers of processing businesses, we are able to increase the performance we already have. For example, to the countries of the European Union, in the ninth month, in 2020, the amount amounts to 400 million, is 9.54% of all agricultural exports and about 100 million and respectively 4,15% respectively as far as third countries are concerned. As far as investment is concerned, there are still a number of very substantial interventions under the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme. I am referring to indicative investments in farms. Under this sub-measure, which has already been declared and applied, support shall be given to farms turning towards quality agricultural products. It is primarily about the sector that we are discussing. Investments in processing and marketing: in the context of actions which have also been launched and implemented, support is given to small and micro-enterprises with a view to increasing the value of their products. Also, not to underestimate and forget that we have activated through the European Investment Fund, the Rural Development Guarantee Fund, which is expected to lever with funds of 480 million in favour of loans from the banks. In conclusion, I would like to make the following point that I am sure you are aware of. Obviously, we all want the heterogeneous professionals to get the relevant support. The heterogeneous, of course, receive a vast majority of the aid from the government's general policies. However, most of the measures we can channel to support the productive potential we are pushing towards the primary sector must comply with regulations and commitments agreed at European Union level and, unfortunately, such weaknesses are observed there. To conclude, Mr Kegeroglu, I would like to make it clear that our policy is a policy that we are protecting, shielding, promoting our products and our producers. We highlight the possibilities of the Greek agricultural sector and promote practices and policies with multiplier benefits for the Greek farmer. In order to achieve this we do exactly what I have said, we choose to make good use of the financial tools and the Rural Development Programme and the Recovery Fund, planning and implementing measures that are faced with chronic pathogens and distortions and which support this very difficult situation our country's productive potential and which will certainly improve the competitiveness of the producer, giving it added value to the product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u98	Thank you. Mr. Economou, don't forget about the Bytina. You've forgotten, next week I'll bring it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u99	We haven't forgotten.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u100	Okay, I'm just reminding you to go to the ministry to prepare.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u101	We haven't forgotten Parnon either.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u102	Parnonas was implemented immediately and quickly and 11 million were not lost, because 11 million would be lost. Thank God it's PASOK. We continue with the seventh under the number 618/29-32021 topical question of the second question by the MP of Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Sunification of tourist bus drivers across the middle of a pandemic'. The question will be answered by Mr Tsakloglu, State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs. Here, Mr. Vardakis, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Since you're also charitable, you'll give me a minute more and cut it off from my denture, because it's a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u104	I come from the fact that he has mostly dealt with these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u105	Thank you. Minister, it is a matter of dozens of illegal redundancies from the companies 'UNION' and 'BANDUVAS' and listen - listen, Minister, without compensation! We heard the country's Prime Minister the other day telling us that, through the Recovery Fund, we will have two thousand new jobs. Minister, when you cannot secure existing jobs, are you talking about young people? Who's mocking who? Minister, I believe that Mr Hatzidakis has informed you, because he must feel remorseful - and I say this outrageously - that hundreds of tourist bus drivers made a hundred forty days strike. Was it the biggest of recent years, a strike they were claiming? A piece of bread, which I would like to say to your predecessors that they were stubbornly and punishingly deprived of, because they did not go ahead with the extension and compulsoryity of collective agreements. Minister, I would ask you not to waste the time today to tell us what money you have given and how you supported the workers. The workers know that well, they experience it in their skin. It is all those who have been called upon to survive with EUR 534, who are indebted, who do not have their family budgets coming out, who have had to stop even their children's university activity because they do not have the financial capacity to pay the rents for the rentals they have rented. Today, with your tolerance, if you don't change rota, you drive these people, the drivers of tourist buses in total impoverishment. And who are they, Minister? They've been the ones who have put thirty, forty years in tourism, working twelve, fifteen, eighteen hours to get rich. They are the ones who even give their best self today to maintain tourism at high levels. Minister, do you know or do you not know that, through pandemic, companies that have their employees on parole can't fire? It pays the State - and good - for this modest amount, insurance contributions in accordance with Article 9, which have been repeated on the same footing over all twenty years as collective labour contracts for the terms of pay and work of the tourist bus drivers of Crete. In general, employers who employ drivers with fixed-term contracts during the summer season are obliged to re-entry the same drivers during the new tourist season, if the worker gives written notice of re-entry until February. If the driver submits the written declaration referred to in the preceding paragraph - and I come to the second point - and if the employer declares his refusal in writing or fails to reply in writing until 15 March that he accepts or rejects the proposal for re-entry, he shall have to pay him the dismissal allowance. I guess - to make it simpler - these are the provisions of Law 2112/1920.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Comrade, you've taken 100% of your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u107	Cut time off my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u108	I'll cut him off for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u109	Minister, you should have listened to the Ministry of Labour - listen, Mr President - what the employers say: 'We are not fired, we are simply not reaping'. Note this, Minister, and don't become an accomplice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u111	One last.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Colleague, don't abuse...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u113	It is essential, Mr President. I'm hanging up with this. Minister, companies that entered the development law can fire workers?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u114	Do not abuse the tolerance of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u115	The ones who took TEPIX and the returnable advances can fire? Answer us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Comrade, you spoke for five minutes. You should know that you only have two minutes for your dentistry. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Bardakis, I would like to begin with a general comment on what you have said. The government is doing and will do everything possible to preserve existing jobs, especially in the pandemic. In a dynamic economy, however, the employment structure is constantly changing. Therefore, the government's message in general should be the overall maximisation of employment. And that's our target. In particular, the pandemic, which has been afflicting the whole planet for over a year, is testing the strengths of all economies. Of course Greece could not be an exception to this, even being an economy that came out of a ten-year crisis just before the pandemic. The consequences of the pandemic's measures on economic activity and employment are obvious, and therefore the Government, in particular, on matters relating to its competence, acted quickly to support affected enterprises and households. In this context, we could not omit the tourism sector which, especially because of the restrictions imposed, was deeply affected by the crisis. Let me begin by mentioning the recent support measures taken to protect employment in the tourism sector more widely and more specifically in the transport sector, as well as the resulting strengthening of household incomes with members employed in tourism and transport. First, a special-purpose compensation of EUR 534 was granted for the months of January and February 2021 to categories of tourist-related workers, such as guides, tourist attendants, employees employed in travel agencies, booking services and related activities during the 2019 tourist season and not taken up in the 2020 tourist season, as well as those employed in winter tourist accommodation and ski resorts from October 2019 to March 2020 and were not repeated in the following period. Secondly, a specific financial aid for hotel accommodation operations of 12 months of operation has been announced that upgrades or extends their activities. Thirdly, insurance contributions for employees are subsidised at 12-month-old hotels up to June 2021. Fourthly, especially for workers in tourist accommodation and guides to tourist buses with the right to compulsory re-entry, your question, for those who were re-entered, were suspended by granting a special allowance of EUR 534 with insurance cover on their actual salary and a Christmas gift. For those not re-entered, the possibility of a unilateral declaration to grant special purpose compensation for insurance cover and payment of the Christmas gift for the period from June to October 2020 and for the months January and February 2021 was granted. Finally, the Ministry of Labour made an important decision to renew the insurance capacity for all members of the EVA and the members of their families, irrespective of the conditions of insurance provided for by the legislation. In 2020, therefore, the limitation of fifty days' wages was eliminated. This was all done for the tourism sector. In particular, for the question you raise about drivers of the tourist buses of the two companies in question in Crete, I shall refer in detail to my second language. However, let me begin by saying that the Labour Inspectorate is already concerned with this issue, which, in its reconciliation role, held a trialogue on 18 October on this subject. I've had my time too. Details in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u119	For God's sake, Mr. President! You understand it's a huge issue. Halos' pouch opens!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u120	Leave God alone and deal with the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u121	Mr Minister, unfortunately, you have reiterated exactly the same things. Listen to me. Workers will be entitled to the courtrooms. That's where you lead us. Unfortunately, that's where you're driving us for the first time. Prove even once today that you are in favour of workers for the benefit of the workers. You don't show it. Minister, they entered TEPIX, entered development laws, just and understandably. They entered the returnable advances. Has Mr Mitsotakis not told us that 'we are giving aid to enterprises, we are not banning redundancies and there will be no redundancies'? Is the country's Prime Minister a liar? What are you talking about? Excuse me, don't people ask you for increases? The payroll's asking for them. Look, Minister. This memorandum is well-qualified, with the help of the Transport Federation, the Hermes Association, the workers, with our help - I will submit it for the Minutes of the House, give me a copy and a copy to the Minister, please - and prove the law of the workers and the illegality of the employers. Give it a break now! Call us at least - I say now, if you cannot give a solution - which you can say the reasons - on Friday at the Ministry, in your presence, both parties, and there to resolve our differences. At least show that good will. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Vardakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Don't contribute to this lawlessness, Minister! You are a man, I told you next time, of a scientific training that you must not contribute to this lawlessness. I will testify - because they are also evidenced by employers - in the Minutes which thank the EOT for its rapidity to give them subsidies and subsidies. Where are the laws? Does the government write them in its oldest shoes? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Vardakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Minister, give me an example of working life, except for bankruptcy, who have been made redundant. Go ahead and tell me. Tell me an example but a bankrupt. And they come to tell us today with your tolerance that you know, we don't fire, but don't we re-appoint? And you don't answer that? And how can you after 15 or twenty years without compensation? Where did you get that written? Minister, I'm really tired. I expect an answer from you today. If you don't give us the answer, you're opening the ace of Halos! You're opening a war! You will be responsible if - and I say it reluctantly - tourism this year does not flow smoothly! We will be with the many who strive for a part-session.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u122	Good. Come on, Minister. Mr Theocharis will also speak about tourism later. Don't take care of it all by the Undersecretary of Labour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Vardakis, the first and most important of all in relation to who we are and who we are not. I have referred in detail to my prology in the measures taken by the government. A country which is truly indebted to take all these measures to support employment. Did they have any results? They had it and they had it. According to EUROSTAT's figures, the change in unemployment - and this is what counts as a whole - was one of the best in the European Union, the second after Italy. That's all in general. As far as the expert is concerned. I mentioned in my prototype that on the issue of the drivers you are asking, as it was due by law, the SEA. On 18 March a trialogue was held between the APRC, the business and the Guides Association of Crete. In the context of its role, the APRC has asked undertakings to submit memos with their positions, as well as elements of the transfer or sale of their vehicles as a reference has been made to employers that the non-recruitment of drivers is due to a reduction in the number of their buses. In addition, it was agreed that the drivers' association would also testify to their own pleadings. The contents of the pleadings are now submitted on 22 March. Enterprises argue that bus sales are due to the current unfavourable economic situation and are the only cause of the drivers being unable to re-introduce, claiming that the right to re-introduction and dismissal, as a result of the cancellation of the training of a fixed-term contract, is dependent on the actual ability of the employer to employ the worker during the new tourist season. Workers through their own memo claim that there is an obligation to pay compensation in the event of non-recruitment. It should also be noted that the collective contract signed by the Association of Guides to Tourism of Crete and the Association of Owners of Tourism buses of Crete has expired. As a result, what the collective labour agreement for the re-employment of drivers does not apply, which should be carried out no later than the end of May at the latest. Because of this, this time limit does not exist, resulting in the re-entry being directly linked to the number of moving buses without any timeframe. In this respect, however, I must point out that the APRC has recommended that undertakings pay compensation to drivers who are not re-entered. I would also like to inform you that the issue is also being studied by the services of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs as to whether the notification of non-recruitment of seasonal bus drivers falls under the provisions of collective redundancies under Law 1387/1983. Therefore, the answer to your first question is affirmative. The Ministry is studying this issue so that the best possible solution can be obtained quickly, always respecting the principles of legality and social justice. This will also answer the question of whether the companies have complied with the protection clause on jobs. Finally, on the basis of the information provided by the OSCE, the drivers' association will be required to carry out a reconciling procedure. In this context, the Ministry does not simply remain a shareholder, but plays an active role in resolving disputes with the aim of protecting workers who are, in fact, being tested hard in this difficult period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u124	We continue with the ninth with the number 622/29-32021 topical question of the second question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The lack of staff at the EFKA service in Crete and the serious problems due to delays in the adoption of pension decisions". Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Let me have a word about the previous debate, because it is an issue that concerns all of Crete. In a very serious part of the workers of Crete you show intransigence. Shame on you! It's embarrassed, too! That's what I have to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Comrade, come to your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u127	You make history so long of patriognosticity, but you don't take a stand on this. Protect workers! Give them the bread, these people eat!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u129	I come to the services of the Occupied Territories concerning Crete, which are experiencing very serious problems in their operation due to a lack of staff. This results in thousands of insured persons suffering. There is a very long delay in the process of adopting pension decisions, payment of maternity and maternity benefits, sick leave and so on. Of course, it is not only about Crete. This is a matter for the whole country. The fact is that the pending applications for pensions, both main and ancillary, in Heraklion's ECA are more than ten thousand. I repeat, more than ten thousand! In Chania in December 2018, it reached two thousand three hundred sixteen and today it was four thousand sixty-three. As a result, thousands of insured persons are at a dead end, Minister, and lead to economic suffocation. They are hostages of the policy followed, over time, on social security. The sub-sub-scribing of the ECA services in Crete is such that today in Heraklion there are only seventy employees. And the problem will deteriorate further with the imminent retirement of more than ten workers. In Chania, they serve only for forty-nine employees and nine are in service, since in addition to the retirements of permanent staff, in February 2020, the twelve contractors recruited by the OAED unemployed graduates programme were fired. The above is to add the current risk of the redundancy of hundreds of workers with judicial decisions to e-ECA, which accurately leads to the increasing depreciation of the ECA in Crete. The above, in addition to the consequences on the functioning of the OLAF service, have as a direct impact the intensification of workers who are not sufficient for the huge volume of work they have to carry out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u130	The rest in your dentistry, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u131	I shall conclude, Mr President. The situation was exacerbated by the closure of the OGA office in Heraklion, which had the effect of transferring all responsibilities to the ECA, but without the necessary recruitment of permanent staff. So we ask you, Minister: what urgent action will the government take to ensure that the ECA service in Crete is fully responsible for permanent staff and that its logistical infrastructure is upgraded so that it can respond to the services of the insured, stop this disgracefulness in the late issuing and awarding of pensions?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u132	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u133	Mr Synthyriakis, in fact with your question you raise a problem that the Ministry of Labour is a priority issue. I know the difficulties of both Chania and the rest of the country. The creation of this truly giant insurance body in such a short time has been a very great challenge. The integration of all the insurance funds under a common and single administrative structure has been a necessary reform, but it has led to a series of problems with which it has taken place. The current pension situation does not really pay tribute to anyone, and we all know that very well. For these very reasons, the Ministry of Labour and the administration of EVA have taken a number of actions to tackle this long-term problem. Firstly, by regulation with the advance payment of the amount of the national pension to all applicants for pensions pending the adoption of the pension decision. This is a purely relief measure which aims to limit the consequences of the pensioners' candidates because of administrative weaknesses. However, contrary to what you refer to in your question, this advance does not replace the payment of their normal pension. It will, of course, also be normally attributed to them to the amount provided for in each pensioner. A second measure is the placement of a project manager with exclusive competence to coordinate more widely the actions required so that the process can proceed as quickly as possible. Measure 3, the activation of a special group of 100 retired former ECA officials with experience in the field of pension awards. Measure 4, the recruitment of contract economists and their placement in the field of pension awards. Measure 5, the cash bonus for ECA officials who will deal with all stages of the maturation of pension records in addition to their normal obligations. Measure 6, the renewal of the ELKA logistics infrastructure with modern computers, which you are referring to as well. Measure 7, the use of resources from the recovery fund to accelerate the digitisation of all insurance records. The situation is obviously not easy and cannot be better with magical solutions. We are well aware of the efforts made by all ECA officials to cope with the increased workload. I do not deny that there are problems. But I can assure you that we are working to resolve them every day. Especially in the area of outstanding pensions, a situation which has been afflicting the citizens for too many years now, is being done with every effort to reduce waiting times. The aim of the Ministry is to provide the applicant within the framework of existing financial possibilities, either at the level of human resources, or at organisational, logistical or logistical level. For the true reason, according to data from the competent management of the organisation, the competitive process of supplying new workstations has been completed and within the month, the delivery and receipt of a hundred and twenty-three computers from the regional agency for coordination and support of Crete of the institution on the island has been scheduled. With regard to the staff of the organisation, after the Agency has been issued, the administration of EVA has redistributed the human resources with a view to maintaining the well-functioning functioning of the organisation, as well as the service of the citizens and the public interest. Especially since last August four employees have been added to the branch of Chania, raising the total number of servants to forty - nine. With regard to the impending recruitment of staff to the FBI, according to official programming the process of hiring an eighty-eighty-six employees has already been approved, and apparently some of them will be placed in the branch of the agency in Crete. In addition, you refer to something that is not correct. You refer to the imminent redundancies of hundreds of officials serving in the ECA by court decisions. First of all, the total number of employees employed in the institution under this scheme was fifty-seven throughout Greece. Eleven have been fired on the basis of final judicial decisions. The remaining hundred and forty-six have all remained in their positions after ECA's decision to waive the possibility of further injurious means, and in fact all these employees have been transferred to pension awards. In other words, personal positions have been set up for these cases. All of what I say to you, they have already been voted on and described in Article 104 of Law 4764/2020. It is acceptable, Mr Syntagakis, and criticism and concern about failures and problems. But at the same time we must be precise and speak with data. I will return to my dentext with the detailed description of what is going on in order to modernise the operation of the organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u134	Thank you. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u135	Although I was unable, Mr President, to restrain everything that the Minister said - because the flow was too fast, I will see in the Minutes what you have said in your prototype - but, in any case, if I understood it correctly and are all as blossom as you say it, why do the workers move? The workers are mobilising precisely on these issues that I have raised to you, and indeed this policy of depreciation, namely the deterioration of the EKKA pension agencies, in this case, is a conscious choice over time of the governments, it is a practice that the previous governments and you, as has been ready for some time, are going further than that. Proof of this? The Communications by the Ministry of Labour on the assistance of accredited individuals in the e-ECA pension process, as well as the acceleration of the privatisation of subsidiary insurance through the immediate introduction of a capitalisation system. It's the cherry on the cake and absolutely indicative of what you're keeping us. All of this on digital pension, loan staff, project manager, individuals in pension awarding and so on are, in our view, a record of deception, deception, to feed up this social automation in order to turn society, to turn the indignant pensioners against civil servants, "who do not do their job well." That's one of the goals. It is worth wondering, while you know the problems, because you do not solve them, because they are not solved and I think your workers have made very specific proposals, as does the Communist Party of Greece: Firstly, with the recruitment of permanent staff with full working rights, with the permanentization of the contractors who you flew on the road, despite the fact that they meet standing and constant needs in the staff of the agencies and have valuable experience of the objects in question. Secondly, with the resolution of the unacceptable malfunctioning phenomena of e-ECA, such as computerization, which does not exist at a time of 5G - what can I say! - the room stacks, delays in the cash benefits of insured persons, the absence of modern infrastructures and outdated computers, which are more than fifteen years old, as well as all equipment. It's another problem with the phones. The call centre receives thousands of calls every day. The workers cannot serve this world. Pensioners complain that they don't - taggers - the phones, while in reality workers can't help retired people! Watch out now. I personally call the commander of the FBI about these cases, I send him a message, and yet he did not answer these issues that I am putting to you. That's what I wanted to put to the commander of the FBI. And he does it systematically with others than I've learned. So, instead of dealing with the main issue as a commander for the awarding of pensions, speeding up their award, strengthening staff, facilitating pensioners, and so on, is the phone downloading? What does he do? Is this about computerization? Anyway, you'll have to see. Workers have become a boxer's bag. You need to take immediate measures to resolve these problems that I mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u136	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, contrary to your claim, I think I have answered in detail both questions which you have raised in your question. I think no more than roses have presented the situation, as you have claimed. As I mentioned in my prototype, I fully understand the problems that exist in the functioning of the EVA. The management of the body systematically tries to improve its functioning. In this direction, let me mention some of the measures that have been implemented in recent months. Firstly, all computer procedures have been captured in order to implement the new establishment plan. This action is carried out in the context of the merger and transfer of the responsibilities of the former social security institutions at all operational levels, such as pensions or benefits. Secondly, we are already in the process of implementing the information systems of the larger former pension funds - i.e. IKA, OGA, OAUE, etc. - to a single information system with a view to better awarding, clearing and payment of pensions. Thirdly, a co-financed NSRP project entitled “Direct Pension Fund – ATA” is implemented with the aim of automating all institutions’ pensions. At this stage, the transfer of death-related pensions to all institutions has already been automated. Fourthly, the co-financed work of the NSRP ‘Fight against Evasion’ is completed. This is a programme which will increase the intensity and effectiveness of the controls carried out to combat fraud. Fifth, the concentration of insurance years from all the stores of the former Social Security Institutions in the "Digital Security History Repository - ATALAS" is in the process of speeding up the process of awarding a pension. Sixthly, a series of new electronic services have already been given to citizens, such as the Internet services, the issuing of insurance information, the inventory of indirect members, etc. What do I want to say with these things? There's been a lot of it. There is much more to be done, but in all these things, we commit ourselves and provide as much time as we spend. To conclude, let me clarify that I do not claim that the operator's operation is impeccable. I said it before. I said nothing but pomegranate. In many cases there are problems and failures which affect both the citizens and the employees of the institution. However, you will allow me to insist that every day the effort made to improve the services provided is lasting and unstoppable. We intend to remain committed to this objective and the country's single insurance institution will become a modern, public service that consistently meets the increasing requirements of its role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u138	We conclude the cycle of the Ministry of Labour with the second under number 3806/2/22021 of the Reports Cycle - Questions by the Member of the Bootia of the Change Movement Mr.George Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on "The contribution of the Employment Programmes of the Labour Force Organisation (OAED) to the proper functioning of the services of the public sector". You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you realize that you are in the eye of the cyclone for this burning problem. And it is no coincidence that all sides show up these issues every day. Unfortunately, these are issues that exist and problems exist. We cannot hide them and nobody can escape them. And of course the government cannot escape today. The question I am referring to has not been answered and that is why it is coming today. I didn't get an answer from the services. The government did not actually answer to me in the House. It is well known that the work of the OAED, but also the specific employment programmes implemented by the OAED, have a double feature. On the one hand, they aim to address the impact of long-term unemployment, to reconnect unemployed people to the labour market and to acquire employment experience and skills, to address the phenomenon of the leakage of scientific staff and potential in other countries with Brain Drain. On the other hand, they aim and contribute to the smooth functioning of government services affected by subscribing. The main example is e - EVA. The delays in the awarding of outstanding pensions that afflict an important part of the Greek population have reached the unprecedented. At the same time former workers of the special employment programme for the five thousand young scientists through the Pan-Hellenic Association of Degrees have sent to the Ministry a letter mentioning the reasons why the state, the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, at this stage to exploit all these workers who have been employed for about a year through this system and have played an important role in the proper functioning of the ECA. It should be noted that six hundred and eighty-three members of the Association were employed in an agreement of 12 months in e-ECA, Mr President, while at the end of this programme there were aggregations of letters from EVA branches to the former Minister of Labour and the branches, which called for them to remain in the service, in order to respond to the problems that existed. In the end, contracts were not renewed, but outstanding pensions were increased. These workers, Minister, cannot be accepted as covering serious needs in the Ministry and in the services. Furthermore, it cannot be disputed that they cannot be exposed as families anymore for periods long after the end of the programme, to be exposed to the range of unemployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u141	I will only say that some have already gained considerable experience, but the government rather than finding a solution, is looking for a project manager, etc. to move forward and find solutions. We ask: is the Ministry going to publish for 2021 new socially beneficial jobs - were they heard the day before yesterday - for two months of employment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Comrade, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u143	Also, can we make use of these people, these workers of the special employment programme, in order to get rid of them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u144	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, with regard to the delay, your question was written and answered out of time. Indeed, that is where we have a problem with the Ministry, especially when it comes to co-operating bodies, and it is something we are trying to improve. Your question - I have it in front of me - has three questions, and it is only a small piece of the last question that you have devoted to almost all of your speech. You will allow me to refer to your other questions. First of all, I thank you for your question, because you are giving me the opportunity to refer once again to a major issue which concerns the overall range of targeted protection measures taken by the Government and the Ministry of Labour, with a view to strengthening employment and the unemployed. With the measures announced by the Minister of Labour last Tuesday, March 30, Kostis Hadjidakis, for the month of April, the budget for the protection net alone of the Ministry of Labour is more than EUR 7.1 billion, while the workers and unemployed are more than three million. I would remind you that our country has had the second best service, which I have responded to before a previous question - Mr Vardakis, I think - to contain unemployment in the past year. This was achieved through the measures adopted by the government as a whole, but also by the Ministry of Labour. Only the measures to strengthen employment and the unemployed announced by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs last week for April have estimated costs of almost EUR 700 million, EUR 695 million in fact. Also, in the context of new and improved active employment policies, the OAED is already implementing a three and a half thousand public jobs programme and there are also eight open budget programmes of EUR 440 million for for forty-two thousand subsidized new jobs. Of these eight programmes, two programmes of fifteen thousand two hundred and two hundred jobs concern one unemployed over thirty years and the other long-term unemployed over fifty-five years for employment in public and OTA bodies, while another two programmes of twelve thousand two hundred two hundred two-and-a-half-year-old unemployed are aimed at unemployed scientists twenty-two-thirty-nine. In particular, the long-term unemployment programme of fifty-five to sixty-seven years is open to eight thousand new jobs in legal persons governed by public law, public enterprises and enterprises of the municipalities and regions of 12 months, with the possibility of extending for an additional 12 months. The subsidy amounts to 75% of the monthly wage and non-wage costs, around 750 euros a month. Secondly, the unemployment programme of the unemployed of thirty years and over with seven thousand jobs in regions with high unemployment - eastern Macedonia and Thrace, Western Greece, Epirus, Thessaly and Central Macedonia - 12 months duration is also open. The monthly subsidy amounts, depending on age and whether or not it is a long-term unemployed person, from EUR 473 to EUR 710 per month. In the employment programme of unemployed graduates of twenty-two to twenty-nine years, with three and a half thousand jobs of ten months, we have a grant of 75% and a non-wage cost of up to 750 euros per month, while the programme of graduates of unemployed up to thirty-nine years with five thousand two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-dollen, has a duration of fifteen-month-two-dollen, and the grant-th-th-th-th-dollen, and the grant-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-th-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollion-dollen. Along with all that I have said, the open employment programmes for the disadvantaged, the forty-six hundred, is running at the same time as the programme for the socially beneficial work for which you have asked me. This programme is thirty and a half thousand jobs in municipalities and regions, which you also refer to in your question. You will mention in your question that, according to the recent OAED communications, there is not expected to be any new public-private work programmes for the year 2021. I wonder where that is from. There's nothing like that. Already last Thursday, on 1 April 2021, the Minister of Labour, Mr Kostis Hadjidakis, at his meeting with the President of the CEDEFOP, Mr Dimitris Papastergiou and CEDEFOP officials, announced the two-month extension of this programme of voluntary work and at the same time we are negotiating with the European Union the proclamation of a last programme of mutual labour in the current NSRF. Our aim is to alleviate the negative effects of high unemployment and the impact of the coronary on the labour market. For these two actions, but also for the measures to strengthen the services of the ECA, I shall refer in detail to my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u146	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question is from February 2nd. At the Ministry by February 2, there was an absolute silence about what it will do with social work. Today, of course, you have said so - indeed - and we are glad that there has really been an announcement, but for a two-month period, a two-month period after the pressure of the mayors? The mayors are constantly pressing. If we know the harsh reality that exists more generally in public administration and in local government, I wonder - and we wonder why this process is not exploited. Here, here, we are talking about these scientists, about six hundred and eighty-three people in this case - because it is about e-ECA - because we have to see them, although they have acquired very specific experience and not only that, but the addresses where they were working are requested. They have been involved, they have submitted questions, they have submitted requests by letters and to the commander of the e-VETA and the Ministry. I will submit to the minutes the relevant letters of the Association, also to the Minutes, Mr President, and to the documents submitted by the services of the eFKA to the House where they say that these people's contracts must be renewed, because they are useful, because they have taken off the job, they have been dealing with pensions. And that's not all, because at some point it sounded like those who hired were auxiliary staff. Well, no, it wasn't helpful. I will also submit to the Minutes, Mr President, and the documents where seals had been posted, but also codes - activation of a code-coded user account - which means that there was complete confidence in the service to these people about how they would move and what they would do. Although there is know-how, although there are ready - to - make scientists, even though outstanding pensions are growing many times, what does the Ministry do? He has commissioned a project manager to tell us how the process will be carried out. I didn't understand well. When you have ready staff, first you deal with this process, let the pensions go ahead, get pensions out, make demands, let us get on with anything else. And don't tell me, Mr President, that for the first time, we have seen how many outstanding pensions were on shelves. It wasn't just shelves. And in supermarket carts. We know it and we've seen it. And as an opposition that the current government was going to have seen what the status of the EVA was. She was surprised, and that's why she made public what? Explain what? Project management and any other procedure goes to do? Or how is it going to act further? They are issues that concern society, but the problem remains. The problem remains, Minister, and you know it very well, and I believe that you are not at all comfortable as an academic who is and with the course you have, to see such a turbulence in serving citizens and giving solutions to the real problems that exist. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We fully endorse these people's request, not to adopt the demand, because they are people with experience, they know and can contribute to the decongestedness of the e-ECA. It's no different. They had know-how, they had codes, so they knew, directly and by hand, and through EKKA's interiors how to handle and how to make pensions. So why don't we hire them? Why? This must be answered, it must be answered not only to those who were the beneficiaries, but also to the citizens and pensioners, 'we do not hire them for that', to be understood. A pensioner cannot see that there are staff ready that can offer for at least one year - and it is easy to do so - services and we can refuse. It is not possible for a favoured state, a good administration to ignore such a process and start with project manager, manager, and so on. And I don't want to say anything else. What can I say, Minister? How else can we deal with such a request, which is absolutely fair? And attention, don't think there was no such staff to help us in serious work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u148	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u149	These are the documents that I will be tabling and truly amazed at both the letters from the competent directors of the local stores and the codes that have been given to handle very specific and personal data. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u150	Be well, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, allow me to answer the questions raised mainly by the written question. First, the joint ministerial decision on the two-month extension of the existing public works programme of thirty and a half thousand jobs, because the question is mainly for the socially beneficial work to which I have referred in my prototype, is expected to be signed in the next few days. In fact, the question of the extension of the CEDEFOP, Dimitris Papastergiou, described it as a very important development and stressed that we are convinced that every effort will be made by the Ministry of Labour too, so that by the end of the extension there will be staff in the municipalities through new corresponding programmes to meet the increased seasonal needs. In this respect, we are working on it taking into account the new data and the needs of the economy, as a significant part of the recovery fund will be allocated to modernise the labour market, but also to the brave reinforcement of active employment policies. With regard to public works programmes, their main objective is to strengthen and promote the employment of the unemployed with emphasis on the vulnerable groups of the population at high risk of exclusion, such as the long-term unemployed and the low-skilled and naturally need to work first in a protected environment, in order to integrate them into the labour market and avoid marginalisation by maintaining their job capacity. At the same time, the new programmes will be linked to the upgrading of knowledge and skills so that participants are strengthened in the process of reintegration into the labour market, while at the same time providing a multiplier effect on the economy. The action of the public-benefit scheme is aimed at registered unemployed in the OAED registers to promote them in employment in the context of public-private programmes in municipalities, regions, regional welfare centres, relevant bodies and services of other bodies, namely those mentioned in the first two questions of your question, Mr Mulkiotis. This training will be carried out in an licensed capacity by the National Qualification and Professional Certification Organisation for Lifelong Learning Centres which have a role as a training provider. Participation in training is compulsory and will relate either to horizontal skills or to specialists according to the choice of the beneficiary. In particular, the action includes, firstly, a specific job for eight months and, secondly, a theoretical training programme of 20 to 50 hours, which will lead to the certification of knowledge and skills acquired in the training programme. These will be done using the training voucher method and the educational and other conditions will be specified in the invitations. I am now going to the last part of Mr Mulkiotis's last question on the question of the strengthening of the eFCA with human resources. There they were approved for recruitment via the IASP for e-EFKA, i.e. the former EFKA and the EIB, a total of eighty-six hirings, to which additional measures are to be added to strengthen the operation of e-Efka, as the Minister of Hazidakis recently announced. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] With regard to the Ministry's plan, which has been prepared in cooperation with the administration of e-ECA, I would like to stress that I am not a commander of the ECA. The FBI is supervised, but an autonomous organization. Operational problems are solved by the FBI. It is our duty to support the ECA in so far as the general budget restriction is met and in so far as an application by the institution itself for certain requests is made. In this context, a number of things have already been done. In other words, the qualified majority of retired people, former e-ECA officials, who would be assisted by the body in the process of speeding up the award of pensions and the speedier liquidation of outstanding pension applications, have been triggered. Secondly, the setting-up of step-by-step employees by providing additional fees based on the achievement of specific pension award targets. Third, secondments from other public bodies to the ECA for a period of six months. Fourthly, the temporary disposal of personnel by scientific chambers, but also the improvement of the body's logistics infrastructure, as I mentioned in a previous question, so that the employees in it can carry out their duties more effectively. The aim of all these measures here is precisely to achieve this difficult objective. However, we believe that we will succeed by the end of the year in a serious decline in the stock of outstanding pensions, because it really does not look for a price to anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u152	Thank you. We are opening the cycle of questions concerning the Minister of Tourism Mr. Theocharis Theocharis. The seventeenth question will be discussed under number 624/29-3-2021 in the second cycle of SYRIZA's MP Halkidiki - a Progressive Alliance of Sunday Malama to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "The government is stepping up uncertainty in the Halkidiki tourism economy." Please, Madam President, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the factors of the Halkidiki tourist economy are experiencing a horror of terror. They are a few weeks before the start of the season and they do not know exactly what to expect. They heard the announcements, yours and the government, about the opening of tourism on 14 May, but they doubt and make it very difficult to believe that. They fear that they will live what they lived with last year with your accorded decisions, continuous overthrows and eventually with the collapse of the tourist movement in Halkidiki. So the Halkidiki tourism world does not know whether or not to believe you. We are three weeks before Easter and there are still no basic activities on the opening up of tourism. The health protocols that appeared a few days ago in the press and in the media do not respond to the main case of Halkidiki tourism, which are very specific. I am going directly to the questions: First, is it a commitment to open up tourism on 14 May, or will you do the same thing as what you did with the retail trade and thereby destroy the Halkidiki economy? Secondly, when will internal tourism be opened, that is to say moving from county to county? This is also a large part of the tourist economy of Halkidiki. Thirdly, when will road tourism be opened, especially from the Balkans and northern Europe, where millions of tourists come from and how will the huge fiasco with the suffering of tourists last year at the border station in Promachona be avoided? Fourthly, when will the focus be allowed? Because it does not mean tourism without open shops. Fifth, what about the airlines that haven't even opened their packages for tourism, what flights will there be to the Thessaloniki airport and when will they start? Sixth, when will the vaccination of tourist professionals begin? Because on this point too, in addition to announcements you have done nothing and I do not really believe you will. Do you think that in the five weeks we're left will you be able to inoculate all tourist professionals even with the first dose of the vaccine? Finally, seventh, with what support measures for workers and businesses will tourism be relaunched to overturn and prevent mass unemployment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u154	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Malama, I am trying to monitor all the dangers you describe, of a similar nature to the one we heard last year in relation to opening and planning. I'll answer you first of all to your central question. I leave the confusion that exists in the question itself, namely that the government is intensifying the uncertainty, but yet you say in your question that we have made announcements and given a horizon for when tourism will open, but also how. I'll come back to this. Our country is one of the first countries to prepare, set up a plan, implement it and have announced it. A characteristic of how early we have started is that the Prime Minister's letter on the digital health certificate, on the 'green health line', so that we can relaunch travel, is January 12th. So the only thing we can't blame for is that we haven't started early. Now, as far as this basic point is concerned, that companies do not know how to function, to tell you they know. The protocols that were in force last year also apply now. Businesses have the experience, knowledge, they have implemented the protocols in an exemplary manner last year, and that is why we have not had any problems despite your danger and they know that these protocols are now in place. The ministerial decisions are in force and the protocols are in full effect. So they know how it works. What we are doing now is looking at the health workers to see what improvements we can make in these protocols, what flexibility we can offer to businesses, without risking the health of workers, tourists and the wider population as a minimum. So you have no doubt. Businesses know how to function and can do it by now. We have already worked together for the past few weeks with the Sanctions Committee. Some protocols have been finalized, and now they are at the stage of getting out as a ministerial decision. However, they have been placed on the market, they are aware of market operators, hoteliers, tourist agencies and others and can therefore be implemented and prepared for any changes as I have said and improvements. And of course they can in the next period see them by a ministerial decision that will be with FEK. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'll close, Mr. President. Seven questions were raised. The question had one question and seven were raised here. So I'll just ask for your tolerance so we can answer everything. It is well known that the world is very interested. We announced our plan and we are the only country that has so clearly announced it. I was in a number of countries in the previous period. Most of them, basically all of them, I would tell you about the substance of it, are for Northern Greece. It is Romania, it is Serbia, that is my communication with the Minister for Health of Northern Macedonia, so that we can explain our plan for opening up and, above all, how this can be done from our own borders. So, on very crosslines and titles, and of course I will come back to my denology: of course we will open on 14 May. We open safely and in spite of the dangers. And it is an opportunity now to rise and renounce all appeals to marches and gatherings that you do as SYRIZA in the previous period, which intensify the uncertainty on your part about how the health status will be, so that we can safely welcome tourists. We are opening up with a five-point and defense plan for the next period and with the conditions prior to either vaccination or negative testing and sampling with the EVA system, which was highly successful and for which we have won international recognition, so that we can identify the people on the border who are positive, the isolation hotels, so that we can isolate them, with the vaccination that you have referred to and which will be completed as soon as the vaccination of our healthly vulnerable fellow citizens is completed. Unless you suggest - I see Mr Xanthos - our country will invade the workers in tourism before they are vulnerable. I don't know if that's the position of your party. However, the government will only inoculate them once we have finished - and that will be the health committee to tell us - the vaccination of vulnerable people, to save as many lives as possible and to strengthen the national health system which is our first priority. Finally, we will open up with strict compliance with the health protocols that have been kept safe last year and the tourists and our fellow citizens, and of course they will also be kept with the adjustments we are going to make this year. I shall continue in my second language, Mr President, for the other questions that have been raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u156	Mrs Malama, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, it really is very impressive that you think everything has gone wishfully in the season of last year. I'm impressed! What can I say? If you really think that the tourist workers will have been able to get vaccinated by the end of the season, it is also very impressive and optimistic on your part. I wish it'd be real. However, I would like to insist that there are very important tourist investments in Halkidiki. There are small and medium-sized enterprises in Halkidiki, there are workers, there are families who are currently fighting and waiting for something very specific and you are not telling me anything very specific. You're generally telling me vague things. We therefore want to have a commitment that you said, 14 May, but for the moment, what they hear in general does not reassure them. On the contrary, they are concerned. The Halkidiki tourist economy offers billions of euros to the economy of Greece, and at the moment there are too many things that are still pending. We want specific things. There are large tourist investments waiting to hear you about how they will proceed to the recruitment of thousands of workers. There are small and medium-sized accommodations waiting to see how to work and with which tourists. There are workers who are on the verge of poverty, and if they do not work, they are in direct danger of being unable to cope with their essential needs. There is a whole chain of tourist economy that will collapse and the country's economy will collapse with it. This season goes from bad to worse. There are no reservations. I would also like to ask you this: Is it true that many European Union countries are considering a multi-day quarantine for citizens on holidays in Greece? Have you made moves to prevent this? Have you sought alliances with other southern European countries? Have you been in touch with tourist agents abroad? Have you upgraded the operating protocols to the country's entrance gates, see Promachona last year? And finally, this green European Union certificate answer us exactly when it will be operational, since you advertise it so much, and if it works, how will we prevent the tourist season? Europe has invaded 7% of its citizens so far. So the fear of professionals in Halkidiki - and I would like to close with this - is that the tourist season will shrink even further than last year, that the tourist market will collapse and that your roadside management will not improve, so a large number of tourists will be lost throughout northern Greece. As far as internal tourism is concerned, people have been asking when they will be able to travel, because here we have this paradox: tourist properties, their countryside, i.e., have been waiting for six months and the owners cannot go to them, take care of them, because many of them may rent them. When will that happen, and if it happens, they should know. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So will there be any care for the movement of domestic tourism? Will you make use of the tools you themselves advertise and say all the relevant?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u158	Please, my colleague, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u159	Are we going to start, or are we going to sit around looking over it, waiting grievingly for the destruction that comes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u160	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, thank you very much. I heard a scream of agony, I heard some estimates that this year's gonna be worse than last year. Your right to adopt the most pessimistic assessments. We'll be here to talk about it. And last year you thought that 3 billion would be the revenue. Revenue was 40% more than you said in the end, 4.3 billion. Enough? No, but also every euro at such a critical moment that it goes to filling up the dish of a child worker in tourism is something that we cannot consider to be negligible. I want to salute, first of all, your tone, because he's very different from last year. The defamatory debate that you have been trying for the past year, thankfully, has not worked. I want to believe that this is not only your personal choice, but that it will also be a broader and more comprehensive choice of your party. I would therefore ask you, in general terms, to join the calls so that every last Greek citizen can be vaccinated, because only then, when they are all vaccinated, will we really be able to find the freedom to prosecute the filth that pandemic has loaded on our backs. I'm very clear. I'm telling you very specific things. You asked me if we'd open May 14th. I'm telling you. You are asking me whether the whole country is safe and you are giving me an opportunity here because you told me about the importance of the Halkidiki economy. It would be appropriate to clarify once and for all an issue which I understand in terms of micro-geographical feasibility of COVID - free of destination or not. Our country's plan is a whole for the opening up of tourism. It is careful, it is balanced and allows safe tourism throughout the country. The debate on an island for operational reasons - the Minister for Health - is here - the Ministry of Health is vaccinating it because it cannot send the port every day or every other day to make one - one vaccination and it does so operationally, it is not a debate on tourism. The whole country is safe and we are not here to say one is "I'm safe" and the other is "I'm not" and to make such an internal competition. I am therefore making a more general call to stop this counterproductive debate. The whole country is safe and at last you must join forces with the government so that this anguish, which I have heard, does not come true. We'll open on May 14th. We'll open all the land readings so we don't have the difficulties we had last year. Last year was a war situation in which the country did not have the powers to serve all these gates of entry and control was much more difficult. We had to. Last year the wave - I remind you - hit the Balkans when we opened. We have no contract with the virus. We don't know when he's coming exactly. If the Balkans lived up in July and this burdened the health situation, the viral load in northern Greece, we cannot ignore that. The Department of Health can't ignore it. The health committee cannot ignore it. But this year we have more tools. We have the best knowledge, having accumulated experience since last year. We have the vaccines I'm calling for again. We all have to get vaccinated. Only vaccines will be able to remove weight from the health system, reduce the most painful statistic, the saddest statistic that our country's deaths are, and of course we have the fastest tests, which keep us safe. Because when we have the fast tests at airports, it will not take twenty-four hours later to look for and take them from hotels and take them to isolation hotels, but we will be able at airports to make isolation straight away and be much safer for all of us. Or, respectively, if someone comes with his car at the road borders, he can go back home as long as someone from the family was found positive. So we have better tools, we make use of them, we are working actively and intensively over the last few years. Obviously, we are coordinating many services which have many things to do with the ICM, with the vaccination, with the policing of any measures and restrictions that are now in place. However, the government unitedly gives its powers to open up tourism, because it is crucial. I'm hanging up with this. If it is something that the country won last year is that it kept that balance. We all know that if everything is forbidden and any movement from our home, the virus won't move. However, it is a question of allowing people to survive and to do so safely and in balance. This is what the country is doing and is doing under the guidance of the decisions of the health committee experts. We will continue to do so in the best possible way. I gave you very specific answers. Evidently, internal restrictions will be lifted when the Sanctions Committee considers that the data permits it. I close by saying that what applies to Greek citizens is also valid for tourists. I hear an entire paraphilology that tourists circulate while Greek citizens do not circulate. It's a fake! It's farther from the truth than one can find. Tourists and any tourists who come are isolated cannot come out of the spots, as is the case for every Greek citizen. There will be no discrimination between the vaccinated, the tourists or anyone else. We won't only have restaurants open for vaccinated people. The country has specific rules. They are put by the health committee, by the Ministry of Health and, of course, by the Prime Minister himself, after these suggestions, and apply to all, whether they are tourists or Greek citizens. And that's gonna keep happening all summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u162	Minister, let me make a point that you made on your own. When there are sixty free - COVID islands, no one will be looking for an excuse abroad if that is because the Ministry of Health did it or not. There's gonna be an ad. You know that the mechanisms of the municipalities and the islands are separate from yours. It'll create a problem. I think you have put the point very correctly. That is quite right. You need to find a solution, because otherwise there will be areas of two different speeds. Think about it. You'll find it in front of you. Mr. Mitarakis is from Chios and the island will be at second speed from an island next door. He needs attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u163	It is clear that there are only business reasons which lead to these kinds of islands. That's the one. Secondly, it is not really a matter of substance. They are small islands with small potential compared to beds that could affect things. Thirdly, it is the planning of the Ministry of Health. Of course, there are many of my responsibilities to describe him. I would remind you that these days we have already exceeded fifty thousand vaccine doses a day. We're at the fifty-two to fifty-three thousand with the new mega vaccination centres. Our country is at the forefront of Europe with European restrictions. We will not apologise for any mistakes in Europe. At the beginning of the season there will be scope for vaccination in all areas and to whomever wants to, because until now in July there will be vaccines for any adult who wants to do so. Therefore, the season will not be lost any year, but with the prioritisation of the tourist workers and the speed of activation of the remaining defence lines, as I described them, all the tourists - I want to say it, clearly - will be as safe as they are in our country and must feel the same safer and even safer in most cases from their countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Minister. We all wish in and out of the Chamber that you achieve the goals. The second question will be discussed under number 604/26-32021 of the SYRIZA MP for the second cycle - the Progressive Alliance of Mr. Georgios Psychogiou to the Minister for Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "Additional need to resolve the many problems created by the residence permits under the responsibility of the Ministry". Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the advent of the pandemic a year ago and government policies on issues related to the Code of Migration have brought about a significant deterioration in the standard of living of immigrants living permanently and legally in the country, as well as the vast majority of the Greek people. The Greek state, after leaving a crowd of people in a grey zone, comes with unanswered sloppy extensions of expired permits and without any possibility of renewal for months to create huge problems for people who have their families and their lives here, from the inability to travel abroad or return to Greece until daily problems in transactions with public and private bodies, their professional activities, their access to health, social welfare and citizenship and naturalisation procedures, precisely because of this unacceptable refusal of state services to accept the extension as equivalent to the renewal. And this also has a direct connection with the Greek society, which interacts, which cooperates, hires and coexists with or coexists with these people. However, the most outrageous manifestation of this oligopoly is the suspension of the possibility of lodging a licence for exceptional reasons. The SYRIZA Government, in response to the situation, had simplified the procedure in two stages. However, from March 2020 until two months ago, that is, for a year, it has been globally frozen for Attica services and all scheduled dates have been cancelled, and even today it is doubtful when this possibility will be smoothly launched, with thousands of outstanding electronic requests available. Since access to the exercise of rights, as provided for in the Code of Migration, must be ensured, because the sense of insecurity of people who have been legally resident in the country has been intensified for many years, because the post-driven exercise of a right is an obstacle to its exercise and it is done with a state responsibility and not with the fault of the rightholders, and because now that we are talking about people being arrested, deported or lost basic rights and services, ask: How do you intend to intervene in order to restore the full access of the legally resident in the Greek territory of migrants to the rights provided for by the law and to circumvent bureaucratic and administrative obstacles to the extension of residence permits, which is directly related to the Greek society, as we have said? And, secondly, what care have you taken to restore access to the application for exceptional reasons, which is currently numbering tens of thousands of outstanding cases? I'll come back to my dentistry. We know of the ministerial decisions and I imagine you will mention the problems that exist there too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u166	Thank you. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you very sincerely for your question. After fourteen months at the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, it is the first time that we have been discussing a very important issue in this Chamber, which is legal immigration. And this government is promoting legal immigration as the right way for people to travel and work, work and stay permanently in other countries when they qualify. Our country is open to legal immigration, and it is also the direction that we want the new immigration and asylum pact to take. Let's go to that particular question. You recognize that the pandemic of COVID - 19 has shown in some way the weaknesses of the old system of granting and renewing residence permits, which has been in place in our country for many years. I will not go into the previous government, it is more time-consuming, to be fair. All procedures require the physical presence of interested or proxy lawyers in the relevant departments and the collection of large volumes of paper supporting documents. At the moment, the renewal relates to a hundred sixty - four thousand applications that have expired. Can you imagine at the moment a hundred and sixty-four thousand people going tail to the decentralised administrations of our country? That would be absolutely impossible at the current juncture. You also realise that there is a technical issue which has not been corrected. In other words, it is this agency that receives the applications, the decentralised administrations, and the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, which is responsible for adopting these decisions. This is a matter of administration that needs to be resolved. However, there is no sense of insecurity among legal immigrants in our country, as it is clear that the government's legislative direction will automatically extend and renew where the natural process cannot follow. Of course, the services with staffing issues, technology issues, need to face a large accumulated volume of applications. So we took the initiative and renewed by ministerial decision, which was published on 30 March 2021, the residence permits which expired, expired or expired in the coming months until 31 December 2021. From there on, the big bet is the digitisation of the procedure, because with the sixty-four thousand applications, plus those that will begin to end in 2022, you can still realize that we will have the same problem. We shall therefore begin, and I will present to you in the minutes the Ministerial Decision of 31 March, according to which applications for a residence permit are now submitted electronically for exceptional reasons. I mean, that's what it is. for the case where you referred to your question. The new systems will therefore be submitted electronically, and they will work by the end of the year. The aim is for all applications for renewal or for the issuing of residence permits to be made electronically and for the presence of a person only to be limited to taking biometrics or for cases where necessary by law or by checking further clarification. I'll just say one last thing, so I won't get over time. In our renewals, there is an innovation. Each legitimate immigrant now has the ability to create an individual electronic account on the "Migration.gov.gr" platform and receive an individualised extension certificate, which is a legal document giving him all the rights he would have with the renewed card, and to travel and work and address the authorities. So, we have solved the uncertainty you said in your question with digital technology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u168	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the answer you give and you will submit to the Minutes is to tell the Ministry of the Interior too, so that there can be a harmony and unity in the application of the law, because you have also taken the extension after our own pressures from the first moment, but the Ministry of Interior in many cases is causing enormous problems for legal immigrants. That is why we come and ask the question and everyone who works in the public administration of this sector knows it. So, look at how to harmonize systems and how to cross-check data. There are cases of people in embassies who stayed there and could not travel because of these situations. There are cases of people who could not get an allowance or go to the hospital for that reason. We don't accidentally come to the House to bring the matter. There are cases where people could not open up a small and medium-sized enterprise for this reason, because they had received the extension, but were not recognised by the services. So look at these very serious issues, which concern the chain of those in the country. And, of course, you said "we did not say that it should be a personal presence". It is, however, unprecedented inability for a year not to operate the system. You have been talking about digital revolution and digital transformation and people have not been able to deposit residence permits for a year. Apparently, he's blocked the system now, since there wasn't that possibility. Of course, the Ministerial Decision begins the electronic submission of excellent reasons as from 15 April. Are you prepared for this? Because in citizenship you weren't. There are tragic situations unfolding in the Departments of Citizenship of the Prefectures. Will the system work or create obstacles? Are you sure he won't block the application volume? But they say the workers there, who obviously want support and recruitment. We had to make more recruitments, too, so we could talk about it all. When you say in the ministerial decision that the deposit certificate, i.e. the white certificate for deferral, can be issued up to three months later do you realize that you leave people unprotected for a quarter or more without evidence in case of police control or the exercise of basic rights or transactions? We're talking about human lives. We're not talking about numbers and ministerial decisions here. And how is this applied in practice? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The infrastructure needs to be upgraded, it needs to be co-operated with local municipalities, it needs interventions at the technological level too. However, there is another need, Mr Minister, for me to close with that, Mr President. We need to understand that we need to go first. And because you said that because we will also talk about the immigration pact and how you ask for legal passages, and if the country becomes a place of souls, we will all see it when the time comes and we have said it, but we must also see if you want societies of inclusion, cohesion and integration. Because with these policies you only do the opposite. There are many benefits from these policies and it has also been proved in Europe. So we are asking you directly to resolve these issues and the practical and bureaucratic and administrative issues, but also to stop under the state of idealism and under the State of satisfaction of certain audiences and even those who have been staying in the country for years and to create a problem both in Greek society and in its everyday life, but also to offend the image of the country with this situation. Give it a straightforward solution and do not show that everything is done well because it is not done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u170	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, I repeat that legal immigration by rules is something positive for the country and the government recently in this Chamber also legislated the special procedure for the relocation of land workers, a requirement that was in existence by Greek society to meet needs in the labour market. On matters of the Ministry of Interior, you realize that I cannot answer you, I do not have the necessary knowledge. I imagine you're going to ask the Ministry of Interior a question on this. On the subject of the digital platform, it has been operating for many months to provide personalised accounts, to be able to meet the decentralised administrations, with the limitations of course that exist in a pandemic era. It is a great revolution, the automated personal renewal of the residence permit, and so these sixty-four thousand legal immigrants affected by the recent ministerial extension decision will be able to issue themselves, without any waiting and without any cost, the individual extension certificate, which, Mr President, must give them all the access rights that you have raised as questions in your second language. It's access to health, it's access to the state, it's pretext to services, it's the possibility to travel. We know from many cases that there has been no problem with travel by legal immigrants when they have used the identity of their residence permit, the expiration of them, with the personalised extension decision. I think that the solution to all these bureaucratic problems is the operation of the new digital platform for the acceptance of applications now, launched on 15 April. So all the issues of the digital transformation of legal immigration, which have been discussed for many years, in 2021, are being done. The message, however, I would like to send is that under no circumstances should anyone have insecurity from the delay in the renewal of residence permits for those who fulfil the legitimate conditions, as pandemic is dealt with by extensions and new technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, too. We continue with the third under number 613/28-3-2021 topical question by the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kaminis to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "Sustained distortive functioning of the Non-Government Organizations Register". You've got roots from Chios, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u173	Of course, from the Fishers too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u174	We're patriots.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Kamine, you've got two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u176	Minister, you will, I imagine, have in mind an in-depth survey published on the valid blog 'Insider.gr' and signed by Mrs Elisa Triantafyllou. The report is signed on 'Uranian-downside NGOs and organisations - 'Plans' in the Metarakis Register'. It is true here that, in the end, all this noise, which you have made with the NGOs' registers, must be certified and that it must be credible, that it is finally so clever and that you are actually giving money to NGOs who are not registered in this terrible register. You said then you'd put order in the clear vine. Our first strike took place with the famous 'Hopeland'. Now the report takes out more, takes out the NGO "Social Solidarity Actions". Let's take a look at the dates. These gentlemen are completely irrelevant to anything that concerns refugees, asylum, unaccompanied minors, everything. In early August they applied to enter the register with this CV. On September 29th, they apply for participation in “ESTIA” and only on November 25, 2021, add the additions for immigrants, etc. in their statutes. As an ISO certificate required, they have provided services of an extremist union and cultural and scientific events organising services. It points out these in its practice, i.e. that they have not seen two-year project actions and evaluations, that they have done nothing and that there is no efficiency of actions. [[At this point the IV Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the presidential office.]] Why did they sign in the register after all? Why do these people take money while they are completely deprived of the two-year experience they require, and on this condition you have ruled out valid non-governmental organisations from funding? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u177	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr Colleague, I understand that you have a particular sensitivity to the issue of NGOs and it is absolutely respected. It is a key issue of parliamentary control. And I imagine it is an area that you know, perhaps better than me, because of the many years in which you have dealt with the Municipality of Athenians at a very difficult time for immigration. Let me make something clear. The goal of the executive register was indeed to get a class in a blurred landscape and earlier initiative, and the SYRIZA Government with the President-in-Office today, who is well aware of the efforts that have been made. The aim was to certify organisations and also to certify natural persons operating in the field. It is an issue that in recent months there has been a particular sensitivity of Greek society to having a good picture of who is given the opportunity to approach vulnerable populations, such as refugees. And I think, if you like, it is also an opportunity for many organisations that have existed for years - following quality certification rules, for example, which is an international certificate, it is not something Greek - to organise better. Of course, the NGO register, which was set up in 2002 at a time when programmes were running, as was the case in the ‘ESTIA’ programme, could in no case be an instrument of intervention, nor would it have been allowed to be, in invitations to the managing authority. It is not a tool to distort competition by putting insurmountable obstacles, especially to NGOs already in the register and wanting to continue with the 'ESTIA' programme. No one was prevented from registering the NGO. If that were the case, it would have been necessary to exclude new partners and new benefits. NGO's not a guild. It is not an area of the "civil society" that has only the right to access those who thought about it many years ago and today do not have the legal right to co-operate the new providers. That is why we also received a letter from the United Nations' special rapporteurs for human rights, who said 'in no case can you restrict the right to create new organisations with artificial rules'. On the subject of the 'ESTIA' programme, I would like to remind you of this. The Government received the ‘ESTIA’ programme in 2020 from the UN High Commissioner. At that time we have chosen and accepted questions from SYRIZA - Mr Psychoyos is here - because, firstly, we have reduced the single price and, secondly, we have put, according to the NGOs, tough rules on their obligation to evacuate the apartments from those who were no longer beneficiaries. As a result of these new conditions, there was a climate in the summer of 2020 that many providers would leave. Indeed, some suppliers left - known providers - who did not stand, did not want to meet the new prices. So we opened the invitation, not just to NGOs. We also opened it in the private sector. They could enter private companies that would not have a rule of registration, at the specific price we have given, with the quality required by the Ministerial Decision, both in the departments and in the services provided. And I want to tell you, Mr President, that we have accepted all the applications that have been submitted. No one was cut off by the 'ESTIA'. So under no circumstances are these twenty-five providers now who give us twenty-five thousand beds of people who do not sleep in structures, but sleep in decent conditions, no choice has been made. And that's why, if you'd like, we relaxed sometime the rule that you could go in without writing, so that we wouldn't rule out someone, because after he told you that we were in a guild. Fixed price, open for everyone. Those who had and wanted to get in. No one's cut. Therefore, the essence of things is that the register is working for this, but not to exclude and create a craftsmanship. Because if we were to create a guild, we'd have to raise prices and pay more money to those who were already on the same bed program. And we didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u180	Minister, I didn't expect you to come here in fact without any argument. Who said anything about a guild here? Here the issue has been raised - from you first - that those involved in the work of NGOs must prove credibility, experience, effectiveness, etc. We didn't tell you to take them and not take them. We told you that since you were prepared to put order, as you were saying, to keep it. And now we are learning that this dreadful register, which was actually set up to lay down the terms of credibility and which provides for ISO, provides for experience, provides for a committee recommended, provides for a three-member committee and then the Secretary-General who decides, in fact, is of no use. What do we see? That the term "registration" bypass. That's what you're doing, that's what you're doing: Take an initial application and see if some basic conditions are met - that's what you call 'first registration' - you start and distribute money and you give them to NGOs, which are not registered, but have just passed through this very thick cliff of the first informal, unofficial formal, registration and, in fact, after, when the crew is out of time, you register them in full after you have paid them. The report is revealing. On the issue of the 'New Epirus', the person responsible, the President, says so. It says that there is essentially a first phase, registration and then the second phase comes. Thus, the fact that there is a request is simply equivalent to a registration, which means that the NGO in question seems to fulfil all the criteria. But there's no record. Not only is the positive assessment of the three-member committee appointed, but the decision with discretion then comes to the Special Co-ordination Secretary for Co-ordination of Co-ordinating Bodies. And here we say that this particular NGO has received over 2,000 000 as second funding, without, in essence, fulfilling the basic condition of registration. Nobody's talking about guilds. Don't go and put the conversation to another level. On strict terms you were supposed to put them to mislead public opinion and come and pay people who show you ISO that they were organizing cultural events and receptions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u181	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u182	Colleague, when someone raises tons, it means he's probably persuaded by the arguments of protology and he's looking to do a dentistry. The reality is that the NGO register...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u183	Don't underestimate our intelligence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u184	The ETSTIA programme, which operates by the European Union, sets out specific rules for the products it buys. The ESSTIA programme is not a NGO grant programme. It is a purchase program from the Greek public services of housing, interpretation and social function. The application of the rules governing the purchase of products is given because the Management Authority ensures and confirms that the products purchased by the public meet the requirements of ‘stability’, ‘interpretation’, ‘social function’ set by the Management Authority. Therefore, all payments made by the Management Authority are made for the purchase of products of the ‘ESSTIA’ programme which meet the invitation. From there on, thirty-four organisations have been registered in the NGO register. They're going down to a second round, seventy-seven. We have twenty-five ESTIA providers. I confirm that of the twenty-fifths - one of the two - it is one that you mentioned another organisation which has been operating for many years - have not completed its registration. There was a choice from the Ministry of Migration and Asylum in the summer of 2020 to give priority to having the necessary beds, responding to what the opposition at the time said, to have a smooth transition, and two organisations have not completed the registration. I have no problem admitting that. However, I want to support it as a political option, ensuring the public in the quality of the products it has received because it is independent of registration and I would like to propose the need for the programme to make a smooth transition - and it has finally made it - with twenty-five suppliers right now and have twenty-five thousand beds. These organizations are in the process of completing this registration. One is the one you mentioned. Another you have mentioned in your question has not applied for a programme, so it is just pending its registration for other objectives of its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u185	Two people have now spoken that the ESTIA programme is well aware of it. Mr. Kamines knows it very much as a mayor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u186	You guys first...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u187	All right, we've secured the High Commissioner, and now Mr. Metarakis. It is very good that this programme continues. Next, the second, with number 603/24-32021, is a timely question for the first cycle of SYRIZA MP Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Since the non-renewal of the trade unionist Dr. Kostassias." The Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, will respond. Here, Mr. Xanthi, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, unfortunately the study you have shown has made the question undisturbed. The two questions which are raised, namely whether you will extend the mandate of my colleague, Kostassias, and whether you will prevent a nurse-payer from being fired in the NHS, you have responded to them by dismissal. On 31-3 months of commemoration - which was a vengeance for this hospital doctor at the hospital of "Savvas" from the hospital in which he was serving at the "Savvas". Instead of renewing and extending the contract like all the rest of the thousands of hospitals, assistant doctors in the health system and such as the other auxiliary staff as you have legislated up to 31-10, Mr. Catasta was, exceptionally, fired by the public health system at the top of the third epidemic wave without any pretext, without any official reason, without any excuse. The only excuse is political re-organism and political persecution. Because Mr. Katarachias was President of the Association of Workers of the Hospital of San Savvas, because he was leading the way for the movement, because he raised problems of staffing and running the hospital, because he had reacted strongly to the attempt made by the hospital administration to target workers as the person responsible for disseminating the coronary to hospital patients, because, despite the fact that, you decided, despite the announcements of solidarity, the federation of hospital doctors, EINAP, the Medical Association of Athens, chaired by the District Administrator of Attica, Mr. Patoulis, despite the movement of support from colleagues throughout Greece, to proceed with this vengeance. And the point is that it is not an isolated event. At the same time, corresponding movements of intimidation and threats exist in any daring in the public health system to exploit its trade union competence and status to speak publicly about the wrong texts at this time. Thanasis Sioulis, the president of the employees of "ACHEPA" and Director of the Artificial Neffru Unit, is another, also characteristic, case. For people with a long term service in the public health system, the administrations have appealed to prosecutors and the disciplinary procedure is initiated and are called upon to testify on allegedly causing the spread of false news and panic in society. I think - and I say this without spins - that this road is slippery, it is unacceptable, it is disgusting. It has the potential for the necessary climate of consensus and association that it needs at this time to cope with the difficulty of crisis and pandemic. It offends the dignity, rights and intelligence - I would say - of workers in the public health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Xanthi. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, you probably had to table this question, to prove that you know and recognize the reality, because in your question, in the introductory part, you are talking about thousands of auxiliary people serving in the National Health System. Even late, it honours you to admit what we always say as a government, that we have strengthened the National Health System with more than ten thousand subsidiary doctors, nurses and other staff, and that is based on a process that you as government had established. Let me remind you that at the beginning of the pandemic, we had spoken of two thousand additional staff hired, and we have, at the moment, exceeded the ten thousand ancillary staff serving in the National Health System. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, let me say something else. Unionism is an institution in modern democracies. And what's a syndicate? The aim of promoting the rights and interests of its members. It is of course considered self-evident in any democratically organised society because it promotes the common interest. But that is another thing and the wording of false data and false facts. Because that's not a syndicate. It's dispersed make news. Of course the trade unions are also workers - we must not forget that - and I think that at least many times, most of them, we are in contact and in dialogue with them. It does not mean that we always disagree, but we must listen to them, and that is what we are doing and the channel is always open and clear. We are pursuing the dialogue and we are firmly opposed to any attempts to reduce the trade union movement, wherever they come from. Mr. Curse has chosen and appealed to justice. After all, we are living in the rule of law and everyone has the right to appeal to justice, since he believes that his rights are affected. The provisional order was rejected, as its previous request concerning the movement was rejected. And because you're talking about persecuting trade unionists, I find it hard to understand the following: Mr. Catalamas is the only trade unionist in Greece? So many other trade unionists why they weren't prosecuted, as you say? So don't generalize and let justice perform its function. And I believe you will agree that justice decisions are not allowed to intervene and we will never do so. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u192	I'm really incompetent. So you're about to tell us that Mr. Catalan has issues with justice, is being indicted for something criminal, is being controlled for something, so you're gonna let justice do its job? Are we serious, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u193	He's the one who appealed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u194	Do you realize what's going on? It is the first redundancy of a trade union worker in the public health system since post-mortem. It's a disgrace to you. It is a reproach for the political leadership that this act accepts. He calls for his term of office to be extended by the Director of his Radiation Diagnostic "Saint Savvas". He asks for his term of office to be extended by the Director of the "Salvation". He calls for his term of office to be extended by the Director of the Radiation Diagnostic "Salvation", all with the best words for his assistance. He works and provides specialized services for five years in the public health system. Is the term of office of all his other colleagues extended and Mr. Currency excluded? And now you want to present it to us as a legitimate decision? You really don't have a pin on the dignity of the people of the health system. It doesn't burn you. All you care about is that this pandemic is over, that the bourgeois is over and over with the state in which you have been forced to spread over the last year and a half, to support the public hospitals that you wanted to open on the market. That is the essence of the matter. Well, listen. There's no pretext. There's no reason. I am afraid, I am sure, that is why I have no evidence, but I do not believe that you in fact wanted to take the name of such a decision. I don't know who's pushing you, I don't know who makes you ignore contributions from scientific directors, trade unions, trade union law. Who is finally ruling this ministry? Let's get to know each other. And if you think you're going to try and succeed in turning a public health crisis into a democracy crisis, you're deeply mistaken. We will not allow you, not just us, to allow society and the democratic world to do so. Instead of creating a climate of contraction, recognition of workers' efforts in the health system, do you proceed to such a form of vengeance and aggressive moves? Is it possible - you're supposed to - be struggling to find doctors right now and tell us that from all the servants in the health system Mr. Catasta is missing? I mean, mercy. Mercy really. I close with that and thank you, Mr President. Forgive me the tension, but it really goes beyond any logic. And he's not the only one, I told you. It's Thanasis Siulis. The prosecutor has also checked the president of the hospital doctors in Thessaloniki in Daphne, Katsiba. Control has been carried out on the president of the Hospital Doctors Federation, Aphrodite Reggiou. I mean, mercy. Where's this situation going? Anyone who dares to raise problems in the health system will be at risk of repression and dismissal? It really outruns me. And can I tell you something about it? If you think that's how you'll rule from now on, the fall is irreversible and it'll be loud.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u195	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Blonde, I'm really surprised that you're twisting what I said. Did I say he has loose ends with justice?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u197	That's what you said, let justice do her job.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u198	The man appealed to justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u199	He appealed to defend your illusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u200	We have rule of law. Rule of law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u201	Please, both of them. Stay on the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u202	Everyone can claim his right and his rights. So, what do you think? Not to use his right to resort to justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u203	Apply the law, we say. The law says everyone deserves to be allowed to extend their term of office until 31-11. Because he...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u204	Read the law. That's not what the law says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u205	That's exactly what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u206	That's not what he's saying. "Possible" says the law and hospitals are these...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u207	Why is hell excluded?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u208	It is the hospitals who decide to extend contracts. Allow me to say that the practices of your day with the landings of "entry" to the administrations of hospitals have gone unreturned, Mr Xanthi. The hospitals have a self-defence, and in no case will we interfere in this. We are aware of the needs we have and in line with the demands we have made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u209	Is Mr. Catalan Excavating, Minister? Don't you have to? Managers say it's necessary. Why don't you extend his term, like all the other adjunctive doctors in the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Blonde, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u211	Mr. Xanthi, I've answered. In no case, there is no dismissal. We have a solution to the contract. You're trying to present things, magnifying them and winning impressions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, too. The third will then be discussed under number 606/26-3-2021, a top-level question by the Member of the Halkidiki Movement of Change Mr.Apostolos Pana to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Macedonia of the people of Ammoulian Halkidiki”. The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr. Kontozamanis. Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u213	Minister, Halkidiki has been in a lasting lockdown since August. As a result of this, apart from the mental fatigue of the citizens, it was to be affected by important sectors of the economy, as is of course, with the main activity of the leading sector, tourism, which has a significant impact on the economy of the citizens, but also on the GDP of the last period for the prefecture. At the same time, some problems were created in the vaccination centres of Halkidiki, as citizens of old were forced to travel long distances from their place of permanent residence. I would point out that it was necessary for some to travel up to two hundred kilometres to reach the vaccination centres and health centres. Nevertheless, I must admit that steps have been taken in recent years to restore this situation to vaccination centres. So, at the moment, Halkidiki is concerned about the course of vaccinations, where the vaccinations are at the moment, as a large volume of tourists and poster land workers from the Balkan countries will enter. It is also an important issue for COVID - free islands. And here we are in the number one island right now in central Macedonia, Ammouliani. According to the program "ELLELTHERIA" of the Ministry of Health, Ammouliani is in the fourth phase of the vaccination of the islands and as we are informed at the request of the Municipality of Aristotle of the local community and the institutions of the island, the statements by the citizens have begun to be vaccinated against the koroni. However, Minister, I would like to ask you this: what is the course of quarantine vaccination at the regional level of Halkidiki? What programming is there from now on in view of the tourist season? Can you give us specific dates, as far as the two phases of vaccination are concerned, to the inhabitants of Ammouliani? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u214	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Pana, with the vaccination data on 2 April, one million seven hundred seven hundred and seven hundred five hundred of our fellow citizens have been vaccinated in the framework of the 'ELDRTERY' vaccination operation and one million and thirty-five and three fellow citizens with the first dose of the vaccine. The rate of vaccination coverage of the population is 16.93%. In Halkidiki, to date, fifteen thousand and ninety fellow citizens have been vaccinated, ten thousand and eleven with the first dose and five thousand four hundred seventy-nine, both with the two doses of the vaccine. The rate of population vaccination in Halkidiki amounts to 14.72%. The total health structures of the Halkidiki Prefecture have been integrated into the vaccination programme and already operate eleven vaccination lines in six vaccination centres, with a daily capacity of seven hundred forty-four vaccinations a day. The vaccination of the people of Halkidiki is progressing smoothly and according to our planning. On 2 April 2021 there were thirty-three thousand seven hundred and fifty-six confirmed vaccination dates for the period up to 5 June, which are expected to increase in the next few days. Consequently, Halkidiki’s vaccination coverage rate will soon have exceeded 46.5% of the population. With regard to the vaccination schedule for the inhabitants of Ammouliani, following the vaccination programme for the islands of less than a thousand inhabitants, the 4th Health Region, to which the island belongs, has sent to the Municipality of Aristotle, where Ammouliani belongs, a relevant directive and already collects the elements of the residents who wish to be vaccinated. And our goal is to start vaccinations in the next few days. The second quarter of the year - we have repeated it - will have great availability of vaccines. We estimate to receive more than five million eight hundred thousands of doses of vaccines and the vaccination lines needed to vaccinate citizens are adjusted to increase the availability of vaccines and the confirmed dates. In any case, we therefore hope that, as programming develops, the population of Ammoulianis will be vaccinated and will, of course, be able, along with the rest of Greece, to slowly return to normality and be able to start in the tourist season. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u216	Here, Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u217	Minister, it is particularly important that at the moment there is a flow of vaccines and it can be done the best in Halkidiki, which you know is an excellent tourist destination. It is also very important that we have a timetable and we know what is going to happen in Ammouliani in particular. I would like to add that for us, all Halkidiki tourists are 'COVID-free', and every visitor can come, but I think that we must especially strengthen the old ages and vulnerable groups, put them first in order to deal with situations that may be difficult. At the same time, information and communication networks must be established with the municipalities and with the local community, the health structures of Halkidiki should be strengthened, and a special plan should be drawn up for the reception of incoming and domestic tourists. And it's particularly a safety leg. And here, Minister, you will allow me, as we are in front of the Recovery Fund, in the new NSRP, to invite you to Halkidiki as well, and I would ask you to reassign Halkidiki's health services and structures, as I think they also need support for administrative staff, but above all in an area with particular morphological conditions, we must reconstruct the establishment plan of Halkidiki. And it is very important through the financial instruments that come from this crisis that should make us more responsible and see further through the Recovery Fund, as I said before, and the ESDP, to strengthen these structures for particular regions, such as Halkidiki. So I invite you to come and draw up an operational, strategic plan for Halkidiki with a partnership between all the actors, to see the next day, not only of the prefecture, but also of the entire central Macedonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u218	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Pana, we have said this on several occasions - it has become clear - that our aim is to vacate the entire population of the country. We have ensured, we have ensured doses more than the population, so we believe that - and this seems to be the reality - as more and more of our fellow citizens are going to be vaccinated. Of course, there is a specific vaccination plan in the islands and especially in the smaller islands. We want not only the islands, but the rest of Greece to be vaccinated, so that in the summer - early summer - we have built the necessary immunity wall, so that we can welcome the tourist season. Also, with regard to what you said about the operational planning of the population, I would agree with you that we need to protect older ages and, of course, the vulnerable groups, and that is the programming that has been made by the National Committee for Vaccines. We started with the vaccination coverage of the elderly and beyond the opening at younger ages, we have already started vaccination in specific vulnerable groups. Product of time, this vaccination will go on to the rest of the population, but also to the population as a whole. In any case, I believe that the vaccination programme for the population is developing smoothly and will enable us, since we have the traditions of the vaccines planned, to be able to really relaunch our economy, to return to normal pace, and our country from now on, in the next period of time, and beyond this third wave of pandemic to be able to welcome the summer in safe waters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Minister. I would suggest, Minister, that the local boats in Ammouliani should also be concentrated. Now it's two, three. And now we are moving to the eighth Question No 614/29-3-2021 on the second question of the Member of Parliament's Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Exclusive responsibility of the Government for strengthening the operation of the General Hospital of Livadia - the General Hospital of Thevas". The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Here, Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are aware of the situation in the third wave of pandemic, the problems that arise and the burden of the ministry in relation to the general circumstances. Now at the local level and the current situation at Thevas and Livadia Hospitals, it turns out that a pandemic is far less than that of the citizens of the region. There are still serious shortages and gaps in medical staff, making it difficult to serve the people of Boeotia with more than 20 thousand inhabitants and many employees from Attica and other neighbouring prefectures. You know that there is the Neophyton Industrial Area and the largest industrial Zone in the country. At the Hospital of Livade it is a major issue to weaken departments, as shortcomings in cardiologists are recorded - there are two positions -, radiologists - two positions -, anesthetics - one position - and urologists, also one position. At the same time, there are shortages of medical staff at Thebes Hospital, which you know very well, since you have occasionally received representatives and protests and agony and requests. There is a big issue in anesthetics, pneumonologists and infectious agents, which makes its function insecure at this difficult time. The fullness, Minister, of both the covid beds -19 and the COVID -19 of the reference hospitals in the 5th Ministry, as in Attica, touches daily and in any case almost 100%, making the patient's stay in these hospitals of our prefecture a one-way path, despite the fact that they are not fully staffed. Thevas and Livadia Hospitals are health structures of the highest importance for the county, they have specialised departments, while at the same time they have taken over the burden of incidents of COVID -19 and it is necessary to support and strengthen and staff them. A year after the pandemic, Minister, there's not even a single IF bed. In view of the current situation, the qualification of hospitals as ‘Horizontal Hospitals’ does not in practice preclude the possibility of entering hospitals already charged with incidents, or the condition of hospitals and the need to incorporate patients and their immediate stay in another hospital with a clinical ICU. Substitution problems jeopardise adequate and quality care of patients systematically monitored or on call. You ask, Mr Minister: is there, in your opinion, adequate staff in hospitals for a comprehensive response to the incidents of COVID and, in particular, the incidents in need of introduction into ICU, given that there are already huge deficiencies in all categories of staff, while specialist doctors, such as pneumonologists and anesthetists, are few? How do you plan to fill out the gaps that exist in dealing with this situation? Finally, Minister, is it the government's intention to operate IF beds in the hospitals of the Regional Unit of Boeotia? And if so, is there a timeline? How will non-COVID -19 incidents be adequately addressed so as not to jeopardise the health and life of the citizens and avoid their financial burden? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u222	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Mulkiotis, Boeotia has two general hospitals, the Livades Hospital and one more in Thebes. We all know that there have been shortcomings in the health system and in recent years, particularly in the last year, because of the pandemic, and huge efforts have been made to fill gaps and shortcomings in the past and to a great extent we have achieved it. We've seen it too many times. Since the country's rule, we have been proclaiming two thousand five hundred seventy-four permanent medical staff. Thousands of four hundred and fifty are already serving. A notice that came out about nine hundred and forty seats a month ago is under way. I told a previous question to me that as regards ancillary staff the original design was for two thousand people and they have exceeded ten thousand people. And, of course, there are also other staff notices by means of an AEP which have either been completed or are running. We are therefore trying to take concrete action, as in the case of the notice of other staff of the 2K that we have achieved, and we have taken it, and are in the process of putting in hospitals five hundred and ninety nursing staff, who will actually give breath to our hospitals. The two hospital units cover specific needs of the citizens of Boeotia in specific specialties. There's an Artificial Nebula unit. You know that at the Livadeas Hospital they serve fifty doctors of various specialties and at the same hospital there is also a clinic for the exclusive hospitalization of patients COVID with a force of thirty-five beds. Similarly, the Hospital of Thebes serves thirty - five doctors of various specialties. And there is a CIVID case management clinical force of twenty-four beds. Both of these hospitals have been reinforced with other ancillary staff for forty-five people, of whom eighteen nursing staff for the Thebes Hospital and sixty-one persons, eighteen nursing staff for the Livade Hospital. In both hospitals, clinical COVIDs operate for suspected and confirmed coronary cases. If one of the clinical doctors judges that these incidents require intensive hospitalization, they are sent to nearby hospitals either in Attica, or to the General Hospital of Lamia. If a patient is also needed to incorporate a patient, there are anesthetists in the emergency departments that can and can support them until they are introduced into the intensive care unit. I will answer your question in the affirmative if it is necessary to create intensive treatment units or care facilities in these hospital complexes. Of course we need and are planning to further develop intensive treatment facilities for two reasons: firstly, the people of the region will be more easily served and, secondly, these hospitals, having such structures, will be able to support in the event of a crisis, such as the pandemic, Athens or the wider area, as is the case with the Halkidian Hospital. It is therefore a need that we must satisfy and do so. Let me stress once again that, whenever staff aid was requested in these two hospitals, this aid was given without second thought. The aid concerns not only subsidiary staff but also permanent staff. And I conclude, Mr President, by saying that in 2020 ten new doctors were assigned to these two hospitals, six in Leivadia and four in Thebes, and by the notice I told you a while ago, ten permanent posts of doctors were also announced, six in Livadia Hospital and four in Thevas. It is therefore clear that our efforts to strengthen the ESS does not stop and our goal is for the ESS at times to emerge strengthened, so that, after the crisis of this pandemic, these hospitals, like the hospitals of the rest of Greece, can provide uninterrupted health services and meet the needs of our fellow citizens. We have a clear political will, a practical and practical plan that is implemented in practice. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we really must all help to ensure that after the pandemic, we are able to get out of aid as a whole. I will not disagree with the general point you refer to, except that the CIVID cases within Boeotia are dealt with at Thebes and Leivadia Hospitals and if they need further care, they do not go to Athens, Attica. It's an order from the 5th DEO. They are treated within the 5th RCF. I shall submit the relevant document in the Minutes. It is forbidden to deal with Attica. No metaphor. Within the 5th RCF. That's what the commander of the 5th D.C. says. As far as the specific issues are concerned with Leivadia are concerned, and because we have to deal with the incidents, I should like to tell you, Minister, that there are three MFF beds. They're sitting. You see them and they're sitting. There is a lack of qualified staff in order to be able to staff the department and work. Three ΜΑF beds are sitting. It is a vaccination centre indeed and very important. It performs the hospital effectively the work it has. However, it is incomplete and it is not accidental for the workers' union. I shall submit to the minutes the relevant document presented to me by the Workers' Association of the General Hospital of Livadia. However, I should like to say that there needs to be a substantial response to the deficiencies and so that we do not have issues and loose ends for non-COVID patients who need treatment. It takes two cardiologists, two radiologists, an anesthesiologist and a urologist. They are asking for these, Minister. I'm telling you, because you said everything they asked was done. These requests have been submitted and have not been met. As far as the Hospital of Thebes is concerned, you know it's in an even more unfavourable situation. They fight the executives, the medical staff and the nursing staff to serve the citizens. When we speak of a race, we mean a race. But let me say something else. I don't know if you know, Minister, but has the hospital stayed with an anesthesiologist? Do you know that the surgery is suspended for 15 days at the moment we're talking about, in the middle of COVID? He's got four beds of meth, Minister. They're ready and there's four ICU medical posts, which aren't published. The beds are sitting and we're looking at them! Fully equipped, 'the box', if I may speak, for the people. It's data stuff. That's what they say. Minister, it is not the Member's agony, it is the agony of doctors, it is the agony of nurses, unions that work and of the citizens. That's why we're telling you. That is what we are expressing the anguish. Especially at Thebes Hospital, they don't get surgery. They're done beyond the subject of pathologists, which you know very well. Organic positions and there are no doctors there, they're out. They're still out, Minister. He's in another hospital. He needs pathologists and they don't exist. There is a vaccinated centre indeed, but no doctor existed at pandemic, no doctor's intake or placement. So what do we ask for, and also medical staff and medical staff? It is a matter of urgency and - and I quote - an appeal: fifteen nurses are needed. SOS! It's not coming out. They can't go any further. The incidents are increasing, they are not decreasing, Mr President, and we have renovations, and that is the worst, an unfavourable element. There is an appeal from the officials of the Thebes Hospital, the medical, the nursing staff and the union, to ask for weapons to defeat any phenomenon there is. They're racing every day. We need to help them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u226	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Mulkiotis, I think the target is common. No one doubts. We are all seeking to strengthen all the structures of the prefecture, and also throughout Greece, in order, especially at this time, to meet the increased requirements due to the pandemic. You know that there are specialties in which any notice we can make comes out of barren. In particular, because you mentioned the specialty of anesthetics doctor, I would remind you that, where there are empty organic positions, we seek to publish them and, above all, to pay these posts. We have also given specific motives so that in these specialties, such as anesthesiology, for example, there is an exception to the obligation to fulfil a rural service. You mentioned that the incidents from Thebes and Livadia are only served within the health region concerned. At the moment, the country is giving us a huge battle against the pandemic and we have stressed it, we have made it clear, we show it in practice that the whole country is operating as a health region. Therefore, if a fellow citizen needs more care or has to be dissected, we certainly do not look at which hospital he is or in which healthcare area. It will be crossed where it needs to be transported, where it can be served. You also know that in recent years there has been particular pressure in Attica and that is why several incidents may not come to Athens, but are carried out in hospitals of the 5th Health Region or in other areas. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the debate of the tenth third under number 610/28-3-2021 on the second-cycle question, by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'The Government turns the 'Dromocaete' into a store of mental patients with a coronary'. Of course, I imagine that Mr Arsenis also includes the workers at the 'Dromocaete', not as mental patients. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, I shall also refer to the curse. I was twice at your ministry when you didn't accept any trade unions to tell what? You can explain why you're firing him. Are you dismissing a doctor because he was Chairman of Workers? Tell us why. Are you dismissing him because he protested about the SAD that went to be imposed on three workers who stuck COVID? Tell us why. When you fire an radiologist at "Saint Savva" to hire a radiologist to come after September? Do you fire a doctor in the country's largest ICU, in the "Salvation" without replacement?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u230	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u231	Is that what you're doing? You are now motivated by animal instincts to serve private interests, to serve the privatisation of the ESS without reaction. That's what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u232	You're inaccurate again! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u233	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u234	The shame is only yours in the eyes of the whole society. But let's go to the Tromocaete, where you do the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u235	To withdraw, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u236	Rescind the dismissal...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u237	You will speak, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u238	In the "Dromocaete" together with the "Dafni", which is the hospitals that make the capital's psychiatric papers, they ask workers to stop on-calls in order to track down the people who are already in the area. You, after moving on to the conversion of burns, infirms, heart surgery units to COVID, the conversion of entire hospitals, such as "Sisminoglio", "Red Cross" etc. in COVID, in substance and the "Attica", series are psychiatric clinics. The Hospital's Psychiatric Clinic "Dromocaete" was transformed into a CIVID clinic, without the minimum conditions being met, without the qualified staff having any means, without infrastructure for patients by the majority of sixty-five, with many additional texts. We are told by the skilled - we hope that you will not fire them for their statements - in the absence of doctors and specialists and in cognitive competence. You have unofficially converted psychiatric therapy to a CIVID clinic and you have no 24-hour coverage even from a pathologist or a doctor of another specificity associated with the coronary. The hospital's pathologists are three, one not to inspect exclusively in the hospital, a doctor's contract ends and is not enough to cover even the newspapers. Now you have them do the vaccinations, reducing the work they can do to the CIVID clinic. They don't have costumes, glasses, shields, high respiratory protection masks in sufficient quantities. The psychologist, Mrs Koutsanelle - we hope you won't fire her too - says they've locked parts, locked staff and patients without a visiting room, without being able to get out, and this creates an explosive situation for patients. I really expect you to answer all this, but tell us about the Curse and why you fired him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u239	Mr Arseni, because the Minister has asked you to withdraw, I would suggest that you find a more political term for the word "live" and change it in the Minutes. Otherwise, all right, it's your right to say whatever you want to stay that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, revenge is an animal instinct and the government's attitude of vengeance is a vengeance, so I do not withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u241	Yes, sir. So, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arsenis, I will answer first of all the question you have asked and not what you want. Be more careful with the words you use. I'm sorry to say it, but most of the questions you ask to the Ministry of Health are inaccurate. Finally, you come to read when you ask these questions and you ask us various issues that have to do with the functioning of the health system. You're trying to create impressions. If you don't know the subject, read and come here read. As far as your question is concerned, there are three categories of hospitals that we have excluded from the development of exclusive beds for coronary patients: oncology, pediatrics and psychiatrics. The "Dromocaete" is psychiatric. At least I hope you know that. This means that no - nor will be developed - beds of exclusive coronary patients, so that outpatients can be accommodated. This, of course, does not mean that it is lacking in preparation to deal with possible cases of other hospitals. The provision of personal protective equipment for staff and patients is regularly progressing, ensuring full competence, ensuring that personnel, patients and escorts, i.e. those who come to the hospital, are protected to the maximum extent. Diagnostic coronary detection checks shall be carried out twice a week. All patients entering the hospital and specially designed cabins for the hospitality of internal patients suspected or confirmed cases are also controlled. Mr Arseni, we will not follow you in your tactics, in the designations you are using, in your attempt to dramatize situations. I shall refer to facts. A total of seventy cases have been detected, of which fifty-seven relate to patients with mild symptoms, who remain in hospital structure. The first cases were reported in the psychiatric section, which was formed directly for the hospitalisation of patients with mild symptomaticity and then tests and molecular tests were carried out in all hospitals and staff. The worsening ones were treated directly in general hospitals with organised CIVID -19 clinical trials. This is the reality and can happen within or outside any hospital, when the pandemic is on the rise. For our part, we have taken all the necessary steps that I have mentioned. We're not standing on them. We continue at a more intensive rate, particularly with the vaccination of the population and health workers who were first vaccinated, and today those who have changed their minds can be vaccinated. We are moving on to further reinforcement of staff structures. In the 'Dromocaete' I would remind you that today they are serving 60 assistants. I told you at first that it would be nice to read before you came to the House with questions. I shall refer to the exclusion of the 'Romocayte' from the inauguration programme of the Attica hospitals. There is no possibility at all. The hospital will continue to on-call properly. Coronovir cases amount to almost half of all patients on the newspaper of hospitals. But the ESS is here for the other patients to whom we have to provide equal health services. That is what we are doing and we will continue to do with the face of challenges and difficulties, such as this pandemic. Be sure that from this crisis the National Health System will come out stronger and stronger. I can assure you once again that we have taken care of it. We take the necessary steps to ensure that for any citizen we are hospitalized in the health systems of the health care system, the provision of services is as far as possible, safe and of quality. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u243	Because we have a problem with the tables, which we will solve now, I would ask you very much to monitor the time and keep up with them. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u244	Minister, you are not inconceivable. You're indifferent. You are an indifferent government against the health crisis. You're saying we're the ones that aren't. We, who read the reports from the OENGE, the specialist doctors at the 'Dromocaete', the psychologist who named and publicly denounced these and the WTO. Everyone in the health field is impassable. Only you who have abandoned the public health system are reading. After reading, then, answer us. Is there 24-hour coverage with a qualified pathologist or a doctor of relevant specialists in practice? Is there a 24-hour microbiological and radiological function, as it should? Is there any possibility in the 'Romocaete' for molecular control over all imports a year after the pandemic began? Are there sufficient uniforms, glasses, shields and masks? All doctors all federations of workers and doctors in public hospitals report that they do not exist. Tell us your own reading of reality. You will be left alone once more in your own reading. You have created a virtual reality for health. And you know that it is not true, but it suits you because your main plan is to end the epidemic and the obligation to rely on the public health system to proceed with privatisation. This epidemic is not a goal, it does not make you move to strengthen public health and protect lives. It makes you make small management moves, really no matter what the impact on health, so that the next day you will be ready to privatise it. That's what we see in hospitals. You're telling us here that you're interested in other diseases, when you've converted burn, febrile, heart surgery units into COVID-19 units, while we have data that tells us that in 2020 compared to 2019 we had six thousand more deaths than non-COVID. That's your policy. We invite you to change course. We do not care whether politically we disagree with you. At the moment, we have a major health crisis and we should be able to agree in this Chamber that one day quarantine costs us as much as a thousand meths would be. And you didn't! You could have hired all the necessary doctors and you fired the Curse from the ITH in the "Save". Change course!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u245	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, what to answer first. You tell us that we are using the public health system necessarily so that we can privatise it after the pandemic. I mean, mercy! We strengthened it and you will shortly tell us that we did not make any IFs when we have more than doubled them. You tell us that we have not made any intakes when we have exceeded ten thousand subsidiary recruitments. See the numbers, read in "DICAHY" our decisions, go for a walk to hospitals. You're telling us about personal protective equipment. Go to the "Romocaete" to see whether they exist or not. Did you see abroad in the first wave of pandemic what personal protection means were used by other countries, more wealthy states, more sophisticated, more advanced health systems? It has not been missing, nor will it be missing an individual protection instrument from any health in our country. We have taken care to protect those who provide health services, because they must be protected first, so that they can continue unnecessarily. We have the lowest rates of health care in the National Health System and we do everything possible to support the National Health System every day. You have seen recently how the world sees the National Health System, how much he trusts it, how much the national health system, the public, has risen to the conscience of the Greek people. Do you think that we did all this because we wanted people to gain confidence in the National Health System to privatise it? I'm really sorry. You are confusing the public health system with public-private partnerships. We have said this many times, they are financial instruments. You forsake us when we do not use the private sector and when we use it, you tell us "Why you used it or didn't check it from the beginning". Decide what you want to do at last. A final comment on what you said about the 'Romocaité'. Microbiological and laboratory laboratories in case of urgency shall be covered by the ‘Dafni’. Of course, there's cover in the evening by a qualified pathologist in the hospital. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u247	The ninth is to be discussed under number 617/29-3-2021, a topical question by MP B1' North Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis, Minister for Health, on the subject: 'State self-diagnosis test for coronary prevention'. The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Kontozamanis. Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u248	Mr Contozamanis, first of all thank you, as always, for being here yourself to answer my question. I wanted to ask you why, Minister, you have taken the trouble to triple the stress. I heard you say that a moment ago and I don't understand why. I would remind you of a statement by the Minister of State, Mr Gerapitris, at the beginning of the autumn, saying that if we had more intensive, more people would die. Either there is a helmet or there is an absolute dismay to the government officials, because you seem to think that most of the dead are not increasing, unlike Mr. Gerapetritis. To be serious, look, Minister, here with the self-tests in my question today we have - I think - the epitome of what you are accused of from almost all society, namely that you systematically transfer your responsibilities as state officials and as government officials to the citizens and I would also include the pharmacists. Listen to it and tell me what it looks like to you. According to all your design, citizens are invited from the beginning of April, the "run" month, to be supplied free of charge from the pharmacy alone two tests weekly. These tests will be carried out on their own, as they alone will draw the medical conclusion if they are or are not contaminated and they will be informed of the relevant services if the result is positive, with what this implies, that is to say, they will lose some of them while they are already pressed after ten years of crisis, and so on. In fact, for the process, Mr. Kontozamanis, the Ministry of Civil Protection has been recruited. And I really want to ask you what the civic ministry might have to do with self-tests. Why? Does Mr Chrysochide have to do everything in this country? Minister, I ask you directly so that I don't get over the time we have here. Our National Health System is falling apart. It's a government statement that yesterday sixty people were waiting for someone to die in order to take their place in an ICU. You know that better than I do. It's a state statement yesterday. So while the system is falling apart and there are no IF and medical staff, will you continue as a government to transfer the responsibilities and the obligation to provide care and medical care for all citizens to the citizens themselves and, indeed, with methods that are questioned by experts because of their credibility, but also because they are used by non-qualified staff, i.e. by the citizens themselves? Secondly, will your Government continue the policy of photographic competitions, as is the case with the 10 million you will give for self-tests, for example 'days', instead of investing in the immediate creation of a network of centres for mass tests across Greece, in order to actively deal with the virus with targeted and non-horizontal measures of universal bans and lockdowns? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u249	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Gregoryde, I'm going straight to the point of your questions and I'm going to answer them. You are talking about transferring responsibility from the state to citizens. What conclusion is this and where does it come from? In the strategy of carrying out diagnostic tests, which are molecular tests and rapid antigen tests, we add the self-diagnostic tests. We don't find the wheel. This has already started abroad. Read. Today I read it at the BBC. In England two tests a week start in the self-diagnostic population, so that every citizen can do so alone, and that concept has self-diagnostics, it is an extra one. A study in America from Yale University showed that if all the population had self-diagnostic tests, it would have saved two million eight hundred thousand infections and fifteen thousand seven hundred deaths. So I repeat that we do not discover the wheel. We are already in the first place, because we are among the first countries to have a large population as a whole, we are moving towards the implementation of this strategy, which I repeat is complementary to the tests that we have carried out so far and which exceed 50 000 per day. We have reached all sixty thousand and are constantly growing. Our aim is to prevent and identify asymptomatic vectors of the virus and its mutations, because we know the seriousness of this wave because of British mutation. We're looking forward, we're not waiting. We are not inactive and we provide for this strategy so that as soon as possible we can get winners out of this pandemic. I think I also answered your question that it is a controversial practice. It is a practice that has been started and followed in all the countries of the world. You spoke of a photographic competition, and why you did the competition a public authority. The General Secretariat for Civil Protection is a public competent authority, can competition and, of course, due to urgency, it has been done by the Civil Protection Agency, respecting all the conditions. In fact, we also have a decision of the Court of Auditors, which refers to contracts and the award of the tender. If you think someone's favoured by the process, say it. Because we have also seen the Civic Opposition also accusing us of a photographic competition, of favouring a company. Thirty-one companies submitted tenders, finally five guaranteed the tender and none of the companies submitted were the company for which the Qualified Opposition was clearly spoken. I mean, imagine how photographic he was. Not one or two, but thirty one companies participated in the competition. I'm afraid you're trying to get over SYRIZA, who ran to award the competition to a particular multinational company and blame us for something that never happened. Mr. Gregoryid, you also say in your question that the National Health System is falling apart. The staff at the National Health System last year are fighting to stand up to the health system and to meet the needs of our fellow citizens. I'm sure you have no idea what would happen if the National Health System collapsed. And I'll repeat it. We have seen it happen in other countries, we have seen what the collapse of the National Health System will mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Contozamani, please tell the rest in your dentistry, because we've reached five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u252	I shall conclude, Mr President. We said the National Health System is pressed, it's on its edge, but it's standing up and continues to provide health services. We're giving the battle over all the obstacles. We know that our resources are not inexhaustible and we have all exaggerated ourselves and, above all, the workers in the National Health System. We have limits to the beds we have for hospitality, and every day we increase the availability of the National Health System, which means we work with design and methodicality so that we can with the resources we have to cope with. We all know that resources are not inexhaustible. When you build a building, you don't build it in order to withstand an earthquake of fifteen toches. There's no health system that can withstand pandemic. But we've made it and we'll make it by the end. Make sure we get the winners out of this adventure. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kontozamanis, the fact that our national health system has collapsed is the mere fact that, for the last three or four weeks, all the doctors in COVID who are hospitals expressly state that they are making a choice between the most likely to survive and the one who has less chance of surviving. If this does not sound like a collapse in the ears of the competent minister, one wonders what the collapse would be. Mr Contozamani, I know very closely how tired you and your Minister are. I know you've given yourself the best. And I don't say that as a gift to you because we're in public space, I say it's why it's like that. You know, however, too, Mr Contozamanis, that with the memoranda signed by your Government and all the Memorandum Governments you are not allowed to use money that our country has for health. You've been banned from recruiting permanent doctors for ten years, not now. It was forbidden in PASOK - then KINAL - SYRIZA was forbidden in Syriza, and is now forbidden in you. However, the fact that a choice is made between whether I and Mr Arsenis are going to die is that you agree to ban you from institutions or troikas, or else you want to tell them, to strengthen the National Health System. And now you will allow me to say the following, in response to what you have said to me. Firstly, since Friday 19 March we have been informed by pharmacists that self-tests will be available via the pharmacy in the country. Until then, we didn't know. This alone, without any programme, no protocol of procedures and security, no platform, no recording, no tracking. The Government is essentially sacrificing the same test procedure to naturally hide the lack of primary health and the state of the National Health System. We, as a parliamentary power, demand to know what this is all about. We want the reliability data of these tests to be made public immediately. Do you know why I'm telling you? Because despite the investigations of the American university you have invoked, I inform you, if you do not know and look for it, that the self-tests from the United States of America's Pharmaco-Food and Food Organisation have not been approved. They have not been approved for this use. The Agency also says that under very specific conditions, the best, ideals, their credibility does not exceed 60%. What is the meaning of this move, then, if not communication? However, there is a possibility that we will eventually lead the pandemic to an explosion instead of a recession with the pharmacopoeia in the pharmacies and mainly with four of our ten fellow citizens having false results. That's a statistic. I'm not saying it. With a photographic competition. You said who did the contest and I heard it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But, Mr Contozamanis, ten million tests must be carried out and there are many millions of tenders. These should be delivered within seven days of the announcement. How stupid can it be anywhere on earth, not in Greece, not by you, can we make Mera25? In seven days or ten days how was the other guy informed to know how many millions? I will finish quickly, Mr President. I won't have your time. Excuse me, but I really have to tell you. You are also asking pharmacists, where appropriate, to help this process. What are the security protocols, Mr. Contozamani, for citizens and pharmacists? With what training will the pharmacists carry out this? Which place? How will eleven thousand pharmacies serve our country's population four times in a single month? Because that's what self-tests predict, that eleven thousand pharmacies will serve forty million Greeks in a month. What will this crowding have to do with the spread of the disease? And I shall end, Mr President. You ask the government to carry out medical operations without the cooperation of the medical community, without epidemiological surveillance, without information, without education, so that we can re-enter individual responsibility. What is the purpose of this project, however, when there are already EGE stadiums ready, with organisation, education and trained officials to do just that. In the case of home-based examination, who will ensure, Mr Contozamanis, that the test is carried out correctly, that no false results are given due to mistakes in the procedure? Where will the materials possibly contain COVID -19 be discarded? Cleaning workers aren't people? How are they protected? Then, when the citizen himself is obliged to register the result of the test, who, Mr. Kontozamani, will plead positive, and will lose more of the blame for this economic impoverishment that has been brought to bear after four or five Memorandums? Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u255	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Gregoriadis, I would ask you and those of you and those of my fellow Members in this Chamber to look at patient choices in order to introduce them into an intensive care unit, not to do so again, because it has not happened during the pandemic in our country or in the past. There's no patient choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u257	I read the government's announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u258	The other is waiting for the choice, Mr Gregoriadis. First of all, these cases provide respiratory support and, of course, they are served within a short period of time. Now, because you referred back to the self-tests, I think it is clear from what I said that this is an additional action in the strategy we have on the tests. It is also clear that these tests will not be carried out at pharmacies. They are characterised by European legislation as self-diagnostic, home-diagnostic. The competent Regulators in Europe, following laws, approve them in order to have self-diagnosis. So everyone can do it at home and there are specific instructions. And they differ, if you want, from the rapid tests on this part in particular, namely, how a citizen can understand, read the instructions for use, how the instructions for use are written, how he can do it alone in order, above all, to catch the asymptomatics. Of course, there are procedures for stating this test. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] I'll tell you something else. If anyone does not want to say so, at least it will be self-limited. And that's a profit. But there are procedures, there is the confirmatory test in order to safeguard one's rights. And what you're saying is that someone will be afraid to tell his employer so he won't lose his job. The rights of the worker and of all those who make use of these tests are fully guaranteed and there are procedures to be declared. And, of course, we want with the weapon what we have at our disposal to be able to gradually open up economic activity in our country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Minister. Good evening. Good week, me too. The first question to the Minister of Culture and Sport will be debated now under number 600/22-2021. The first question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Mr. Xenophonta (Fota) Baraliakos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Archimentations of Sports Federations". Mr. Baraliaco, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u260	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, over the past few days the planned archaeology was carried out in most sports federations, where the new institutional framework adopted by the present Government with Nos 4639/2019 and 4726/2020 was first implemented. Despite unfavourable conditions due to pandemic, sports reform was implemented and transformed into practice. Nevertheless, Minister, there have been various reactions from different directions for the fact that the electoral processes have taken place at a juncture which does not favour mass participation and has not given the necessary time in the sports world to adapt to the new data. For the first time, the 'ZEEA' electronic voting system has been implemented with a view to the transparency and immunity of election results in order to reassure the concerns of representatives of the sports world. With a view to the election results and the way in which the electoral procedures under the electronic voting system were launched, how do you assess the digital transformation of elections on the basis of the Register of Sports Associations? Has all the conditions required for the safe conduct of the results been met? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr. Baraliaco. The Secretary of State for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Eleftherios Aeggeakis. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor for three minutes. Please keep them. The question is clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u262	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to inform you that the antiquities in forty two sports federations in our country have been fully completed, in order, with the participation, for the first time, of legal unions. I'm going to talk about the elements that, really, are interested in those who are watching us in my dentistry. I am, however, pleased that our sport reform has also brought about significant changes in the field of antiquities. A reform absolutely necessary to eliminate distortions and problems of the past. What was the truth in the past? The institutional framework that existed had incredible pathogens and left windows and incredible irregularities, so that phenomena of anarchy and opacity prevail in several federations. What do I mean? There were no electoral situations or a common register, no list, a database, that is to say, which includes legitimate sports clubs that would have the right to vote, so that they participate in the electoral procedures of clubs - seals or clubs that did not even meet the requirements of the law. There was no obligation to publish electoral lists with the result that electoral lists were sometimes not published so that there would be self-evident transparency. There were cases where the electoral lists were published but only a few minutes before the elections were held, without any right and no real control. In any case, there was absolutely no control as to whether the bodies involved in the elections fulfilled the legal requirements. There was the possibility to participate by proxy in the general meetings of the bodies. That's good, that's a proxy vote. Any member of the club, new member, proxy, non-member could vote by representing the club or a person representing dozens of federation. Incredible things and yet truly, a field bright for opacity and anarchy. The results? Known! It saves administrations, complaints about mismanagement, complaints by athletes about conduct that have nothing to do with the principles of sport. What have we really done? We are committed to putting an end to this unreserved situation, to putting an end to the pathogens that afflict sport. We did not hesitate, Mr Colleague, to be unpleasant to some colleagues in our party, even to go against the gainful decades. When we started sports reform in Law 4639/2019, where we set limits on ages and births, we were strongly criticised and many pressures from opposition parties. But the Prime Minister has closed his ears and has not been left to the various pressures and has given a clear command and support to dare the sports reform that we are continuing to pursue. These twenty months, Mr. Baraliaco, we have achieved a great deal. We broke down, gave voice to the athletes, and we support the healthy part of our sports family. What have we achieved? We set limits on the terms and ages of the new boards of federations. The same person may be elected three times as President of the sports federation. Furthermore, since it has been two consecutive times in any other executive federation post, it may be elected if two years have elapsed since its last term of office. We set the seventh year as the age limit for election in any place on the board of directors of sports federations. The result? Finally, the administrations and, of course, the necessary renewals have also been made. We are strengthening transparency, democracy and participation. We've created the register. Only legal and active sports clubs have the right to participate in the elections. The electoral lists are sent to the General Secretariat of Sports for inspection and published. There's housekeeping everywhere and transparency. The electoral list includes only clubs that are active, legally and have special athletic recognition and have been registered in the General Secretariat of Sports Registry, now eliminating clubs - seals. It is expressly forbidden to participate in the antiquities of sporting organisations. The right to participate has every regular member of the board of directors, and of course we have ensured that the procedures are in place, that antiquities, with a three-member committee which is headed by a lawyer. Of course, the federations' elections are now being held with a single ballot consisting of two parts. The first section is the candidate presidents and the candidates in the administration. I heard too much that we lost, we lose, they win. I have one word to say. The opposition parties throughout the previous period and especially in November 2019, when we passed our first provision, the principle of sport reform, told us that these provisions with the limits of birth and age are unconstitutional and will be suppressed in the courts. Finally, no one appealed. On the other hand, with these provisions, we had new administrations, we had incredible renewal, which I will speak to you in my dentistry, and they are fighting that they have won. But with an anti-constitutional law? Who are they laughing at? And if they won, but all the old men and ten, twenty, thirty, and fifty years in command left, but we are still standing here to continue our sport reform, who lost and who has finally won? It is good, then, to see the image of the sport building as a whole and I am sure that every serious and all healthy part of the sporting family has come to its conclusion. We continue unsatisfactory in the sports reform that we have founded as a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u263	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Baraliakos has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, Minister, to focus a little more on the specific issue of transparency and the way in which elections are conducted in sports federations. Although a relative parafiscality has been developed in recent times to create impressions on various information sites, for how the electoral processes took place, it is clear that the results of the elections in federations show exactly the opposite. The question therefore arises, Minister, and following on from the initial question how exactly the intransigence of the results has been ensured through the electronic process, what has been demonstrated by the 'actinography' of the results so far and whether there is evidence of the much-conscious renewal that we have all sought together with the change in the legislative framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr. Baraliaco. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u266	Thank you very much for your questions, because they demonstrate your real interest in sport, which is of course well known both in your prefecture and in your plenary and in your colleagues, with whom we are working closely. My dear colleague, we have succeeded in holding the federation elections unnecessarily. The current juncture with measures to prevent the spread of the coronary, which do not allow the concentration of many people in the same area, has given us the most appropriate opportunity, the best of all - as I would say in terms of football and sports - to establish the possibility of introducing new technologies and the internal functioning of sports bodies. We have again set strict criteria. We have ensured by transparent procedures, in order and in economic terms, and above all by ensuring the integrity, secrecy and integrity of the votes, resulting in the core of democratic operation. And that is why we heard criticism in this Chamber again when we brought the amendment on the alternative we gave for the electronic vote using the special information system of the ELDR system and heard what we heard! - until we had a server in the General Secretariat of Sports, to interfere with the results! However, my dear colleague, the greatest response to all these criticisms was electoral procedures themselves. Forty-two sports federations have completed their antiquities with absolute success, with democratic and, above all, impracticable procedures. Election has been completed in absolute order. Until 31 May 2021 the other federations, namely - in basketball, boxing, karate, and physical dimensions, which have temporary administrations by decision of the court, apart from physical dimensionation, which is newly established and has just one year of operation. Our sports reform and its parts under Law4639 and Law4726 have already yielded fruit. They have already formed another bright and renewed environment. The new administrations will be the clean oxygen in the body of sports federations. Digital transformation with the Register of Sports Associations and the ZEUS poll, the establishment of age limits and the election to the new sports councils of many, but too many athletes and world champions give another note, another optimism for the entire sports family. We have a very important renewal to the vast majority of the new administrations, of course - I mentioned them last Thursday in plenary, I repeat them today - we will work closely and constructively with all the new administrations for the further development of their sport. On this occasion I would like to give you some quantitative information on the federal elections, starting with the Olympic federations. In the archaeology of the twenty-four Olympic sports federations, participation reached 98%. A thousand eighty - twenty - two amateur unions voted out from the thousand eight hundred fifty - nine who had the right to active and legitimate right. And, of course, we have more than five hundred unions who will take part in the elections in the coming period in the election process of basketball. At 20 of the twenty-four federations, which is 83%, we have a new president. Here to mention also the PDO, where Thodoris Zagorkis took over and to which the unions did not vote, but the associations voted. 58% reached the renewal of members in the compositions of the new administrations. In other words, we have an eighty-eight new members against a hundred thirty-eight old members who did not participate in previous administrations. 16% was involved in sports or sports. In other words, we have fifty-eight Olympics and champions worldwide as members of the new management boards. Of course, this participation will increase significantly, as on several new management boards the additional member to be a representative of the active athletes has not yet been designated by law. 21% was women's participation. In other words, we have a total of sixty-seven Members of the new administrations. Three female presidents were elected against one who was in the previous period. But let us also see the non-Olympic federations of non-Olympic sports. In the archivisms in eighteen non-Olympic federations we had 95%. They voted for four hundred eighths of an amateur sports club from the five hundred eight who had the right to vote as active, legally and registered in our register. At 12 out of the eighteen federations, which is 68%, we have a new president. The new administrations have been renewing their membership membership by 50%. In other words, we have eighty-four members against eighty-three who participated in the outgoing administrations. In 5% was the participation of athletes and sportsmen, eight champions as members of the new administrations, and that percentage is going to increase because we will have the definition of active athletes in their administrations, as our law defines, while we have 25% of women's participation in the new administrations. Five female presidents were elected against one who was the previous period. The numbers speak for themselves. The constant effort, but also the commitment to our sport policy for transparency, democracy and households, as well as enlargement and clean oxygen, results. I am tabling both tables in the Minutes with the detailed figures for both the Olympic and the non-Olympic federations, which are the clearest way, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy, who have put back on the start and development of this sport reform, that all this effort was worthwhile. Renewal everywhere, clean oxygen in all Greek sport. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augias, presents for the minutes the above tables, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Subsequently, the fifteenth under number 616/29-3-2021 a new question for the second cycle of the Athens MP of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantinos Scandalidis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of "The risk of enormous damage by the Greek State since the time and the way in which the Bank of Piraeus's Equatorial Capital increase takes place, is not discussed due to the impediment of Mr. The timely question under number 611/28-3-2021, second cycle by MP B2' West Athens, Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of "The olive oil is turned into an unhealthy product through the distortions of Nutri - Score". Let's go to the first with number 601/22-3-2021 topical question of the second question of the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukorous, to the Minister of Culture and Tourism, on the subject of 'Restructure the professional categories of football'. Mr. Bukkaro, good evening, good week. You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President, good evening and good week. I say, since we have a problem in the computer panels, we can take advantage of it and talk about pleasant things like football. Let's get out of here a little bit, get out of the marilla created by the unprecedented pandemic. Minister, I tabled this timely question in the light of the legislative initiative you are about to take, and you have already announced, by tabling a draft law on the restructuring of professional football categories. The structural weaknesses of Greek football have been known for decades. The pandemic has come to achieve yet another powerful blow, with the break of championships, football matches without a fan audience. I think that there is no more appropriate timing for you to take such a legislative initiative to restructure football categories. Therefore, in view of your legislative initiative, I would like to ask you, if the issues of the amount of equity, the letter of guarantee of the OAUs and, in particular, of the financing of "STIHMA", Minister, because I understand very well that you are going to a shrinking of professional and professional soccer categories. We will now have Super League 1 and Super League 2. On old terms, we will say that basically the Third National, as we know it, leaves the First and Second Nationals. I understand that you're making an effort to restructure, especially economics. And if that is done, so will football in general, I want to believe. Therefore, these issues are essential, i.e. equity and guarantee funding. Also, since Football League championships were launched, I would like you to tell us if you have come up with how many teams will be held by Football League in Super League 2. I'll come back to my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, too. The Secretary of State for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Eleftherios Aeggeakis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Bukkaro, you are a well-known soccer fan, but you have raised too many questions. You will allow me to focus on the first part by describing what the situation is today, how we have arrived here and in the second part I will try to answer some of the dozens of questions you have raised in your protagonists. I am pleased to have this opportunity to respond from the Step of the House and to develop an issue which has been afflicted and afflicted - I would say - by the football community at a professional, but above all at an amateur level. Unfortunately, my dear fellow Member, the manoeuvres made by the previous government have been distinguished and even distinguished today by enormous cuff. Much more, I am pleased that you have asked me this question, because I know that it 'eats' you, and you are concerned with everything that is going on in the football community, in the football structure. We all remember how sincerely you came out before the vote of my predecessor's amendment and demonstrated its weaknesses. So, it's a great opportunity to see the design and how much preparation we've done to regulate the restructuring of professional football categories, unlike the previous government. But let us remember here what had happened, what has happened so far and how we got here. My predecessor, Mr Vassiliou, with one amendment, set the framework currently in force in the field of occupational categories. In particular, Article 5(1) of Law No 4612/2019 provides for three professional categories of two existing, Super League 1, Super League 2 and Football League, involving exclusively teams of football anonymous companies. The Third National category championship, organized by the Greek Football Federation, is of amateur character and only participates teams of football clubs made up of amateur football players. Another point worth standing is equity. Under paragraph 2 of Article 5 for the Super League 1 OEMs, the equity capital shall not be less than EUR 500,000. For Super League 2 it is not allowed to be less than EUR 100,000 and for Football League less than EUR 30,000, please! As far as television rights are concerned, central management is provided for Super League 2 and Football League, in contrast to what applies to Super League 1, Article 7 of Law 4612. What did Mr. Vasiliadis really want to achieve with that? As he himself said in this Chamber, restructuring the new categories in football by introducing new rules, to have viable professional football teams, not to live again - he said - the phenomena that we have experienced and to leave in the middle of the championship tens of teams. What did Mr Vassiliade achieve, really? A hole in the water, Mr. Comrade, a hole in the water! Football League was provided for a share capital of just EUR 30 000, which did not favour the credibility of the participating groups. We do not forget, too, that he was wronged by many groups, particularly the Third National, who played again with restructuring in the Third Category, that is to say, as if they were never up, that is to say they had no reward, no progress. And above all, it was a restructuring completely state-owned, as it would rely exclusively on the money of the Greek State, the State television, and most importantly it was unrealistic restructuring, as the sums promised, which it never gave, were too much or exceeded the real powers of ERT. Mr Vassiliou, Mr Boukoro, was well aware of the problems in football, prepared changes for months and finally, passed them by an amendment rather than by a bill and with great promises just before the elections, without consultation, without even hearing all the relevant bodies. Unbelievable handshake, which was applied directly, leaving many groups in the void literally! [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] And obviously, the pandemic, which appeared halfway through the first year of the new championships, has shown even more, Mr President, because you too are a soccer enthusiast - the savageness of regulation. On 20 August, by letter, the NGO asked us to consider the abolition of Football League and the operation of Super League 2 in two groups of thirty-four groups. He recognized, in other words, even afterward - before he had spoken, of course, did he? - the failure of the existing structure. For our part, we have shown an absolute willingness to resolve the issue together with the responsibility of all the relevant bodies. In particular, we have been asking the organizing authority for weeks to take a stand. The lack of initiative, however, both the inertia of both the NGO and the Super League 2 and Football League led Football League teams to hold a teleconferencing conference on their own and to decide symbolically to deposit their stamps. You'll remember. However, we have remained fully in place and have continued to move fully in the institutions. We were calling for the position of all the competent authorities before we started the consultation to reach a unanimous solution and, above all, for the time necessary to implement all the decisions we have decided and I shall then mention, not surprises and applications without any time for preparing all the decisions. A working group was set up by the SPO, Super League 2, Football League and officials of the State Secretary, who started meetings early in October, and with a lot of methodicity ended up in the contents of the next bill that comes in a few weeks in the House. In other words, we have done, Mr President, my dear fellow Member, the self-evident thing, we have put all the actors at the table on an equal footing so that everyone knows what is being decided, what we are deciding, what is being proposed, which is what we are proposing, and above all, we are all responsible for our decisions and actions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] For the contents of the bill, as well as for the ethics of law, let me analyse you in my dentistry, because it is also a product of collective work. And one more thing will be done in time, not at the last minute. I have said it many times, and now I repeat it: We raise the elevator teams, we won't do it, you won't see it from this government. Seriousness, responsibility and, above all, consistentness in what we say with what we do!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Minister. I wish it all would be observed! Mr. Bukkoro, you have the floor for three minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to thank you for bringing back the great parliamentary battle we have fought with some New Democracy Members for the famous Vasilei amendment. And I'm really glad that you don't let anything fall down, because to build something new, you need to know what the old one is and what problems he's facing. And as far as I can tell from what you said, that's what you're trying to do. I would, however, be delighted, Mr Minister, if you would allow me to give another parliamentary battle, this time in favour of the provisions contained in the bill which you have announced for a few weeks later. Of course, you know that I come from a county, from an area that is starring at all the categories of professional football. Volos has 1 team, "Volos", which has found its course, but has two historical teams, "Olympic Volos" and "Volos Victory", which are struggling for the contents of the bill that you have announced today. I do not have to add any new questions, Minister, and I am anxiously waiting for you to answer the questions I raised in my prototype. Because, you know, in Greece, the debate before the bill often wins publicity and before the vote with the assessments, with the journalistic information, with the publications and with the statements of factors, and in the end the parties concerned get very little contact with the body of the bill, with the "inflatable" of the bill, as it is voted on. I therefore think that today is a good opportunity to tell us five things for share capital, particularly for Super League 2 for which we are also discussing, how to promote Football League teams, whose championships started at the Super League, about guarantee letters, and above all, Minister, as to whether we have final decisions on funding through the "STECH" because sustainability is what we all care about. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, allow me another thirty seconds to raise a point about the reorganisation of the PPPs, which will take the lead in the new categories that will be created by your bill, Minister. Over the last few days, the historic team of Niki Volos, which has been rebuilt with a new administration in recent years - was, in other words, a clearing process that began in 2015 and was completed in Gemini in 2019 - has been confronted with soccer appeals, Mr President, since 2012, that is, nine years earlier. And the governors at "Volo Niki" are very afraid that they will find themselves in front of a wave of appeals from that time, that is, long before the resolution and repayment of debts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I know, Minister, that these are issues which touch the responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and I believe that no one in this Chamber would want to limit the working rights of footballers. However, at the same time I firmly believe that legislation is needed to ensure that these appeals are not resurrected. Today, when the Greek State owes the private and does not pay, in five years the debts will be cancelled. So, the PAI, who tries to afford to stand on her feet, can anyone come after her, at any time, after nine and ten years? Minister, there is very strong concern at Volos on this matter. I know that it is not your exclusive competence, but I would ask you to make the necessary contact with your relevant fellow ministers with a bill to rebuild the PPAs that will be leading the PPAs over the next few decades. Thank you and I await your reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u273	Thank you too, Mr Buquoir. But in this position, not only is the Volos Victory, but many other unions. Please, Minister, start with the last of interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u274	Therefore, legislation needs to be laid down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u275	You're absolutely right, it's just like that. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u276	I happened to the most important colleagues here this time, so, Mr President, I will need time as a response to two Members and not one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u277	If it's for football...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u278	So to three MPs, why is Mrs McCrey? Mr President, my dear colleague, as I have said in my prototype, as in all matters, we also work methodically on restructuring, but above all on a plan and with excellent cooperation with all the relevant bodies, and without surprises, without surprises and without the coconut methods used by my predecessor. And I'm explaining. The proposed amendments bring about an institutional and substantial change, which is essential to the new economic conditions of our country at the time of the crisis. Professional football, Mr. Bukouros, is compulsorily shrinking in order to make it sustainable and, on the other hand, more qualitative and competitive. For this reason, the Second National Category of Men Football League is abolished and is merged with the A2' National Category of Men Super League 2. The draft law defines two categories of professional football with effect from the 2021-2022 season. The two categories are the A1' National Category Men Super League 1 and the A2' National Category Men Super League 2. The criteria for restructuring are, first, equity, i.e. self-evident. The lower limit of the minimum share capital of the OAEs participating in the A2 Championship of Men's Super League 2 is streamlined. It must not be less than 250,000 euros to ensure the sustainability and soundness of the teams participating in the relevant championship. Secondly, with regard to the guarantee letter for the OAEs participating in the professional football championship in the A1 National Category, the amount of the guarantee letter is set at a minimum of 150,000 euros. For the UAEs participating in the A2 National Championship, i.e. Super League 2, the amount of the guarantee letter is set at a minimum of 100,000 euros. As for Greek footballers, it is laid down that for teams participating in the Super League Professional Championships 2, at least half of the players declared on each match all over the championship must meet the conditions for participation in a Greek national category of any age category. This ensures the staffing of national teams by active and fighting footballers. We are therefore increasing the reliability of the product, but we are also giving greater and stronger sustainability supplies. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] The viability of professional and amateur sport, my dear fellow Member, is our primary concern and we prove it with our work every day. I should also like to remind you of the new method of taxation on the profits of gambling that you have asked me earlier. Percentage of tax revenues will go to the General Secretariat of Sports for the funding of sports teams. It is a constant request and we, this government, do it. With the KHS published on 19-32021, the beneficiaries were appointed with percentages and, of course, with clear and well-known preconditions. Thus, according to the CYP, the A2 Professional Category will receive a percentage of the profits of players of 15% of the 50% shared by professional sport and amateur sport, up to 7.5 million euros. The amount shall be broken down equally among all those participating in the group. The payment shall be made twice a year, by 15 January the first and by 15 July the second. But, Mr. Colleague, we didn't stay there. This year, due to the exceptional circumstances of the pandemic, we have already given Super League 2 a few days ago as an advance payment of EUR 3,000 against future distributed payments corresponding to this category, as I described earlier. This amount really gave breath on a joint confession. Of course, we didn't just stay in football, but we went to other sports. In addition, amateur sport will follow. From the amount received by the teams, they will pay 50% and will use it to modernise, improve and maintain the sports facilities they use, as well as to promote nurseries. In other words, we are also disciplined in the spirit of the totalitarian FIFA-UEFA study, which highlights the importance of strengthening amateur sport and infrastructure, that is, there, my dear fellow Member, who is based on the entire sporting structure. If you would like to retain another amount, please, to see the emphasis placed by the government on infrastructure. I will tell you that about 15m euros are covered by the new "Antonis Tritsis" programme for the creation or upgrading of sports facilities across the country. After our own assent, the Ministry of Interior, on a relevant committee, proceeds to assess the demands and we already have good and official announcements of sports works in several municipalities of our country. Sport at the forefront, Mr. Comrade! It's a philosophy that we serve in faith for the benefit of the entire sporting family. I think that on the issue you have rightly raised in this House - and I thank you very much for that - you see the difference in the attitude of this government towards the former one. I am sure we will have the opportunity to say much more in the bill that will come here in plenary over the next few weeks. We are talking about a bill which involves not only restructuring but other important issues. With what we are going to discuss and vote - first, God - the state will have covered 100% - more than - of its obligations towards the holistic study. The international football organizations - FIFA, UEFA - and the new administration of our country's football federation are still doing the same. We conscientiously take the road that holistic study correctly indicates. Finally, for Niki Volos, since you mentioned it, it is not a matter of the Ministry of Sports. Some have the impression that for all of the Ministry of Sports there is a reason. We may have a reason, but it's not our business. So, yes, we will be dealing with it because it is not just your group, but it also concerns other groups as the President said, several other groups and not just football. Mostly football, but not just football. This is an issue that has to do with the Treasury. Nevertheless, because we understand the problem and with absolute balance and respect for the pursuits and claims of players, athletes, sports with their clubs, we will look to find a golden incision. We try every way to make a restart. Of course, the absolute anarchy, which has existed for years in the sporting structure, has caused many accumulated problems that we are called upon to manage seriously, I repeat, and without any desire to avoid solving them or discussing them. We know that someone has a cost. But we are not here, ladies and gentlemen, to describe and envision them. We're here to be judged by the result. Today, I have described you, my dear fellow Member, institutional interventions and, above all, economic data which result in figures. Such figures have never been charged with the charge you have been interested in and asked about today. It is a number which has nothing to do with the great promises made by our predecessors, but which have never been implemented. Today we are talking about a new way of strengthening the entire sporting sector, with an absolute level of professional and amateur sport, with revenues generated in the new way of taxation rather than money from the ERT, no money from the state budget, but from a new, proper way of taxation, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. And I have to say a great thank you to the whole political leadership of the Ministry of Finance, and above all to Mr. Vésiropoulos, Mr. Skylakakis, Mr. Christos Staikouras, who has worked and now managed to have this product, this result for the benefit of the great sports family of our country. That's our difference. We are talking less, but above all we produce results, which are visible throughout the sporting family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u279	Do you have anything to raise for 'Super League 2'?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, too. Mr. Boukoro, because you wondered about Niki Volos, to tell you that my father-in-law was two years of coach there successfully, Christos Terzanidis!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u281	Well done, 1990-2000!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u282	That's it! Ladies and gentlemen, the third question, under number 3929/5-2-2021, of the cycle of petitions - questions from Members of Parliament B1' North Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance of Maria - Eliza (Mariliza) Xenogiannakopoulou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'The Government of New Democracy does not solve the problem of workers in the cleanliness of public bodies'. For the same reason, the sixth question, number 607/26-3-2021, is not discussed in the sixth, second-round question, by the Member of the Messinia of the New Democracy Pericles Manda to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Conflict of interests surrounding the protected designation of origin (PDO) olives of Kalamata’. We move to the debate of the sixth, with number 602/3-2021, a top-circuit question MEP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'CISCO's transfer of personal data to CISCO, one and a half million students, students and teachers'. Mr Arseni, good evening, and good week. You have the floor for two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u283	Good evening, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Undersecretary, I am pleased to see you personally, but you know that this is a very clear matter for Mrs Kerameo, which is obvious to everyone that at the moment she is hiding out by not coming to answer the question about 'CISCO', which is one of the biggest scandals in her ministry. Mrs. Kerame came here so many times in this Chamber to lie to us, that we have a donation from "CISCO" to the Greek state. She came to tell us that she cannot make this contract public, even though the laws of your own government also required it and pointed out that it was in breach of duty not to publish these conventions. And when it was published, what did we find out? That the donation, according to Mrs. Kerameos, cost 2 million. The donation, for Mrs Kerameos, was costing the largest resource in the world right now, the citizens' data, data of one and a half million students and teachers, data on which, on the basis of the GDPR and what the whole world knows, you have no right to access without the consent of the citizens themselves. And Mrs. Kerameo gave them with a single twinkle. In fact, it should have been in person here to answer what she meant, when she said 'free', what was this donation that cost 2 million, to be answered by Mrs Kerameos, who is currently hiding, why she gave the citizens' personal data. I will read the contract now in our hands: 'CISCO' not only can use personalized telemetry data, etc. for its own business purposes, without compensation to the customer, but may also not be required to destroy or refund protected management data that constitute management data, telemetry data, fairy tale data or support data, which will continue to be allowed to use and if it reveals such management data, telemetry data, etc., it will also be possible after the expiry or termination of that Convention to use them forever, for whatever purpose it wants.’ This data tells us experts that they can get personalized. Mrs Alexandra Giannopoulou, Professor of Information Law at the University of Amsterdam, tells us that they can, by appropriate processing, directly form personal data and violate the fundamental right to privacy. That was the free data Mrs. Kerameos gave. The only free thing was the ones he put for free in the company. This contract was not free at all, and it is an absolute scandal. I'm sorry, Mrs. McCrey, for calling you guys to answer all this. He should've been here the minister he's hiding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs Mr Zoe (Zetta) Makris will answer. Mrs. Macrie, good evening! Good week! You have three minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u285	Also, Mr President, good week! Mr Arsenis, on the other hand, I am very sorry to hear you not acknowledge the opportunity that our Ministry has under the Rules of Procedure to be represented either by the Minister or by State Secretarys. It surprises me, because I often see you in this Chamber. In fact, this week, I will see you for the second time, as far as I know, Friday. I thought you knew him very well. In your style - and you will allow me, as your much larger, to advise you - not to use words which insult Parliament as well. Mrs. Keramea isn't lying. Mrs Kerameos has supported everything she has said in this Chamber and outside of Ethiopia, in her public speech, proves it by evidence. You said he was hiding. I will inform you - because, obviously, you don't know it, otherwise you will want to lie - that it hasn't been 15 days since the day it was here, in the House and answered a similar question for a while. So if you do not know, I would like, after I have informed you, to withdraw to your dentistry. He's not lying or hiding. And I'll tell you something else about your information now. I'll tell you what she would tell you if she was here. In the Ministry we have a single voice, the arguments are the same, the figures are the same and the documents are the same. It will be good - and listen to this as advice - to be a little more careful in both acidity and in the expressions you use. I would point out, therefore, that there is no record or storage of the electronically transmitted course. The sound or even the image is transmitted in real time. The Personal Data Protection Authority, in its opinion under number 4 of 2020, considered that modern distance learning is fully compatible with the State's basic mission to provide education and is not contrary to personal data protection legislation. It also considered that it was an appropriate measure to maintain the relationship between an education and a student and a necessary measure in the context of a health crisis. Our Ministry followed and prepared the impact study on personal data in line with the recommendations of that authority. Furthermore, it ensured that it did not only apply to the general framework for the protection of personal data of the company that applies to all users, but rather to an enhanced specific framework. At the same time, the donation agreement in Article 2 explicitly prohibits the commercial exploitation of personal data. In particular, it must not use any personal data that will be made available for the implementation of this Convention to evade its purpose - namely tele-telecommunications - and must not make use of the personal data to be made available, for example, e-mail addresses, for promotional or other commercial purposes. Let's come to the metadata now. What is it? I will give you some examples: Type and version of operating system, platform version, screen analysis, platform performance, problem management, other platform diagnostic information. No personal remarks. None of these metadata identify the natural person. I now come to your second question on donation. You question the free nature of the contract. However, if you had read it, Mr Arseni, you will know that from March 2020 until January 2021, televised in all schools in the country were fully implemented, as was the title itself, but also Article 1 of the Convention, expressly provides for the free concession of the Webex teleconferencing platform. When the donation ended at the beginning of the year, in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance, we decided to use existing inactive permits without any additional burden to the public for any use of teleconference, meetings, teleeducation through the project “HUBLIGHT II”. The sub-contracts of the CISCO Framework Agreement 1453 of the ‘ZYXIS II’ project, which ensure, inter alia, authorisations for conferences on the public sector, were signed on 4 and 5 July 2019 a few days before the elections in the SYRIZA government. The framework for ‘REFERENCE II’ provides for a teleconferencing licence amounting to EUR 2,256 000. Therefore, the Greek State will pay 14 euros for each of the hundreds of fifty-four thousand teachers a year to be able to do televised with their students, meet via teleconferencing, train. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Makary. Mr Arseni, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u287	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, once again, I am sorry that we need to discuss this question here. It should have been the Minister here. The Minister did not answer the questions we put in detail for the very simple reason that he made the contract public at that time. So now is the time to answer these questions, and now is where he's hiding and not in this Chamber. I'll repeat and go deeper. In principle, irregularities are innumerable. Firstly, this basis has never been made public. I mentioned that. You are violating Mr.3861/2010, as well as yours, Mr.4727/2020. But then we also have irregularities in the same contract document. The first "CISCO" contract - An hundred and seventy-two-page anchorages does not remind of a formal contract in which the Greek State has been involved and signed. There's no protocol number. Just a minister's office. There is no indication that the contract concerns the Hellenic Republic. There's no digital signature. It has not been transmitted to any other service. It looks like a private contract rather than a public document. Then - to understand why Mrs Kyrameo is missing from the debate - you are violating the GDPR. Not only has it not been requested and parents' permission has not been granted, but data is granted without their permission. You also referred to the fact that emails are not being given, etc. What these companies are interested in is not AMCAs, emails or even audiovisual material. That is not what they are interested in, and that is why it is not part of the contract. What they are interested in is the digital residence address, digital devices prints. These are the raw material. And that's what they give. Statistical processing produces data of enormous commercial importance. That is why, otherwise, this free contract for the Greek State - now there is a formal admission that it is done in return - has a secret price: Personal data of one and a half million citizens and especially children, students who are now starting their lives and who will have their data for the rest of their lives. It's incomprehensible what's happened. In any other country we would not discuss whether Mrs Keramea is hiding, but whether she has resigned. It would be self-evident to have resigned. It is a huge matter at the moment. It's about the Prime Minister directly. It's the first, clear, unambiguous government scandal. In fact, only resignation, and of course, the abolition of this unacceptable contract and an obligation to return the company's personal data can give a solution to this tragedy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u288	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u289	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would ask you, Mr President, not to insist that Mrs Keramea is hiding and not coming to Parliament. This shows an unforgivable ignorance of parliamentary dialogue. Don't insist. And don't insist on her hiding, Mrs. Keramea. I told you. You obviously didn't hear it. We do, it seems, parallel monologues. You insist on what you had prepared before entering the Chamber. He was here and answered the question of 'CISCO' in detail. And if you were genuine and sincere, you should have been informed. The Minutes are available to anyone. I am not going to comment on resignation and scandal. These are all political philosophies. You described as scandalous the concession to the CISCO company of personal data of one and a half million pupils, students and teachers. I don't understand what concession we're talking about. The personal data of the whole educational community are protected as we have ensured that not only the general personal data protection framework of the company that applies to all users, but also that the specific enhanced framework applies. Do not require any account to be created by the students associated with the link sent by their teacher. Connecting teachers through a special platform of the Ministry of Education, that is, through the Pan-Hellenic School Network and not via Webex. There should be special clauses prohibiting any use of any personal data for any purpose other than the operation of telecommunications. In addition, we have achieved the calibrated operation of the platform. For example: deactivated video recording and storage function. On all of this - and I told you in the protology - the opinion of the Personal Data Protection Authority was issued under number 4 of 2020, which considered televised as fully compatible with the State's basic mission to provide education that is not contrary to the legislation on the protection of personal data. You have also referred to the delay in publishing the contract. The donation contract, as its title mentions: There was no financial burden on the public sector, and therefore no suspension of the electronic system of KIMDI. However, the Ministry of Education had put the donation contract at the disposal of the representatives of the Representation. Do you know how many people came to see her? No one, nor you, Mr Arsenis, are interested in the contract that you are accusing today. In addition, it was submitted to the personal data protection authority, which studied it in detail before it made its administrative decision in September 2020. In January 2021, the donation ended. Television was included in the programme of existing SYZEXI II licences, without any additional burden on the public and the contracts concerned were immediately posted to the KIMDIA. The audit conference with Act No 921 considered that the essential conditions of the original contract were not changed and that there were objective reasons for supporting teleconferencing and teletexts in the educational community, dictated to meet the needs during the period of validity of the restrictive measures imposed by the COVID pandemic -19. As soon as the contracts were adopted by the Court of Auditors, the relevant instruments were posted by the Ministry of Education, but also the enhanced personal data protection framework, which the Ministry proclaimed and achieved by this company. Once the pandemic and the schools began, the Ministry acted quickly so that our children would not be removed from the educational process. We proceeded to tele-education where students and teachers hugged and pursued the course. We are struggling to find the children again in their natural environment, which is no more than their ranks and enthusiasm. We successfully struggled not to be cut off from the educational process during the pandemic. Almost alone throughout Europe. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, too. Have a good day to both of you. We're moving on to the last question. The fourth will be discussed under number 623/29-3-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mrs Emmanuel Thrafaniotis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “Start new sections of the Hellenic Mediterranean University”. Mr. Thracian, good evening, good week. You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr President. I believe you will show the same tolerance you have shown to the previous people who spoke about sport. One part of the question is about sport. Minister, you are taking part in a television consultation of Lassithi Law with actors and bodies concerned with the fate of higher education in Lassithi Law. I would like to point out that balanced and equitable development has always been a matter for the people of Lassithi, whether this was about infrastructure, such as the northern road, or about higher education. The delay of the county is reflected in demographic development at the level of Crete. In the period 1981-2001 we have a moderate increase at the level of Crete 19.71%, starting from Chania 19.49%, Rethymnon 30.82%, Heraklion with 20.06% and Lassithi with 8.94%, i.e. half the average growth of Crete. But how has the state always faced the demands of the Lassithi Prefecture? When, what was at the "soft mother" when it concerned the location of factories, when they abolished departments and TEI, they never left Lassithi, from Agios Nikolaos in particular, and went to Heraklion. The SYRIZA Government in the context of the dialogue of regional development conferences in 2017 in Heraklion raised the issue of higher education for Lasithi. With the agreement of the University, the Hellenic Mediterranean University, which was founded, covers all four prefectures of Crete, with the result that two new sections of Lasithi, the Physics Department of Ierapetra and Physical Education and Sport in Agios Nikolaos will be spaced. A research institute was also set up, the Institute of Economic Analysis and Tourism in Agios Nikolaos. Needless to say, the local community as a whole welcomed this decision, which combined with the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation in Naples, the Ministry of Health, which is under way, creates a set of schools that were mainly aimed at promoting the improvement of the quality of human life and his health. With the inauguration of governance by New Democracy, the first thing that took place was the decision to suspend the two newly established Sections of Physical Education and Sports and Physics. In fact, Mr Gerapetritis proclaimed that it was a success that these departments were abolished. The question, Mr Minister, is whether you really intend to operate the university departments in Lassithi and whether you intend to suspend for two years or at least this year the application of the minimum import base in order to properly prepare future candidates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr Thraniotis. The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Evangelos Syrigos, will answer you. Here, Mr. Syrigos, you have three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u293	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you very much for your question. I'd like to make an explanation first. In the timely question you refer to a question you tabled on 10-4-2020, which you say has not been answered. Because I looked into this a little bit, I found that it has been answered on 24-24-2020 and I am tabling the answer, which was given at that time. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos (Angelos) Syrigos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned answer, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now on the substance to which you have referred. The Department of Physical Education and Sport Sciences and the Department of Physics of the Hellenic Mediterranean University were established by Article 25 of Law 4610/2019. The same law in Article 25(2) provided that the beginning of these sections was determined by a reasoned decision of the Senate or the competent academic body, after taking account of the logistical and educational infrastructures and staff and there was a time-frame which enabled each department to do so. By Law 4653/2020 of this Government, Article 33 suspended the commencement of the training of thirty-seven departments, including the above two departments of the Hellenic Mediterranean University. This provision was found to be necessary because, according to and as set out in the explanatory memorandum to the abovementioned Law on those sections, the legal procedure provided for in the Act was not respected and, in particular, Law No 4485/2017. In other words, there is a specific procedure of opinion by the IPPC, which allows for evaluation of the new sections. The PPP has now been replaced by the new authority by the National Higher Education Authority, the NCAE and there are specific criteria, as well as feasibility and sustainability studies within a wider strategic planning that the university should have. In this case, it has already been pointed out by an official note from my predecessor to the President of the EAEC that the authority can proceed with the evaluation of the programmes of these thirty-seven departments. Nevertheless - and this is the crucial point - it has so far not come to the services of the Ministry of Education request of the Hellenic Mediterranean University in order to evaluate the Department of Physical Education and Sports Sciences and the Physics Department, which have until now been suspended. I'll come back to my denture with the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Thraniotus, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Hellenic Mediterranean University has a comprehensive study, which it has submitted to the Ministry and is returning according to the dean's statement, because new studies have been requested, changing the original proposal. That's the first. The second, Minister, is that at a meeting that we had done with your predecessor in January 2020, the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Mr Plakkatakis, the Vice-President and the mayors, said that the assessment will be carried out as soon as the President of the ETHAE is appointed, Mr Mitkas and the committee is set up. The committee has been set up, the president of the EAEC has been chosen, but the data has been changed and the proposals for evaluation have also been changed. From there on, Minister, these - I'm sorry, I'm going to say - are pretexts. When the Hellenic Mediterranean University had a ready proposal, when, as you know, it has been sent to you and a statement that the remaining classes of physical education are not at risk from the operation of the Department of Physical Education and Sport in Lassithi, when there are infrastructures that are modern facilities, when there is the proper requirement of the people of Lassithi for the operation of the Lassithi Prefecture, as well as the institutions of the area, of sports associations, I think they are excuses, which are not functioning. Apart from that, Mr Minister, I would also like to raise another matter which has to do with the minimum basis for importing. You're saying the goal is to upgrade the universities. Really, with the minimum import base, with the equation of professional rights for colleges and university departments, when a candidate gives a white glue can be written in college without the degree? Of course he can. Can it end? Of course it can end after he pays. From that point on, when I give a white glue and I write in college, and you finish a five-year-old school university, it makes sense that when a place is found, I will take it and not you who have really finished the university. I want to point out something else. The best college, Minister, is two hundred places from the last university rankings of universities. So, what upgrade of education are we talking about? I would like to finish, because I understand that time is pushing, with the proposal that you, Minister, should decide at first instance to operate the Department of Physical Education and Sport, in which there is no overlap, which covers a gap. I will show you the painting of how the Departments of Physical Education and Sport have been distributed throughout Greece today, with Crete under the Peloponnese to have a void. And it is the gap that the School of Physical Education and Sport is coming to cover. A gap that represents around seven hundred thousand inhabitants along with the surrounding islands and Crete. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Thraniotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] So there is no reason to deny the operation of the two sections, which are actually designed and spaced without overlapping with other sections. I'll give you an example. The Department of Administrative Science and Technology in Agios Nikolaos has two other sections similar to that in Heraklion. Also, I would like to point out that the Department of Administrative Science and Technology in Agios Nikolaos has been classified, based on the evaluation, between thirty-four regional similar departments in a second series, which means that it has quality in education and teaching. And it may have a small import base, but you do not take into account other factors, such as the distance from home and the accommodation for the hospitality of students, where all this was planned by the SYRIZA government to create a school roof. And as far as you know, there is available space in the area where the School of Administration and Technology is currently housed in Agios Nikolaos, the municipality's donation to the university, where hospitality infrastructure may also be developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, too. Mr. Syragos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u297	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I will begin with a general remark that I made to you during the conversation we had with the elected authorities of Lassithi Law and the rector authorities of the Hellenic Mediterranean University at the teleconference we had a few days ago. We have to realise that the birth rate has been in place for good in our lives and that we do not have the margin to say "It's okay, let's build another section, fill up with students", while the number of students has shrinked so much. I've said it another time than this Step. In 2000 we had sixty - five thousand candidates. This year we have about 100 thousand candidate students. Look out, in twenty-one years it's less than sixty-three thousand. Based on the data we currently have from those enrolled in the respective primary class, we estimate that in 2028-2029 we will have about eighty-four thousand students. That is, half the number of people who were thirty years ago. What does that mean? It means we may have excellent departments, but we don't have students who fill them. In addition to the Department of Administrative Science to which you referred, I then asked a question, and I now ask it, as to why it has such a small number of graduations. The answer is simple. Their knowledge level does not allow them to continue at university level. It's a reality. When you enter on an extremely low basis, this problem arises. That is why this basis has been introduced. Now, with regard to the strategic plans, I have before me a document from 30 March, that is six days ago, from the Hellenic Mediterranean University, which expressly states that the Senate has decided to draw up a strategic plan and is expected to be approved by the university's consortium in the next few days and that will take into account the planning of the NCA. And it concludes: "Our university is re-preparing the files of the six Sections..." - your two and the others - "to submit the complete dossiers to NCAE for evaluation in the next period". I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos (Angelos) Syrigos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, there is no proposal at the moment of the Hellenic Mediterranean University on the basis of the criteria of NISAE. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Last point, and that's what I'm closing down and asking for your tolerance for for forty seconds. I think NSAE is working extremely well, despite the short period of time it exists. This is due to many of the seriousness of the President and the Board of Directors of the NEAFC, who are monitoring things and doing very well. Proof that three proposals were submitted some time ago by the Departments of Engineering, Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering of the School of Engineering and by the Department of Agriculture of the School of Agricultural Science of the Hellenic Mediterranean University. The NISA submitted its positive opinion yesterday to qualify for a single and undivided postgraduate degree, which we will see in the next few days from the Ministry. I am referring to this as an example of the fact that the NGO is operating extremely well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, too. Have a good day to both of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-05-S1-commons.u299	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.21 the sitting for the next Wednesday, 7 April, 2021, at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed.
