ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] The meeting's on. Before entering the debate on the topical and urgent debate on Monday 18 January 2021, I would like to make a statement. The Ministers for Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign and Home Affairs, tabled on 15-1-2021 the draft law: "Definition of the Multilateral Convention for the implementation of measures relating to tax agreements to prevent the erosion of the tax base and profit-sharing". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs will inform the House of the following: "We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent debate on parliamentary scrutiny on Monday 18 January 2021 that the topical questions to be discussed are as follows: The question under number 273/11-1-2021 will be answered by the Minister of Migration and Asylum Mr. Panagiotis Mitsarakis. The 282/11-1-2021 and 287/11-1-2021 topical questions will be answered by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Questions Nos 279/11-1-2021, 285/11-1-2021 and 286/11-1-2021 are currently pending, the 1596/10-11-2020 question of the reporting cycle and the 1902/371/19-11-2020 question and application for documents will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr.Kissos Kontozamanis. The question under number 2430/7-12-20 will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Domna - Maria Michaelidou. The number 274/11-1-2021 and 284/11-1-2021 topical questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. The 283/11-1-2021 topical question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Tourism, Sophia Zacharakis. Please take the appropriate steps to inform both the President-in-Office of the proceedings and the honourable Members. Mr Stylianos Koutnatzis, Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Nor will the following topical questions be discussed: Under number 278/11-1-2021, a topical question by the MEP of the Change Movement Mr.Michalis Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The mystical strategy of the banks strangles Greek businesses". The question by number 277/11-1-2021 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Independent taxation of newspapers of medical staff hospitals, health centres, EKAB and all health establishments". The question by number 280/11-1-2021 of Mr Kegeroglou's MEP, Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘A risk of unfair taxation on grounds of non-recovery of the agreed limit of e-commerce’. The 288/11-1-2021 topical question by Piraeus SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Ragosi to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "New environmental injustice in Schisto Perama, Keratini - Drapetsonas. In the midst of the pandemic, with an anti-constitutional legislative initiative of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, an Attica Waste Transhipment Station was authorised, while the decision of the Regional Authority of Attica is progressing towards the creation of a Waste Processing Unit, although the Regional Waste Management Plan (PESDA) is pending, as well as the new Recycling Act, is still being revised." The 1432/340/4-11-2020 question and application for the filing of documents by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "It remains pending the identification of the source of dysosmia in the Volos Urban Group". Under number 289/11-1-2021, a topical question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Watering wind parks within the Natura 2000 network'. The 290/11-1-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Thessaloniki: International Exhibition of Thessaloniki (ITH) like Greek. From Metropolitan Park to Metropolitan Earth Winning." The 291/11-1-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Motocross Reports on Motor Sport in Dreams and Protected Areas'. All these topical questions I have read will not be discussed in consultation. If I read them well, twelve will be discussed and eight topical questions will not be discussed. We begin with the fourth with the number 285/11-1-2021 topical question by SYRIZA's Deputy Magnesia - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Restoration of Volos Hospital, the decision of the administration for the new Organisation". In this question, as with all the corresponding, will the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Kontozamanis, answer. Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, first of all many years, and I wish you a better year, because we are talking about the new year. As you know very well, the “Achilopoulos Hospital” is the second largest hospital in size in the 5th Health Region, serving a population of about two hundred thousand inhabitants, which is growing in the tourist months, especially in summer. The previous leadership of the Ministry of Health, wanting to put the Hospital of Volos on a dynamic recovery track, had approved by decision of the Ministry of Health on the 25th of the 10-2019 the increase of the hospital's body from four hundred in four hundred six hundred beds, so that the haemodynamic division, the magnetic tombographer and the creation of the absolute necessary for the oncological clinic area can be integrated. However, by a new decision of the Board of Directors of the ‘Achilopoulos Hospital’ for the new organisation, the previous design is decisively reversed and the medical services provided of the largest health structure in Magnesia are degraded. It is therefore foreseen, by means of a new amendment to beds of the pathological sector by seven beds, that the beds of the mental health sector are reduced by ten beds, while there is no increase in permanent medical staff, despite the fact that the number of posts remains the same, a hundred and fifty-five seats, with the introduction of only twelve posts for pathologists and no new position for the specialities of the so-called ‘first line’. In particular, the one anticipated chest surgery post provided for in the existing organism is abolished both endocrinology sites, while one of the three anticipated pneumonology and tuberculology sites in the existing organism is abolished, leaving only one position in the new organism. An important equally downgrading at Volos Hospital is the cancellation of the design for the creation of an oncological clinic, which has been a constant request for tens of tumor patients in Magnesia for many years. Minister, based on the study of the Medical School of the University of Thessaly, in Magnesia, up to 40% more than the national average oncological incidents are recorded. Until today, the only solution for the cancer patients of Magnesia is to go for their radiation treatments to other hospitals in Larissa, Thessaloniki, Athens, with a disproportionate physical burden, but also unnecessarily physical and mental suffering. With all this, the timely question is very simple. Do you intend, Minister, to ratify the decision of the administration of the Volos Hospital for the new organisation, which, as I described you, actually leads to the deterioration of the medical services provided in Magnesia, but also the depreciation of public health in the wider region?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Meikopoulou. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mikopoulos, I would have expected the changes to the body to be finalised, approved by the Ministry of Health and then criticised us, because at the moment we know very well that the change of organisation, as proposed by the Hospital of Volos, by the relevant services of the Ministry of Health and by the Central Council of Health Regions, has not been approved in order to move forward with the changes. The hospital has management, and in this context it makes suggestions. So this proposal was made for changes to the establishment plan of the hospital. These changes were sent to the hospital and evaluated by the relevant directorate and will be discussed, of course, when concrete changes occur. This is the role of the hospital, the Health Region, the Ministry, to cooperate with the hospital administrations, and this will be done in this case. We have a view, like the administration of the Health Region, which is the responsibility of the hospital, on how the hospitals in the area and Volos should be transformed. Therefore, do not consider anything given, and much more I would ask you not to precede and talk about decommissioning the hospital before we even conclude the framework of these changes. Our aim is to improve and upgrade the provision of these services to Magnesia, so that every citizen enjoys integrated health services. It's not upgrading a hospital just like that, getting sixty beds more. A comprehensive design is required in the services it offers. The proposal of the hospital includes really strong and weak points. The special unit of invasive cardiology and a haemodynamic laboratory, which is part of the cardiology section, the section of new imaging methods and the care unit, of course, are proposals in the right direction. After all, you said that there was a precedent for the organization's previous plan. On the other hand, I would like to focus on two further points which concern us. Firstly, the planned reduction in mental health beds, which must be justified and, secondly, the reference not made to the chemotherapy unit, which we would like to see, upgraded and modernised, so that it can actually serve the needs of the oncological patients of Magnesia. Therefore, we are currently in the process of evaluating the Agency by the services of the Ministry of Health and we will assess the changes and come up with a final proposal for changes. Then we will be happy to be here to exchange views and accept your criticism and tell you the position that we will have now formed, so that we substantially upgrade the Volos Hospital, which is an important pillar of health in the Magnesia region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I don't think I'm in a hurry. On the contrary, what I asked you on the substance is whether you agree scientifically with the proposed changes made by the administration of "Achilopoulos" which, however, you know very well that they were adopted and in many cases also dictated by the administration of the 5th Health Region. At least let's agree on one thing. I think it is absolutely right and right to point out this: one organisation for each hospital is its identity, its profile for the next ten to twenty years. Therefore, the hospital of Volos and its body ‘seeing’ in a 20-year plan should initially be equivalent to the population serving that hospital, the health requirements that exist in that area and the new epidemiological data resulting from the treatment of this unprecedented health status. First, I would like to point out to you, Minister, that while the administration of the "Akilopoulos Hospital" speaks of modifications to the new organisation, of course when we talk about the creation of new units, such as the comforting treatment unit proposed by the new organization, we are not talking about a simple modification of the organization, but about the introduction of a new organisation, so it is important not to play with words. I'm not saying you play. I'm saying what the hospital administration and the 5th Health District claim so far. I want to be expensive and honest. Let's talk it out the way it is. In December 2016, in the government of SYRIZA, the organisation was amended from all fourteen positions for the surgical clinic and ten positions for the pathological that were anticipated, changed and fourteen positions were made for pathological and ten positions for surgery. A year later, in 2017, the amendment I mentioned to reconstruct the hospital organization, which included the increase of tracousia in the four hundred sixty beds in order to integrate the new sections, such as the haematological, the magnetic tombographer, was sent from the then management of the Department of Health to the Ministry for approval. The approval was granted, but the implementation of this plan was not carried out. The elections were held, and the process was absolved. So it comes today on your own leadership, a proposal for changes from the hospital administration to the 5th Health Region, which is totally downgrading - that I mentioned - the first-line specialities. There are only 12 pathologist posts for the hospital - they say that this has been corrected and that seventeen are now foreseen - and no pulmonary position has been established. It shall not give notice of any new post but shall provide for the staff of the departments to be redistributed from the existing staff. So I ask you your scientific and political point of view right away. So where are the new recruitments, Mr Kontozamanis, vital qualifications for the quality upgrading of the services provided? Where is the provision for creating the necessary endocrine, pneumonologist, dermatologist, chest surgeon, positions that are necessary for the Magnesia health treaty? To return to the amendment made to the SYRIZA government, the hospital's scientific board had unanimously accepted the amendments, proposing a new modern organization, including the creation of an oncological clinic, the chronic demand of the people of Magnesia. But today, what is the qualitative difference? With the proposal made for the new organisation, the Scientific Council gave approval, but let me, Mr Minister, tell you - if you do not know - that this approval was a product of extortion, because the 5th Health Region has said that the Ministry of Health will approve an organization that does not include an increase in beds, does not include new skills. And on the grounds that if you do not approve quickly, the departments will be lost, they gave the approval to an organization that basically reduces the development potential of the hospital. So I ask you quite simply: will you approve these changes and what is your specific view on these proposals? You're going to tell me, shouldn't the comforting treatment facility be established, which is a donation and should not be lost? I will tell you that it needs to be created. But it cannot be confronted that we either have comforting medicine or become a clinic at Volos Hospital when we know what needs are every year, about three and a half thousand oncology patients. I therefore come back to the original question and please do not avoid it. Do you, as Minister of Health, approve these changes? Do you think with the proposed changes the hospital is entering a development or is its credibility degraded? Finally, Minister, because - and I've heard you too many times -...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Micopulus, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u8	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a few seconds. Excuse me. The epidemiological conditions are new - you too accept it, do you agree - what is the health ministry's message in these new epidemiological conditions? A body that manages its parts from the guilty, is approved by roaming inside the hospital? Are you going to take the political initiative right now? That is what you must do, approve the body to which the Scientific Council unanimously agreed in 2017 and 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mikopoulou, I repeat once again that it is not my intention to question that the previous political leadership also had good intentions and to say that it did not want to upgrade the Volos Hospital by modifying the organisation. The aim is for us to really be able to respond to the conditions of the time - as you have said, we have a pandemic now, and the needs are changing - and we have an organisation that will be able to operate in the next fifteen - twenty years. And this organisation should be modern and respond to epidemiological data and current and future data. There are issues that we are discussing. New and more services could be developed at Volos Hospital, such as overweight medicine. You know that well. You referred to the positions of doctors and critical specialists. On this occasion I can tell you that in the next few days we will be able to proclaim positions which were either barren in previous notices, or new calls for positions in critical specialities, such as pathology, such as pneumonology, such as anesthesiology, such as doctors in TEs because we really need these specialties. In any case, we evaluate the data and very soon we will be able to discuss the final changes in the organization of the Volos Hospital. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. We move to the seventh under No 286/11-1-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MP Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health on the subject: "The problems of the availability of vaccines in Europe and the need to lift the status of "patent" in conditions of pandemic." Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I think this debate is particularly topical. We have said from the outset that the prospect of vaccines is a highly optimistic perspective for the prevention of pandemic, obviously in the context of an overall health strategy that should include monitoring the spread of the virus in the community and targeted prevention of cases and strengthening the public health system, as well as the access of patients - those who are seriously ill - to modern and effective treatments. The vaccination campaign is a campaign which - and I think we all understand it - must succeed not only in our country, but also in Europe, and of course throughout the world, because, as the World Health Organisation has said, if we are not all vaccinated, it is not safe. However, there have already been problems here since the beginning of this attempt. There have been and there are still too many arrhythmias in carrying out vaccinations in the country. I'm not standing on it. Our concern really is to correct the problems and the malfunctions that exist. We think it is wrong - we say this from the outset - that the organisation of vaccinations and vaccination centres should be a hospital. There have also been problems with transparency and there are even priority issues. The National Committee for Vaccines has not yet been made public on what exactly is the hierarchy of the population groups, on which they will be vaccinated. There are, therefore, problems in the organisation of the procedure, but there are also problems in the availability of doses by manufacturers. This is a global phenomenon, there is all over the world and in Europe with particular intensity at the moment. There are now two million vaccinations all over the world in fifty one country, that is to say, less than a third of the world's countries have been vaccinated. From the WHO data it appears that 95% of vaccinations have been carried out in some twenty countries. There is, therefore, a serious shortfall in time for wider peoples, especially in the developing world, but unfortunately also in Europe, in this prospect of collective immunity. Some eighty thousand vaccinations have been carried out in our country, 0.77% of the population is vaccinated. We are not close to the average, as the Prime Minister told us the other day. The average in Europe is 1.19%. We are far from Europe's average and we are, of course, far from some countries, such as the United Kingdom, which is around 6.3%, such as the United States of America, which is at 4.36% and, of course, Israel, which has been vaccinated by 26% of the population. And the World Health Organisation and many other bodies have identified this problem of the reduced capacity of pharmaceutical companies, which have guaranteed patents and are in front of this vaccine race, to respond to increased demand. The PFIZER also came out the day before yesterday and recognized that there is a problem and that there will be a delay in the delivery schedules. I think that in the next period the world demand will increase as well in the United States of America. It is no coincidence that the new Biden Presidency places a great deal of emphasis on vaccination.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Xanthi, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u14	I'm done. So international conditions create an environment where there will be an objective difficulty for pharmaceutical companies that make vaccines to meet the needs of citizens and countries. The only solution for this, in our view, is to remove the patent protection regime, to allow for the rapid reproduction of these vaccines in reliable production units in Europe, but also in the rest of the world, such as in India, and to allow this process to be accelerated to build collective immunity, an immune wall in the general population and to be able to slowly decompress this great social and health crisis. I think it is a request which has now begun to be opened by academics, scientists, health professionals, trade unions, patient associations, political groups and personalities, even from organised countries such as India and South Africa. I think it is time for a small country, such as Greece, to take initiatives together with other countries in the European south or with other countries in Europe, to force the leadership of the European Union to move in this direction and to complete the very important step taken on the pre-market and equal distribution of vaccines in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, it is very important that the majority of the parties in this House agree that the vaccination campaign, which has begun, must succeed. Most of the political leaders also gave the example of being vaccinated by the first. It is important, because we all recognise that vaccination is perhaps the greatest interference in the defence and protection of public health. Besides, we all know - and you even better as a doctor and as a former Minister - that vaccines are one of the greatest achievements in medical technology in the twentieth century. Therefore, we all have to give the vaccination message together and emphasise in any case that vaccines, since they have the necessary marketing authorisations from the competent regulatory authorities, are safe, effective and quality in order to get the population vaccinated. It is very important that our country - you said so - participated in the European strategy for the supply of vaccines and that is how we have already signed pre-market contracts, like the other Member States, with six companies so that we can have access to a portfolio of vaccines when they are available. The European Union continues its discussions on the purchase of more vaccines. Vaccines are known to have a particular production process. It is well known that the first quantities in the European Union are too small and will increase over time. It is important that all the Member States of Europe had access to the vaccine at the same time. And it is important - because it has to do with the European Union itself - that the European Union has taken initiatives to help this public good of vaccines to have access and people, fellow citizens, citizens of poor countries or developing countries through the initiative of mainly GAVI - CEPI, the 'COVAX Facility', where the European Union is prepared to contribute, as well as to third countries in Europe, such as the Western Balkans by financing the purchase of vaccines in order to be donated to these countries. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll use time from my dentistry to answer the essence of the patent question. Let me just say that there is a project that provides for the development of a thousand eighteen vaccination centres. It is logical that these centres do not develop in primary health care, in health centres. It is logical that these centres are not developed from day one. They'll grow as long as more vaccines come into the country. We have added the hospitals to our operational planning. The workers in the health sector were vaccinated in them, but we have also put them in our design, so that we can ensure the smoothness of vaccination, as well as the opening up of health centres, and carry out it in safety conditions in a hospital environment, in separate areas. The civilian won't go next door to the intensive care unit to do the vaccine. It will take place in a hospital that is distinct, isolated, so that all safety protocols can be complied with. I'll answer my patent denture because I don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u17	No, you can answer now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u18	May I? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u19	You, because before I gave you more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u20	Vaccination progresses smoothly. As you referred to the United Kingdom, we all see what happens. There are words in this country in order to suspend administration of the second dose or to go backwards. That can't be done here. The second dose has been scheduled and we have the quantities to give the second dose to those who have been vaccinated. There is this issue of making fewer quantities available to some future traditions. It may be a visual from the PFIZER company as far as Europe is concerned, due to the upgrading of production facilities. I am sure that the planning is such that we can ensure that the population is properly vaccinated. Now, with regard to patents - after all, there was a debate a few days ago at the level of party leaders in this Chamber - I think your proposal on nationalization, on the acquisition of patents, that is, intellectual property rights, is inexorable. It will lead to fewer or no vaccines, because no industry will bear the cost of researching and developing new vaccines if it knows that patents will be nationalised. There is also another issue, the production process and, above all, the raw material. If there's no raw material, and the patent to have, then you won't be able to pass on vaccines. Last April there was this proposal in an article in the Prime Minister's German newspaper together with Professor Elias Mosilos on the acquisition of patents at European level, so that Europe can better organise production and ensure a sufficient amount of vaccines directly and promptly to European citizens. Since then, of course, a lot of time has passed. Vaccines are already produced by the pharmaceutical industries and in any case conditions have changed. It is, however, another thing to buy the patents of products, which would also be a support to the industries, in order to further continue the research and development of new products, and it is another thing to nationalize patents. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u22	Minister, just a word about organising the vaccination campaign. It is problematic that elderly people are now being invited to the public hospitals to be vaccinated. It's absolutely problematic in terms of public health. This line needs to be changed quickly, first-class care structures, as we agreed to in informing us by the Minister, and to be able in a decentralised way, without suffering, to proceed smoothly and to ensure that people who have serious movement problems are mapped up and organised at home for vaccination. It can't be done otherwise. Otherwise, we will have a sensitive population which cannot be covered as planned. Now I come to the patent thing. The European initiative is very important. Because of this we are debating today and we have available doses. The question is, however, that it has proved in practice that this initiative is not enough. Why? Because it was quite simply something that we knew and always said, that the market cannot meet people's needs in an equal and universal manner, particularly in the sensitive area of health and medicine, and even in a pandemic period. In other words, the need for rapid immunisation of Europe's population, as well as throughout the world, cannot depend on the business plan and the logistics of two - three pharmaceutical companies. It's so simple. The only solution, therefore, is to give additional production capacity to other companies that have certified experience, know-how, in the field of vaccines in particular. There are nineteen production units in Europe, there are other countries with experience, such as India. This possibility must be multiplied, so that we can quickly cover the world's population. You're saying this thing means nationalization. If it's not a distortion, it's awkward. So what we are saying is a central intervention in Europe to change and lift the patent regime for these vaccines in pandemic conditions. We're not going to mess with the world pharmaceutical industry's sanctuary and fidelity. We are not going to change the rules of the World Trade Organization and so on. I think, however, that they are completely substantiated health, social, political and moral, I would say, this request. Why, Mr Contozamanis, let me tell you that, first of all, the pharmaceutical companies that have managed to patent these patents have received public resources to complete their investigations have financed public research. A characteristic example is the case of "ASTRA ZENECA", where it was done in collaboration with the University of Oxford. They've got public resources, they've got a market, so guaranteed absorption of vaccines, and so their investment has the ability to amortize it very soon. Of course, there has been an accelerated process of evaluation and approval of these vaccines worldwide, which is an important asset for companies. So, in a sense, their money's gone. So I think we should make this move. This is neither a question of global capitalism nor a logic of the Soviet type. And it really is wrong, I think, that our intelligence is also called by the Prime Minister that this thing is a state-of-the-art company or anything else. It's not a firework. He used this term the Prime Minister yesterday. It is insulting because it is an idea that he had, in theory, supported it when there were no vaccines and it was probably unbearable and easy to adopt. Now that there are vaccines, now that there are difficulties, now that there is a need to speed up the process, it is now time for our country to take a serious initiative, such as the ones we had previously taken with the Valletta Alliance of the countries of the European south to press for. It may also be supported by other governments. I read that McCron is investigating the possibility of France's pharmaceutical companies. In particular, the Sanofi, which has left behind in the vaccine race, if the patent is lifted, will be able to respond quickly to and meet increased demand, because France is too back on vaccinations. So I think it is a matter of universality, equality and protection of public health, but let me say that it is also a question of democracy, with the initiative of a united Europe guaranteeing solidarity with the citizens of the world in this critical battle against pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u23	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, as far as the issue of vaccination is concerned, I will say this again to make it clear: there will be no vaccinations in hospitals alone. From the next few days, health centres will enter the battle against vaccination, and it will certainly be the ones that will have the greatest weight in vaccination in the next few years. We said that we have also put the hospitals in our design, so certainly, because it is the first time of vaccination, in an environment that is safe to normalise any problems that may arise and make sure that the next stage of the vaccination is smoothly launched with health centres. Now, as far as the patents are concerned, you said that last April the Prime Minister actually made this proposal. Perhaps, if this proposal had been adopted last April, it would have been different. I said this before that productions need to be organised, sufficient and access to raw materials. Since then, almost ten months have passed, vaccines have been approved, vaccine production has started and, in any case, we need to separate both the part of research and development that leads to the patent and the part of production. There is at the moment an issue in the production process of vaccines. It would have been possible, therefore, if this had been taken into account at the time, for the production process to have been better organised. Yes, I will agree with you that there has been funding and support for Europe in the companies that developed vaccines, which is why we have been able, and had vaccines at our disposal, to do so in such a short time. That is why the scientific community, which has united forces, has been able to obtain the results it has achieved in such a short time. It is also important to say that the European Commission is also involved in the cost of obtaining these vaccines from European countries. In other words, the price of the vaccine is subsidized by Europe. In any case, we are sure that our planning - we are here, of course, to discuss - is progressing normally, in accordance with the guidelines of the National Committee for Vaccines. There is no question of transparency here, because there will be relevant decisions by the National Committee for Vaccines. They will be ratified by relevant ministerial decisions. And we will be able, according to our programming, to cover, in due time, the vulnerable population groups and the elderly and to move on to the other groups of the population and, in the middle of the summer, to have built the immunity wall, which we need. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. As you can see, because of its particular interest in this matter, I have allowed the debate a little bit to be plunged into it. Besides, it was very informative. This does not mean that all the other questions will be the same, despite the fact that I do not underestimate that they are very serious questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u26	Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u27	Then there will be a debate on the tenth under number 279/11-1-2021 on the second question of the second question of the MP Argolida of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Award in practice of the health of the national health system". Mr. Poula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the health staff of the OSH throughout this time of pandemic is inextricably at the forefront of the race to deal with the coronary. This has been recognised many times by the government in the words of both the Prime Minister himself and you, the Minister of Health, have recognized it as well as other government officials. In practice, however, the government has so far not shown itself prepared to recognise it, as it has not taken any decision in the direction of practical support for the health staff of the country's public health structures. The Change Movement, fully aware of the need to strengthen and upgrade health workers, has repeatedly tabled amendments to the House, but which the government has never accepted. These amendments concern, among other things, the integration of the public health staff in the heavy and unhealthy health sector, the provision of a Christmas gift to health staff in the public health sector in the country without exceptions and the self-taxation of the medical staff of the ESY, health centres and the EAW. Minister, we would like you to respond specifically and clearly to us: When do you intend to implement the integration of public health personnel in the country into heavy and unhealthy? Why have you not even paid the Christmas gift to the health staff of the country's public health sector, as we have repeatedly proposed? Is it your intention to pay an extra salary to the staff mentioned above as a minimum indication of gratitude for the titanic efforts it has made to date? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u29	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, I would like to make it quite clear from the outset - we have said so, of course, at times - our absolute and unnegotiable will to support and strengthen all the health personnel in the country, which, as you rightly pointed out, is at the forefront of the battle against pandemic. We've done it since the beginning of the pandemic, from the beginning and throughout. We have arranged to launch actions for the benefit of the health staff of the country and to strengthen and further shield the National Health System. Last Easter, we financially supported all health personnel. We have hired permanent and subsidiary staff and we continue to do so. We have ensured adequacy in personal protective equipment and have legislated - and we have legislated - procedures for the immunisation of the National Health System. It is certain - and I do not deny it - that there is a number of issues that need to be regulated, with a view to further improving working conditions in our national health system. The inclusion of health workers in heavy and unhealthy work is one of them, and I agree that it is a fair demand for workers in hospitals and health centres, and we are considering this matter seriously and responsibly, in cooperation with all the relevant ministries, because, as you know, it does not fall exclusively within the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. You know that there is a committee that we expect to see, in order for this committee to see not only the health workers, but also other areas of responsibility of other ministries, if they can join heavy and unhealthy. You know that this committee has been set up by a decision of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and it works very soon and we will have the relevant report. And we've also been called as a Ministry of Health, and we've submitted our views. We recognise, Mr Poula, that the health and other staff who serves in hospitals and health centres of the National Health System has exaggerated themselves all this time and thanks to them it is due to the successful treatment of the pandemic, which cannot be put into scales and quantifiable. I think it is a state's debt in every way to reward these people, and that will be done whether this is an allowance or another way. However, resources and, above all, economics are not inexhaustible, and that is the main reason why it makes us particularly careful in announcements of benefits and benefits. You are not only aware of the need to strengthen health personnel. Of course, you have the privilege - let me say it - to speak safely, when you ask for a gift or an allowance, while we are the ones who are trying and want to find ways. I repeat that we are very careful and we want to be able to implement it in full. Announcements and promises that cannot be implemented will not be said by this government at any cost. Because above all we want to look at all our fellow citizens in the eyes, and in this case we want to preserve the honest and clear relationship with the health staff of the country. Therefore, the issues of aid and, in particular, the financial support for the health staff deployed by the National Health System are on the agenda of issues that the government has launched in clean and honest manners toward every worker in the National Health System. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Poula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, unfortunately, once again we find your reluctance as a government to reward this health staff of the country, all of which are all. Once again, you are not giving us guarantees that the people who work hard every day in adverse conditions will actually get a real recognition, and every time this staff will be called upon to close the holes created by your own policy. You had a problem with the vaccination. You couldn't build incubators outside hospitals, you went to the hospitals. This staff is currently involved in vaccination. These people will never get recognition. We had a problem with the staff missing from the first phase to the second. You said you were hiring. Ultimately, we don't see hires, and these people are trying to close holes again! They're trying to save the situation again. You must do so at some point, since you also have a decision by Mr Behraki's committee, which tells you that pandemic, the coronary is an occupational disease and that you must move on to integrating these people into the heavy and unhealthy ones. Finally, this has to be done tomorrow! And not to say so much that has been heard, 'we will give a gift, we will give a reward'. Why did you forget that? Then you gave half the payroll. Couldn't you give a whole salary now, even now? Isn't there any money? For other things, there are. Aren't they for them? Finally, make some right decision and finally help these people who are in the front line! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u33	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Poula, I also told Mr. Xanthos in the previous question, and I tell you that health centres will not be outside the battle for vaccination, the workers will also be normally involved in them. It's not just hospitals, there's no plan change. It is also the hospitals, but health centers will also be developed, so that people can come and be vaccinated. Now, in the case of heavy and unhealthy, do you want me to make a statement, when we do not yet have the Commission's conclusion, and there are no specific suggestions and decisions? No, we're not going to do that. I told you in my prototype that we are supporting the request, that is fair. We will wait for the committee's suggestion and the final decisions of the government. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Minister. I imagine, Minister - I am sorry, I am not interfering - that there is a programming, because at some point some will be vaccinated with the first dose and others will be vaccinated with the second dose. That means there will be almost a doubling.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Yeah, that's a start. Already today, the second dose has been started in our fellow citizens who received the first dose three weeks ago and the vaccination of those of the third age is progressing, eighty-five or over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u37	So we need more vaccination sites.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u38	Of course, not just more points, there are the vaccination lines, we have taken this into account in this planning, so that we can also serve the priority world to be vaccinated, but also the world that needs to make the second dose. Everything is designed and there's no need to worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u39	I ask you why, as you can see, the eyes of the whole population are on you and the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u40	Yes, there are other ministries involved in this project. And there is - let me say - and every day information about what is happening in the development of vaccination and we are trying to make mistakes and failures always to take them into account and to improve ourselves. And on the occasion - thirty seconds, Mr President - because Mr Blonde mentioned to our fellow citizens who are unable to come to the vaccination centres, I would like to say that there will certainly be a solution for them too. Vaccines are for the whole population. We will not leave any of our fellow citizens who wish to be vaccinated without vaccine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u41	Yes, sir. We are going to the first 1902/371/19-11-20 question and application for documents from the reporting cycle of SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance of Socrates Famelou to the Minister of Health, on "Serious responsibilities for the explosive increase in COVID -19 cases in Thessaloniki". Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I'll wish you a good year, a better year, and we'll have health! And let me confirm, Mr President, that as far as you are concerned, this is not a timely question, but a question of fifty-three Members, who we signed with the Health Officer, Mr Xanthos, the Civil Protection Department, Mr Spirtzis and many other SYRIZA Members, who have not responded. Mr Kontozamanis, for this reason, the first question I would like to ask you is why you did not answer our question from 19 November, which refers to a tragic event, Mr President, unfortunately - Mr Kontozamanis, let us know - for thousands of victims of Thessaloniki because of criminal errors by Mr Mitsotakis and - if you like - because he ignored the scientific community. In fact, Thessaloniki must say that it is the example of how this government ignores the scientific community in the battle of the pandemic. So you did not have the elementary sensitivity to inform us in writing for two months of matters relating to the health of citizens. I wonder why you're at the Department of Health. You have not informed us of the actions you have taken as a government and your responsibilities regarding the situation of Thessaloniki. You chose to hide, because you know very well that Mr. Mitsotakis personally had participated in criminal errors, wrong choices and omissions in managing the crisis. In the question we asked you, I repeat on 19 November, we asked you about two meetings, one was on 19 October and the other on 22 October, to learn that the Greek society had warned you both the scientists and the infectious and the scientific community of Thessaloniki and the self-government. Because the whole of Greece knows that Mr Mitsotakis has attempted to put the blame on others within the House. But it turns out, as your Minister, Mr Georgiadis, said, that you knew that you had the necessary suggestions. You did the same in other critical fields of the pandemic. Let's not hide, the second phase of pandemic is imprinting on how a government ignores science and leads to an accident explosion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I ask, Mr President - and I conclude - why is Mr Hardalias, who is the State Secretary responsible and chaired the meetings, to declare unreserved. Mr President, first of all I would like to say that Mr Chardalia's answer to this question which states that it is unreasonable. Second matter. Is the fact that since 19 October - and I will submit a post on the website 'ANDENNA' - was the Prime Minister officially informed of a case explosion in Thessaloniki and the outcome was that measures should not be taken? I will also present this in the Minutes - since 19 October from the website 'ANDENNA' - and I will give it to you all together. Thirdly, is the fact that it was repeated by a recommendation of self-government itself at a meeting held on 22 October, when Hardalias refused to hear the proposals of the Greek self-government to amend and cancel the events on 26 and 28 October? I shall submit to the Minutes and this meeting for which Mr Chardalias refused to be responsible and has his picture. I would also like to ask you this: Is it a fact - I will submit a post on the SKAI website - that you had information about an increase of 500% in the viral load in the effluents of Thessaloniki six days before the celebrations of St. Demetrius and of 28 October and that you have decided not to take measures and thus ignore the scientific community of Thessaloniki, headed by the Rector of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki? So the bells, Mr. Contozamani, had hit many times and evil came. But you insisted that you do not take measures, which you know from all sides. And finally, many weeks later, you will lead on October 30 to take measures and at the same time, as we write in the question with data from the president of hospital doctors, you have condemned Thessaloniki to spend weeks, without an intensive care unit available, and to be forced to incorporate sick people into surgery or in other places. That's what the doctors say. SYRIZA doesn't say. None of the strains I presented to you are a SYRIZA strain. So, Mr. Contozamanis, your scientists had warned, as had the self-government of all branches. And finally, Mr Mitsotakis - and I will submit, Mr President, Mr Mitsotakis' position in the Minutes - said that there was a problem both with self-government and with scientists, because they had not warned us. Did Mr. Mitsotakis lie or is all scientists and self-government lying? And in this, Mr Contozamanis, we would like you to answer us, because it is not enough simply 'we went out'. Thessaloniki still does not know what the imprint of the criminal errors Mr. Mitsotakis made personally against the citizens. Mr Kizoglu, Vice-President of the Central Association of Municipalities - ask if he is a member of a party - and he says that we have also made proposals to Mr Chardalia and the government. So it turns out you had information. And finally, Mr Georgiades, whoever confirms - and I shall state this, Mr President, in the Minutes - that we did not take steps, because we wanted to respect the events, and we finally understood that it was wrong and we did not do so in the Theophanea. It turns out, Mr Contozamanis, that you knew all this. So the question - and I close - is simple: Why did the Prime Minister himself already know about the outbreak of cases by mid-October, with elements of a meeting at which Mr Chiodras was present, have you not taken steps? With what data were the events of Saint Demetrius and of 28 October and how exactly did you have time to tell us one more excuse, so that there would not be such tragic developments in Thessaloniki, which were finally there? What actions have you taken for the public health system in Thessaloniki? And finally, tell us, too, what are the epidemiological evidence and what are the attitudes of the representatives of the government? Have you ever given this to Thessaloniki's self-government? Because the information tells us that after 15 December you began to give the municipalities data on the situation of cases in each municipality, to help the self-government who, with your tragic voices, asked you to put hands and backs to help. But you didn't even do that in Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u43	Finish, Mr. Femmel, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u44	You should also tell us if you know about the explosive increase of 500% in the viral load of the waste water in Thessaloniki, as the dean himself confirmed that your scientific community had delivered before the celebrations of October 26 and 28. I am tabling the above-mentioned documents. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I shall return, Mr Contozamani. Don't hide the truth. I'm going to prove to you that the whole Department of Health knew about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u45	Good. I do not doubt that this debate was too serious. Mr. Contozamani, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Famelle, the attitude you have chosen to keep to the government regarding the treatment of pandemic is now clear. It is a non-existent, constant reproach of criticism aimed at zeroing and cancelling the gigantic effort that has been made by the entire state apparatus and health staff in order to tackle this pandemic. It is unfair, above all, to all the human resources that manage the health structures that have fought this battle and then to the other public bodies and bodies involved in the management of the pandemic. Our responsibilities as government are well known, we have taken them, we have understood them and we have never denied them. And that is why we talked about our mistakes and which must not be repeated. No one, after all, is infallible. It's wrong. However, the criticism that has been made has exceeded every limit and logic, and I will tell you why. Tell us just once something more specific. What would you do then? You went out to say, "We have to recommend this. Do not go any further or "go ahead". The evidence says that’? Do you have an opinion? Have you ever taken a position on actions, restrictions and measures that have not been examined? You can tell us at that time and not afterward. We all know that the management of the pandemic is dynamic and decisions are taken on a daily basis. Nothing is left to his mercy. When you make a decision, you might also make a mistake. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] You asked us about Thessaloniki. Let me reply to you - we all know - that the situation in Thessaloniki from a point of view and then exceeded certain limits that had been set. The restrictive measures have had to be stricter, which is where and whenever you are judging them. Ignore the fact that when you make decisions, the prognostic models you have at your disposal and you use do appreciate and you don’t have certain predictions and answers. This is happening everywhere, in all countries, and there is a risk of failure. Even then, when the situation got out and we had this rapid and steep increase in cases we had not predicted, the National Health System stood up and responded to its role. The number of single - hospital beds and intensive treatments was multiplied within a few days and all our fellow citizens received the necessary health care. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Every day they increased system adequacy in available beds. It is characteristic that we have reached and exceeded the two-five beds of intensive care at public hospitals in Thessaloniki. This was an effort that, with self-renunciation, gave all the staff of the ESS hospitals in Thessaloniki and throughout the territory. Efforts were made also by the political leadership of the Ministry of Health, which took care of and ensures that they are strengthened, such as the recruitment of personnel who have been recruited, they continue to be made, and they will be made for more than seven thousand assistant doctors. A total of four hundred twenty-two permanent staff were published and completed in the next few days. There is also the notice of a thousand two hundred nine places of nursing and paramedical staff and many more. I would accept your criticism if you said they needed even more. Yes, that is true and we are doing everything possible to implement a greater number of recruitments and we will continue to cover the gaps, as we have taken care of and care for the means of personal protection by obtaining these materials and creating a national strategic reserve, such as by using donations we upgraded the infrastructure to our hospitals, increased the IF beds, supplier of modern medical equipment and upgrade the building infrastructure to the ERC hospitals. It's been a constant exercise all this time. We designed, with our minds the most unfavourable development of the disease and this happened in Thessaloniki and we succeeded and responded and stood up. I am sorry for your attitude, which I think is deadlocked and has no sense in it and no sense from us to watch. I think it is harmful to the citizens and the country, because, unfortunately - I repeat - you do not have to offer the debate that is taking place on how we could improve with concrete proposals in order to meet the increased needs of the period. We will continue, committed to our work in dealing with pandemic, the possible treatment of a third wave, the improvement and upgrading of the National Health System, open and receptive to any criticism, but in any case, criticism aimed at correcting errors and omissions, without political purposes. In any case, we are open and receptive to specific and substantial proposals. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u48	Minister, I know that you are in a very sensitive area, which is linked to human life. I would therefore suggest that you do not put yourself in a way that is really irritable to the people who suffered, who may have lost theirs and who are still struggling at the hospitals on the front line. It is a temptation for a Minister of the Greek Parliament, who manages confidential and life issues, to say in the opposition "what would you do?" when, first, you have not given us access to the minutes of the Committee of Epidemiologists nor even confidential. You administer them during beam. In fact, Mr President, I would like to say that Mr Mitsotakis is politically responsible for managing the minutes of the committee, as he is concerned about it, and that is why he is not announcing them and it is a proof of guilt that he is not announcing the Minutes. So while it does not give information, they tell us 'what you would do?' Mr. Contozamani, do you know what we'd do? When you resign from what you cannot respond to and give the Anti-Policy responsibility to exercise progressive governance, we will do what society needs, because you do not. So don't ask the opposition if you're not ready to resign, Mr. Kontozamani, for all these crimes you've made both in Thessaloniki and in all aspects of the second phase of the pandemic. Because this is really an honest position on your part that we are waiting for. You haven't responded. Let me tell you what else you're doing smart and you're swinging our fingers? Mr. Kontozamani, have you made a free prescribing of COVID-19 analyses so that we have a wide wave of tracing? No, you haven't. It's a proposal of self-government. Why are you doing the smart guy for us? Have you ordered private clinics, like we did the proposal from the start, from the first wave, to prepare yourself? No, Mr. Contozamani. In Thessaloniki, in fact, you have reached the point that you have checked two clinics with a double fee and that the owner of one will go out and say you have a free check, free of charge send a public hospital staff, free of charge you have provided a security check, because you have not even sent a sick one! And then you ask, "What does the Opposition say?" Why did we not plan recruitment to the National Health System and freeze them on your own choice a year before the pandemic begins, why did you just want to privatise health? Well, Mr. Contozamani, you didn't even implement our planned reforms, and you ask us what we would do. Resign, Mr. Kontozamani, to show you what we can do, because we have done so for the benefit of both our country and our citizens and health, while SYRIZA ruled. But now we're going to this. The New Democracy is coming with a minister who has declared unauthorized for a presiding meeting, the New Democracy that made the rushphetti vaccine and had party officials vaccinated, taking out of the health list, and asking us what we were going to do in Thessaloniki, us. So I say to you that we have data, which I shall submit, Mr President, scientifically, the EGE's figures, which show that the case curve has been 50 days in Thessaloniki since 15 October. I'll give it up officially. So before the meetings, Mr. President, there were EGE data that gave you information on the development of the pandemic in Thessaloniki. We are simply asking: why did Mr Mitsotakis lie that he did not have information when EGE gave him the information and why did he not take measures in Thessaloniki? Second matter. We have here and a provision - not to say that there was no welfare of the scientific community - from Mr Sarigiannis, on 1 August, who was talking about an outbreak of cases after the end of August and hundreds of cases November - December. The scientific community told you. I shall put it before you, Mr President. Is that all? No, of course not. I have the President of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, Mr. Epadactylus - he is not a SYRIZA official, Mr. Kontozamanis, if I am not mistaken - who confirms that the forecasts for hundreds of cases in Thessaloniki, which the Aristotle University had made, are absolutely reliable. So the scientific community, as a whole, is also in committee and is president of all the doctors of Greece - has provided you with evidence, Mr. Kontozamanis. And what have you done for all this? So I can tell you what you've done. Mr Hardalias comes, Mr President, and finally confirms, although unauthorized, that Mr Djitzkostas had indeed put this information - and I will table this too - he had proposed that the holidays be postponed. I'll submit it to the Minutes. And here comes Mr. Hendactyl - Mr President, and I close - on the Regional Council of Central Macedonia and on a show by Kontra Channel - I am sure that if you are looking for what was said in committee, you will not find any flaw on my part for Thessaloniki. Therefore, the President of the Medical Association confirms that this information was also submitted to the Committee, and as far as I know, despite the fact that the Prime Minister has not yet given us the minutes to the regional groups for a meeting in central Macedonia before a month, Mr. Epathylos said - and I am reluctant to have the full text from the Minutes - "Don't be responsible for not being able to take measures in Thessaloniki in time, seek the answer to Athens, because in committee discussion and proposals were made for immediate measures". So, Mr. Kontozamani, and the epidemiologists, and the Panhellenic Medical Association, and the dean of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, and the Environmental Engineering Laboratory, and all the self-government had requested measures in Thessaloniki. And who refused the measures, Mr President? The Prime Minister, who chaired the meeting on 19 October in Maximou, in the presence of all these and Mr Chiodra. So we have not only recurring, not just omissions, but we have a choice, Mr Contozamanis, we have a government's choice to ignore the proposal of science, to ignore self-government, to ignore the needs of human life and public health. We're telling you all this, Mr. Kontozamani, not just to give up - and I've proposed this from the beginning, since you dared to ask about secret evidence what the Anti-Policy would do - but because even today Thessaloniki does not have the analyses it needs, the doctors they need, the intensive treatment units they need, beyond that we learned that today there is an air-conditioning failure - they just informed me now - at the "Saint Paul" hospital, with serious problems in the hospital and the treatment of patients. Do you know that, Mr. Contozamani, all this? Can you answer all this, Mr. Contozamani? So don't worry about cases. We're just asking you. All this was well known, but Mr Mitsotakis told Mr Hatzinikolaou again that you had no information, that you did not have any proposals and that the curve - he says - starts from the start of November when we were over the 50th and 15th of October alert threshold. How, then, can we trust, Mr Contozamanis, a Prime Minister who in a critical human health and life is lying and ignoring the scientific community? And this whole Thessaloniki knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Famelle, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u50	So we ask: will the New Democracy Government find the courage to tell the truth? I will present three reports, Mr President, and two, which demonstrate that a public prosecutor's inquiry into the responsibilities in Thessaloniki has been launched. Because Thessaloniki, unfortunately, Mr. Kontozamanis, because of your choices, presented, according to iMEdD Lab, an increase in incidents and even victims compared to Athens 400%. Mr. Contozamanis, you're due to answer and I'm going to file the papers on the prosecution investigation. We want answers, Mr. Kontozamanis, to make public health better in Thessaloniki, because you failed. We have to make it right now. No danger left, Mr. Contozamani. And the danger is your fault, it's not just the coronary. Thank you very much, Mr President, and forgive me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Famele, the theme of St. Paul is from Saturday, from the 16th of the night and you can be informed of the actions that have been taken. Patients were transported and all necessary measures had to be taken to remedy the damage and the proper functioning of the hospital. Because you insist on standing in a phase of the pandemic where we had this abrupt increase in cases in Thessaloniki, I will repeat that, despite any delay that has arisen - there was no recommendation from the Committee on Infectiouss, the experts - the Government responded immediately and the Health System responded, it stood, it came to an end. In a few days new intensive treatment units were operated. Our fellow citizens who needed to be dissipated in other areas have been dissipated and the total structure of Thessaloniki and the wider region has fully met the needs that existed at that time. I would not like to remind you, but you once again force me to refer to what your former colleague, Mrs Constantopoulos, has said, if this crisis were to be managed by your government. And it would be nice to see the whole pandemic management from the beginning to the present and how it evolves from now on. See the details of the ECDC’s European Disease Prevention Agency, in relation to our country’s position at the moment. It is one of the few countries in Europe where the complex index means having green areas in our country, we and another one or two countries in Europe and see what has been done in the rest of Europe, to see that pandemic is managed in the best possible way. I would like to insist once again on this: I wish you were able to submit specific proposals to us in order to improve any failures we had and improve our operational planning, with regard to possible third waves in pandemic. In any case, we must ensure - because you have referred to both the committee and the publication of the minutes - that the members of the committee are independent and up-to-date. In any case, we take all the necessary measures. You referred again to the prescribing of diagnostic tests, when every fellow citizen who needs a diagnostic check is made free of charge, in the public structures of the National Health System, and now a random sample check is made, so that we can have the necessary epidemiological evidence to respond to any development of the pandemic. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] You referred to the order and to do it from the beginning. These are issues that have been discussed. They've been exhausted in this Chamber too. All of this was provided for in legislative acts. We've also ordered clinics, and we'll do it if necessary. We did not do so from the outset because things were going very well, and we did not have to waste financial resources to say that we step up the private sector for communication reasons. It has been done and everything that is humanly possible in order to have the best possible results. And today's epidemiological, epidemiological picture of the country demonstrates these positive results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u53	Madam President, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 134, I am turning the content of the question into a question because the Minister has not submitted any documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The second question under number 1596/10-11-2020 will be discussed now by Mr Andreas Poulas on the question of 'Preparation for vaccination against COVID -19'. The Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Kontozamanis, will, of course, respond. Come on, Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it has been a long time since I tabled this question and the data have somehow changed. In your best practice, you have left this question unanswered as many as I have from time to time. You are thus degrading the procedure and the value of the parliamentary work. But today you are calling on us to answer critical questions about the vaccination against COVID -19 in our country. The first point I would like to make is the quantities of vaccines coming to our country by the end of January. We are confused, Minister, with the numbers you communicate to us at intervals. I would like to know how many vaccines the Greek people will receive from both companies, from PFIZER and MODERNA. They are two companies that you very well know have been approved by the European Medicines Agency. A second issue is that of the vaccination centres. Due to the particularities of transport and maintenance of vaccines, vaccination centres were preferred to be set up in hospitals. The Prime Minister recently informed us that there have been two hundred and twenty - three vaccination lines in the hospitals in the country. At first you announced a thousand eighteen vaccination centres. What is this timetable for implementing? How are you going to send these vaccination centres? You're hiring? Will you get personal? Also, in terms of the target of the eight thousand vaccinations the day the Prime Minister said, based on the information we have from 28 December to yesterday, only two days, at 8 and 13, the vaccinations exceeded eight thousand. Why is that so? Aren't the vaccines enough? Is there a problem planning dates? We'd like you to explain. One final question is how many of the hundreds of two thousand five hundred sanitary people who serve in the ESS have they finally been vaccinated to date? It's an element we'd like to see. The main thing is the vaccination of private doctors. In fact, for groups of doctors such as dentists, otorinolarygologists, general doctors, pathologists, who are in direct contact with cases at this time, have you given any priority? Are you thinking of doing anything directly so they can be vaccinated by the end of the month? Do you intend to put priorities for vaccination in areas that have an increased virological load, such as western Macedonia? Can you tell us whether there can be a priority to be vaccinated population more quickly and more so that we can overcome the problem that exists?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Poula, we've made it clear before, there's the planning for the creation of a thousand eighteen vaccination sites in the country. It is obvious that the full development of these centres will take place when we have a large volume of vaccines at our disposal. Shall we open them today and waste the powers we have and sit the staff? You ask what kind of personnel we'll have in these vaccination centres. Yes, additional staff have been recruited. They will also be staff of health structures. And private doctors and pharmacists and dentists, all these classes of health care will be vaccinated. The rendezvous procedure has started on them in order to be vaccinated. I am telling you this because you have also referred to this category. Let me go back a little bit in time and actually make an overview of what has been done so far with regard to vaccines in Greece. On the second day of Christmas we received with the rest of Europe the first quantities of vaccines from the PFIZER company. At the same time as the other European countries, we received nine thousand and fifty doses of vaccine with which from the next day, on Sunday, 27 December, we provided five large hospitals in Attica. The hospitals "Evangelism", "Salvation", "Atticon", "Thriasio" and "Vulas Asclipio" conducted the first vaccinations. In these five hospitals, four hospitals of the Region were added, the University of Larissa, Patras, Gianna and the ACHEMAP hospital in Thessaloniki, which started vaccinations on Tuesday, December 29th. These vaccinations were carried out exactly as the Committee on Vaccines has decided, according to which the staff responsible for the National Health System would first be vaccinated. In your question about the number of people vaccinated so far, let me look forward to the answer because vaccination of the first health workers in the country is under way and is being completed on 20 January. All the facts, of course, are at your disposal. Nothing has been left to his luck. There is a plan and it is being implemented. In any case, it shall precede the preparation for the implementation of this project. We are in a phase where the vaccination of the population is a difficult and complicated process. We've got two vaccines at our disposal right now. We will have more vaccines in a short time with different storage, storage, handling and disposal conditions, which must reach the last citizen in the country, at the last point in the country. We all realise that this is really a difficult and complex process that requires preparation and preparedness and involvement not only of the Ministry of Health, but also of other ministries and public bodies such as Civil Protection, the Ministry of Digital Governance, the Ministry of Interior, the Armed Forces, etc. Today we have managed to carry out more than eighty thousand vaccinations, developing in the first phase two hundred twelve vaccination lines in a hundred twenty-five hospitals of the National Health System on the ground and fifty-four vaccination lines in sixteen large private clinics. Since Saturday, the citizens of Europe have been vaccinated over 85 years of age and the effort being made to vacate the entire population of the country has been great. As we have stressed, we have secured vaccines to cover the entire population. It is very important that the largest part of the population is vaccinated. And in any case, to repeat it, our fellow humans who need to do the vaccine will do so in any way. This attempt therefore combines speed so that we can quickly inoculate a large part of the population, and this has to do with the planned amounts of reception in our country despite any problems and much attention is needed so that no single dose of vaccine, continuous monitoring and control is lost so that the priorities set by the National Committee for Vaccines and, of course, any adverse effects on citizens from their vaccination can be recorded. Our discussions with the European Commission are daily in order to ensure the uninterrupted continuation of vaccine delivery and for vaccines which are pending to be approved by the competent European authorities to proceed as quickly as possible. In all these agreements Greece participates and Greece receives all the quantities that it receives from its population. Almost every week we receive new quantities. Each of our fellow Greeks must feel safe because we are doing a serious and responsible job. We have to be sure that we won't let any of our fellow citizens want to have a vaccine without doing so. I repeat, Mr Poula, that we are developing vaccination centres in health centres and hospitals all over the country. We have served, as I have told you, and this staff has already received the necessary training. In addition, all the vaccination centres have the necessary facilities for storage, management and handling of the vaccine, as well as spaces for the proper reception of the people to be vaccinated, without creating problems in the functioning of the health systems, but also, of course, places where every fellow citizen can wait a while after the vaccine has been given, as the relevant protocols provide. The transfer of vaccines throughout the country takes place under the supervision of the Armed Forces, experts from the Hellenic Army and experts in the procedures for the storage and handling of critical products, such as vaccines. We are sure that we are optimistic, not that there will be no problem, but that we are prepared to deal with and solve any unforeseen events or failure at any time, with the aim of always reaching the vaccination of the population quickly with the least possible doses of vaccine. So far everything seems to be rolling smoothly, even though we are at the beginning of this effort. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too, Minister. I must remind you that time is three minutes for my colleague and three minutes for you, Minister, with a slight tolerance. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I have listened very carefully. However, I would like to stress that vaccination is a great bet for public health and for the gradual return of our country to normality. The European Union itself has invested a great deal in vaccination of the general population, especially in reducing the consequences of pandemic on the European economy, which is still under repression. However, the situation is not simple and we should pay great attention to the supply of the vaccine when it is via the European Commission. The wrong manipulations of the European Union have probably created huge gaps in ensuring a sufficient amount of vaccines throughout Europe and it seems that Germany is bypassing European rules once again to serve its own interests to the detriment of the countries of the European Union. Is there any possibility for the Greek Government, in the Greek state, to obtain vaccines from another country, from a third country? Minister, I would like to go through a very specific issue, which I am concerned about now, especially for the sake of saving and the proper management of vaccine stocks. We are aware that in some countries of the European Union, particularly in Denmark and Germany, they gain an additional dose per vial. That is, from five doses to six. As you can see, this can increase by 20% the doses we have for the general population. Why do we not apply this model? Is there a problem in the vaccine recording system? Don't we have proper equipment to save in instalments? It sounds like we have a shortage of syringes and needles in our country and especially in needles with a small diameter. Is that the case? And if that's true, have you given priority to obtaining this equipment that we need to earn this dose? As far as health centres - and civil and civil - are concerned, it is understood that when the vaccine comes from Oxford, AstraZeneca, it will be possible for the vaccine to be vaccinated. We understand that. But now, if there are vaccines - unfortunately there are no - you cannot put health centres in the process because there is no necessary staff. That's why you can't make even a few. Why can't I tell you about my area - from Kranidio to bring people to Nafplio and Argos to be vaccinated. That's a huge distance, Minister. I'm staying in these. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for being consistent. Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Madam President. I will be brief because it is Mr Poulla's questions in particular. Mr Poula, firstly, with regard to the supply of vaccines outside the European agreement, I would like to tell you that every Member State of the European Union, like Greece, cannot derogate from this agreement and negotiate alone with the companies. As regards the sixth dose, I should like to inform you that as, following a recommendation from the European Medicines Agency and approval by the European Commission, the authorisation of the vaccine product and the relevant package leaflet has been amended, it is now possible to use the sixth dose from the vials under specific conditions and conditions, such as the use of a specific syringe. We have been instructing the health structures of the country that are carrying out vaccination this morning to use the sixth dose from each vial instead of the original five doses that were envisaged. This is also associated with the availability of special syringes that we have at our disposal. Therefore, our country is starting to use the sixth dose as this also provides for the marketing authorisation of the product. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, too, Minister. In the fourth, with No. 2430/7-12-2020 question of the question cycle of the Member of Parliament's Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Support measures for the armoring of closed care units for the elderly - nursing homes in the middle of a coronary" will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Domna - Maria Michalidou. Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Secretary, you know that this timely question was already tabled as a question from 7 December. It has not been answered and so it is coming as a timely question. We refer to support measures for the immunisation of closed care facilities for elderly people and elderly people in the middle of a coronary. The current situation in the homes of the country, I believe you are aware of it, but I would point out that it is the following: the large number of cases and losses between the careers and the staff, the economic and operational difficulties of the institutions in meeting the new demanding and costly virus protocols, gaps in the institutional framework and incomplete conditions of authorisation, incapable of regions organising the necessary checks with virtually zero or vague staffing of the social research services of each region, the mismanagement of life administrations, where various have been heard. And, of course, on the other hand, it is also a tragic event that shocked the country, suicide on 21-10-2020, of a consciously-timed 40-year-old childcare unit in Saint Stefano Attica, who had even taken credit for the exemplary implementation of measures against the coronary. These are the most eloquent cases, Minister, which reflect structural and also contradictory conditions in the lives of these units in the midst of pandemic. In the midst of the pandemic, while the above structures are open and in some cases with available beds, they are, in fact, literally closed to a specific quarantine regime, because they cannot, by reason of the constraints, accommodate new incidents only following extraordinary decisions by the relevant ministries, which carry incidents from the ESS. So while they are in operation and with very increased operational and economic requirements, there is literally asphyxiation. The government's counter-duty with the provision of free exams first per month and then weekly, is 'cadecamol' of the time for these institutions. Since the so-called care-clicking homes remain openly obligated and as long as the national social protection system ever needs, it is urgent, Minister, to take immediate brave decisions on the continuation of their operation and on the effective support of the carers. We need a comprehensive approach, for us, with a package, with one-off exceptional financial support to all structures, with suspension or exemption of obligations to ECAIs, public, etc. until the pandemic ends. There needs to be a favourable loan to modernise their facilities and equipment and, of course, a direct recruitment of personnel where these units belong to the public, the region and the municipalities. There's a matter. So you're asking yourself, Minister, the following: Firstly, which of the measures we propose and which policies do you intend to tackle this exceptional situation in the sensitive group of the elderly with accompanying economic and health problems and with what timetable do you intend to take them? Secondly, are you planning to implement additional measures to ensure public health, the uninterrupted operation and ultimately the shielding of these structures? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u64	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mulkiotis, let me start with an apology on my side. You can understand that it was just a parliamentary question. We're working on the parliamentary part of our ministry. I hope that it will soon be more effective and faster in its responses. As you know, the armoring of the elderly care facilities and social welfare centres across the country for the hospitality of the elderly is a very high priority of our Government. It is a priority of the government and, of course, it is an essential priority of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. That is why at the first moment - and I have answered other questions from colleagues at the National Representation - we have, on the one hand, arranged for the strictest protocols across Europe to shield these structures and protect the beneficiaries, the guests, and on the other hand, from creating such a system that we can actively go and help the functioning of these structures. What do we have? On the one hand, we have a state that created, implemented and ensures control of the protocols made by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in cooperation with the National Authority for Infections and, on the other hand, active support policies for the care units of the elderly and the public centres of patients in our country with staffing, but also with direct financial assistance. I would remind you briefly of what we have originally established in terms of the creation of protocols. And here I would like to say and stress once again that, in fact, the protocols we have taken and we observe - and I am telling you quite confidently, since I have contacted the co-legislative Deputys with me in the countries which had the greatest problems in which pandemic is in the care units of the elderly, namely Italy, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom - are indeed the strictest ones. What do any of those protocols say? Suspension of operation of the visit. Mandatory preventive laboratory in case one of the employees takes a few days off. Healthy hands measures and, of course, distances. Cleanliness measures, measures for the grouping of patients and staff, measures for the day-to-day operation and behaviour of workers outside their structure, daily thermometer of workers and, of course, a record of thermometering and compliance with all the measures we have taken. I would also remind you that, as a ministry, we have set up two committees to coordinate, monitor data and monitor the implementation of measures to protect these structures. At the same time, in cooperation with the EGE, we have moved from August to very coordinated molecular control actions, but also rapid test within these structures. You have said that in writing, but now also in 'paracetamol'. Mr Mulkiotis, it really is not 'paracetamol'. We hear it from the beneficiaries themselves, from the administrations in these structures. I think it is unfair to call it 'paracetamol'. The help we have given to two weeks or more and more dense tests within these structures has avoided much worse outcomes of the dispersion of the coronary and pandemic within them. I also note, and I conclude here, that with the National Transparency Authority, but also with tiles from the Secretariat-General for Trade and Consumer Protection, we have organised protocol keeping controls throughout the country. The tiles from both of these authorities have actually devised the whole territory so that they can check whether the protocols we have established are respected in great detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr President, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I have nothing to say, and I have to be fair, and what I say is concrete. I have mentioned in particular the problems that exist. It's known what happened in Thessaloniki a few months ago. It's the biggest center in the Balkans. There was a huge problem. Yesterday we had a number of other issues that were mentioned in the press. I refer to thirty a case at the Kalavryton Elderly on January 12th. I'll testify to the Minutes. In Chania, on 11 January, i.e. on the previous day, we had seventeen cases again. I would like to say that some checks are actually carried out, some procedures. But what else could be done, Minister, after seeing the Ministry, does the state see that there are issues to counteract and exclude these cases? I think it's not a small thing. I can't say the Ministry's not moving! - but here we have issues. They leave human lives, we have lost such a thing in closed structures. Is that-- to say? It will not be an exaggeration - a trick for our social policy, as a country. We cannot have so many casualties, and indeed so many of them behind the other side and have more general extensions throughout the territory. These are the issues that concern us and that is why we mention them. Furthermore, Minister, since these centres are necessary - we do not talk about it, they must be openly binding, they do not say that we do not need them, they are of great benefit and importance in any case - we must have an integrated approach. And we have said specific topics on which I would like, and I challenge you and I would ask you to see it and answer your dense as well, for extraordinary one-off financial support. You know, you also came to my home in Thebes, you came and made a visit to the nursing homes. You know the "Home Mother" in what state it is. You know economically the Orthodox Christian Union Thebes is in what state they are offering, and you know that they offer and have information, not small, but infinitely offering to society and to those people who are there. So, you see it one-off, Minister, and how do you judge it? And if you don't see her, why don't you see her, so we can hear an answer. See suspension or exemption of obligations to the State, such as HOPS, social benefits accounts, etc.Huh? Can we not until this pandemic ends, these structures can be rid of such things and of such obligations? These bodies are financially stirring up because we also have to oblige them to meet these obligations until the pandemic ends. Could there be a subsidy, a loan facility? You give so much, everywhere. In these structures, social protection, social welfare, why not take care of the state in order to give another dimension and to relieve and also contribute with this practice to the care of individuals, but also to the functioning of bodies? And I conclude by saying that the structures - and you know it - cannot function with the suffocating frames as they function. They want technical support, they want staff in order to give them the most they can. You know, with Piraeus Elderly, Piraeus Metropolitan, the other bodies, the municipality is squeezing, it's a matter. Why is this about the Piraeus Elderly? No one can say a word about the great offer of the Piraeus Elderly in the social sector and in this particular matter. Why would he be so unprotected? Until now there is still no help, but no assistance, no help, no help. You must tell us and answer - and I conclude - that the Ministry is now looking at the action taken tomorrow in order to strengthen these structures. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Mulkiotis, I know you are just and conscientious, and in no case do I take your question as an attempt to eliminate the work we have done this almost all of this time to protect our most vulnerable fellow citizens. What's the big deal? Absolute protection, unfortunately, for our vulnerable citizens in closed structures cannot be offered. Once workers in these structures do not stay within structures, absolute protection cannot exist. What can be there, though? There can be a squeeze of space so that the pandemic, the coronary, the COVID -19 does not pass within these structures. And we're taking care of that. We have taken care of it so that we can make this space as small as possible. And over there, I have two very specific answers as to what you have just said: One thing has to do with staffing. Since March last year, at the end of March, with an act of legislative content, in a month what have we achieved? In our public structures, within a month we legislated primarily, we legislated secondaryly. All the twelve social welfare centres across the country and our centre in Eurydice have been issuing a new staff notice and we have served our structures initially for six months and then converted it into another six months, that is, a year. We have served our structures with 1/3 more staff. What does that mean? That we have and have at this very difficult time five hundred young experts - doctors, nurses, caregivers, bankers, infants - who help with the closed protection structures of our most vulnerable fellow citizens and most of the older ones. Now, you know that these structures are financed by the state budget. Their funding each year is EUR 9 million. So for 2020 in the total of 8 million staff support, six respond to 2020. So from 9 million to 15 million we have an increase in their budget by 66%. In particular, you have raised what we can do for direct aid. We told you about the government's staffing, the increase for at least one year by at least 1/3 of staff. On the other hand, what direct financial assistance can we do? We've already done it. We voted two months ago. It was also voted in favour of KINAL in this Parliament. We have provided 2 million from European funds to help the elderly care units with as much equipment as we consider necessary to protect the beneficiaries, the administrations and the workers within them. So we are now working in the ministerial for the provision that we have already been through, which is for 2 million extra funding in these structures. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Madam Secretary-General is ringing.]] Apart from this, we are next to our most vulnerable fellow citizens and through funding. You mentioned the Piraeus Elderly. We have approved over 200,000 euros of extraordinary funding at Piraeus Elderly and other structures hosting our elderly fellow citizens. So we're here to put, keep and check the strictest protocols. But on the other hand, we are here to help with both staffing and direct financial assistance. Now, because many times we do things and we know that there may be more we can do and there may not be time, with very great interest in tabling and submitting a number of proposals to my office to examine them and see how we can integrate them into our policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, too, Mrs. Undersecretary. We will now discuss the third question by number 282/11-01-2021, first question by MEP I of the Communist Party of Greece.Giannis Delis, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Egnatia Street". The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Everyone has now realised, Minister, that your government is using it to speed up its anti-grass policy. So, your Ministry, the Ministry of Infrastructure, and the infamous TIADED are going to the competition for the concession to a private company on the Ennatia Road, as well as its three main axes, i.e. the privatisation of a public fixed asset of more than EUR 7 billion. Of course, before this final competition, the relevant terrain and preparation by all governments, which, firstly, delivered the Egnatia Road motorway to the TEAD, has taken precedence. Secondly, they multiplyed toll stations. Already eleven frontal and six side roads are in operation, as well as another four tolls on the vertical axles so far. It is expected that this will increase further. Thirdly, they increased the fee for tolls per kilometre and fourthly, they voted for some of these toll revenues to go for the repayment of public debt. Now, the last act of drama is being played, we would say, for the full privatization of the Egnatia Road, in order for it to function as well as the same criteria, that is, the chunky roads that operate and the rest of the major roads, the most famous and privileged, as we will see below, concessionaires. This is, of course, about the continuation and escalation of anti-grassroots policy, particularly here in the field of road infrastructure and transport. The state as a collective capitalist, we would say, after taking responsibility and cost, the great cost of building a complex and very difficult project, such as Egnatia Street, now delivers it ready, on the plate, as we say, to exploit in the business groups, to find a profitable way out of the funds that have overcompensated. On this basis, therefore, we ask you, Minister, as we asked in our written question, what the draft concession agreement provides for for the duration and the price of the concession on the Egnatia Road. Is there, like, a lower limit? We'd love to find out. What does it provide for in terms of amounts to be granted by the State for the recovery of old technical projects? What provides for the constructions which the concessionaire is obliged to complete? What does it provide for so-called heavy maintenance? What, in short, is that terrible business risk, which these business groups allegedly assume? What will be - and this is a very crucial question, Minister - the subject of the already workers at the 'GENATIC IGO S.A.'. What about the concession of the motorway? How do you plan to take advantage of this unique one, just as you have heard of knowing the know-how they possess? The third and final question is, if the government intends - we say if the government intends, you never know - to revise its decisions to increase tolls, so that you do not increase tolls to take them from 3 minutes to 5 minutes before the concession and to 7 minutes after the concession, as we read here and there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u72	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Before I begin to answer the question of my dear colleague, Madam President, I would like to say that today at the Ministry of Infrastructure we have had the official positive response from the European Commission and the Competition Directorate for the infamous work of the northern part of the E65. It is a project, which, you understand, has been deferred since 2011. It is a project that has been unlocked, a project that will get out of isolation of the town of Trikala and connect it to Egnatia, a project that plays a special role in the broader ambitious plan that the Prime Minister and the Government of New Democracy have for the wider defoliation of the region. It is a project that will proceed immediately within 2021, which demonstrates that the government, in short, is working methodically to unblock the major projects that have been done, my dear colleague, in the context of concessions, for which I know the JRC has a completely different view, but this view well or badly has been followed by all governments since 2008, even those who opposed it, and that gives me a chance to make the bridge with your question and come to another big issue, that of Ennaia road. Your question has three legs. The first part relates to the concession agreement, which, like you said in your question, is the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. We are, of course, in favour of concessions for this route. In the Ministry, we have done everything possible to enable the TEAD to carry out all the necessary competitive procedures. It is a concession that has been late and has been postponed, if I remember correctly, more than eight times, and it is something which is a commitment of our own government that this road too must be upgraded, so that it can provide services that other motorways provide, for a reasonable period of time to private individuals. Look out, we're not talking about privatization. We are talking about a concession for a certain period of time. It is a road of nine hundred kilometres, a road that the Greek public has not been able to sustain over these years. I will tell you that in several parts this road is problematic and that is why this decision has been taken and it is understood that this decision is a decision that our government continues. The second part is mentioned by my dear colleague to the workers of EGNATIA. On this point, I would like to tell you that we have done everything we can to upgrade the position of the workers. How? By entrusting new projects with existing projects that have been inactive for many years. In particular, I would like to refer to the so-called 'BOA' programme, which is the implementation of the Road Safety Improvement Programme. It is a programme that has been done by EGNATIA. EGNATIA S.A. has undertaken to auction a road safety programme with interventions in over seven thousand places across Greece and aims to improve road safety. As you can see, all these projects are active in EGNATIA S.A. itself, which will allow me to say that it had been fought by the previous government, which is why we had seen a large number of workers, very valuable civil engineers, leaving the company and going to other public services. So this vicious circle now stops. You will allow me to answer your question about tolls, because the time of my prototype has passed, to show you that for the first time this government has done something unthinkable about Greek data. And we put tolled in three minutes, as you quite rightly said, while KYA Spirtzi - Tsakalotou mentioned tolls at 5 minutes and slowly put, as we had to do, Mr. Colleague, the tolls on the Egnatia road to proceed with the concession process, but also to get the company to make all necessary maintenances to upgrade the most important, I would say, motorway that connects Igoumenitsa with our borders with Turkey. In my dentext, then, I will tell you what the government's policy on toll tolls is, how we are applying it and how we in fact do not hide behind our finger, as the previous government did, the so-called left government, which was with the people, on the one hand, but on the other, put tolls without conditions and conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u74	Me too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u75	Let me start, Minister, on assumptions. You agreed that all previous governments went ahead with this "tree" of privatisation and Egnatia Street. The second thing you said about the issue of non-preservation of the Egnatia Road - I happen to know it, because I often move on this road - is indeed there, but we do not consider it accidental at all, as we do not see at all, the radiological machines of public hospitals not operating in order to guide clienteles and people in private. I mean, it's the same thing. This is a conscious, in our view, attempt to reap the public sector so that it can be offered 'in the dish' to the private sector. But I would say to think a little more about the winners and the losers, Minister, than this long-term concession, which is quasi-private for a few decades. You didn't tell us how long it would be, although we asked you. Who were they and who are the time - earned on the Egnatia Street and in many ways? First, they are the construction groups, first by construction and then by taking up its annual maintenance. They're paid for this maintenance, and the road's on this mess. Secondly, of course, banks earn, on the one hand, the increased interest rates they impose and, on the other hand, the most revenues of tolls, which essentially retain - the banks themselves, i.e. - in order to repay the loan obligations of the EGTC SA. Now who are the losers from all this story? I think everyone knows it and they live it. They are, of course, the popular layers on which all major technical works are loaded, the emblems, as you say, that pay them once, twice and three times and every time they are used. It is also the specialized scientific and worker staff of the "GENNATHIA DIOS S.A.", for which the future is not so prosperous - you know - from the depreciation and degradation of such a company that has such potential to deal from now on with some small road safety projects throughout Greece, while it can of course be dealt with with with major technical infrastructures, which the country so needs. Of course, this is, in our view, an attempt to pluck the pill of privatization with what you said today - for the famous post-linguistic transition and the utilization of that of workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We must not forget, Minister, that I will ask for a slight tolerance, Madam President, and for the great risks posed by these concessions and privatisations, as the tragic accident on the bridge, on the motorway from Genoa, Italy, a couple of years ago, if I am not wrong. There it appeared clearly how ruthless all these ambitious concessionaires who, on the altar of their profits, do not hesitate to sacrifice infrastructure security. A great winner now of this ongoing concession case will certainly be the ambitious concessionaire who has been taking advantage of it for years. Your government is even preparing it for new "private" - I saw it the day before yesterday that I traveled to Egnatia - building even new toll stations that will obviously bring new extra revenue to any future concessionaire. Meanwhile, you said for the 3 minutes, but the estimates of the workers of the same "Egnatia" say that for the proper maintenance of the Egnatia Road, but also for every road, every major road, it would take not 3 minutes per kilometre, but exactly half. With one and a half minutes the kilometre being the tolls, the correct maintenance could be ensured, not the 3, 5, 7 minutes that will go. There is no, as you know, the slightest risk to the concessionaires, the current and the future ones. Their revenues are guaranteed - please - by the Greek State, and if they are less than anticipated, then there is the state corvana, who always has, you know, for them. Eighty-three million people asked for you some time ago, these roadmap concessionaires. Forty million people signed and gave them five ministerial decisions 'for escapers' - it says -'revenues due to lockdowns up to June 2020', i.e. they will also have to receive for the six months that we are running'. Now, if you compare the way this government treats the micromass and the revenues of these micromigrants, then we all understand how that state works. In any case, we think that there is a need not only to ensure that this concession is not made and, of course, to abolish tolls, but tolls also emerge. The only alternative, in our view, is the proposal put forward by the Communist Party of Greece for the socialisation of the concentrated means of production, the transport infrastructure, to integrate design, construction, maintenance, operation and upgrading, the continuous upgrading of these infrastructures, such as Egnatia Road, the CFP, etc. the scientific central planning of the economy, and so will staff and people's interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u77	You know, we have a great need - as it has been demonstrated for some time now, and as the great disasters we have had from natural phenomena, from rain, from floods, from fires - to build these necessary infrastructures, and here companies like the 'ENGINATIC LEVEL S.A.' would have had much to offer. Of course, you sacrifice all this for profits.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u79	Well, we've heard about six and a half minutes from a Communist Party's classic argument, which is very loyal to his views, and I respect that. But, Mr President, you will allow me to make a few remarks on what you have said. The winners of a proper concession are not the manufacturers, but they are the users, that is, the users who use the road. Why are users? Because they have services upgraded, they have a road well maintained, they have AD, they have a safe road. We respect the public character of the supervisory role that the public should have, because we are following a model that is loyal to other countries in the European Union, where we can in some cases give these services for a reasonable period of time to a private person. We don't have any such issues. Let me give you a comparison, if you like, with SYRIZA, who had taken the tolls at 5 minutes and had taken a KHS of Mr. Hardouvelis and Mr. Chrysochoidis and Mr. Spirtzis and Mr. Tsakalotou had doubled the stations - both frontal and lateral - and the price had increased. What did we do? We said 'no'. We said that because this is a staggered road, we cannot say 'with good morning' to the users that they have to pay five minutes and we have received approval from the relevant European Commission after a lot of negotiation and we said that we will first be given the 3 minutes service, because tolls are needed to keep the road. This is a reality with which you obviously do not agree, but across the Western world the user pays tolls to use a safe road. From there on, you have also said about the question of workers. I repeat that it is not the work of road safety, my dear colleague. Do you consider the EUR 450 million given to upgrade all road corridors? Do you consider the fact that within a year the Ministry has launched projects that EGNATIA is doing over EUR 1 billion? Do you think - and here too is the great, if you would like - practical support for the workers - 'fly' that a government comes and gives EGNATIA an important, central role in the process of liberating Western Macedonia? EGNATIA and its subsidiary will be the vehicle to do all the necessary work. So from this step you give me the opportunity to say again that we need these workers, we trust them. In fact, I will tell you that lately there have also been applications to return those who left EGNATIA, our highly worthwhile political engineers, who, with the attack they had received from the head of the Ministry of Infrastructure on SYRIZA, were trying to find - if you like - a roof on another public service. In conclusion, Madam President, I would also like to stress that we are not hiding behind our finger. My colleague, one of the first toll stations in the constituency I'm elected in the Strymoniko Serres. Because we now have to accept that we cannot hide behind any political cost. To get a serious highway, we need the user to pay. In other words, it needs revenues that this road can be maintained and that its operation can be upgraded. And won at the end is not the manufacturers, but we are all dating out and all the citizens who are now using these roads safely, and we are no longer mourning the victims that we have, unfortunately, become accustomed to in other infrastructure projects, which have not gone on private initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, too, Minister. And now we go to the ninth with number 287/11-1-2021, a topical question for the second question by the MP of Heraklion, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charalambos (Hari) Mamoulaki to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The need to upgrade the five unequal nodes of the North Road Axis of Crete (BOAK) in the area of Heraklion". Mr Constantine Karamanlis, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, will reply to the current question by my colleague. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, before I begin my position, so I do not hide from you that it was quite awkward as a citizen of Crete, the island and secondly as a Member of Parliament to hear about arteries, such as E-65, which had the positive development of the Competition Committee - obviously from DG COMP - and also to listen to the completion and smooth functioning of the Egnatia Road. You know very well - we have discussed this in this Chamber too - that historical unfinishedness at the national artery level remains the BOAK or the Minoan Street. I think we should finally look at the issues on the table and, indeed, the opportunity of giving this question, I think that some unsubstantiated aspects will also emerge on such a serious issue. Five gates of entry, five traffic unequal nodes of the city of Heraklion. As you well know, the North Road crosses the ever-growing city of Heraklion. There are serious issues. The reference is the Airport Cobb, which, at this point, is to say that it has been left with the Olympic works as a loose end. It is the Komvos of Katsampa, the Komvos of Knossos, the Komvos of Messara and, of course, the last part concerning the Phoenix node. I think that security is always the primary concern and, of course, proper traffic, which is not the case and there is a great deal of suffering, but there are also issues of vital importance to road safety. There are no basic and fundamental elements of European safety directives - we are talking about high-level hubs - taking into account the fact that Heraklion Airport, Heraklion International Airport, its second rank at the level of visitability in the country, is accompanied - and is linked - by an obsolete technical and study artery, that is, a node linked to the North Road Axis. Therefore, there are serious issues that mainly concern security and of course the service of citizens and visitors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall therefore close, Madam President, by putting the two specific questions in the first phase of my first speech: Minister, do you intend to redesign and upgrade the five existing unequal nodes of the BOAK in the wider town of Heraklion, taking into account the functional difficulties that have arisen, affecting other parts of the city? Secondly - and I close - what is the timetable for the implementation of the upgrading of these hubs and how is this linked to the broader timetable for the implementation of the major hub project of the North Road Axis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your timely question, because this Chamber is given the opportunity to reopen the issue of a very important infrastructure project, the BOAK, a project that reminds us of the modern bridge of Arta, because it is a project on which many political careers have been built, especially on the beautiful island of Crete, but many expectations have been disproved. So I will tell you very soon what we have done about this project and then I will come to your question about the nodes, which I would dare say there too, that your question has, without you perhaps knowing it, and a dose of self-criticism for the things that you do in your government and I will explain exactly what I mean. Let's say that we at the Ministry of Infrastructure have completed the entire range of premeditated projects they need, we've reached the final development, and in the next quarter we're going to submit all these studies to the Ministry of the Environment, to the Ministry of the Environment, to get the environmental license. As you know, in no country of the European Union, nor in Greece, no work can be auctioned today without finalisation - a very important thing that has not existed - and without such environmental permits. I now come to your question. On this subject, we are telling you that, in the context of the procedures, we have commissioned a contract of consultants since 9 November 2020 to consider, among other things, the issues of the five nodes, which has not been done for many years. And I explain: We will see the points, and in particular we will look at the bypasses of Chania, that is, from the Bamvakopoulou - Souda and Rethymno, from the Atipopoulos to Amari section, and of course the part that concerns you, the section of Heraklion. So in the preparation of this study, the conclusions of which will be reached in February, we will also look at the construction parts of the bypasses, that is, the points to which you referred, that is, the five unequal mesaras, Phoenix, Knossos, Katsampa and Airport. At this point, however, I would like to make a point, because I do not want to hide behind my finger. We are talking about nodes which have not been maintained for years and their road is in a very bad state. We are talking about five knots that develop on a 7 - kilometre highway length, 5 knots, 7 km. You realise that this creates huge road safety issues. And to be honest, on no modern highway we don't find such phenomena. That is why we have prepared this study and we are waiting very soon for its conclusions so that we can see exactly what the technical solution is and how many knots we should have here. As I told you, Mr President, this study, which deals with many other difficult technical issues, will also give us solutions to what we need to do in these nodes. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say to you that in any case it is clear that the work of the BOAK is progressing very rapidly, because, as I have said in the introduction of my speech, all the necessary geotechnical and other studies have been carried out and we are now ready for approval in respect of the part of the PPP and the part of the concession to be deposited immediately - I told you in the next quarter - all these studies to obtain approval of environmental licensing. In this context, therefore, we will examine and have a full picture in February of the problem of the five nodes, which I understand concerns the entire wider region of Heraklion and Heraklion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u84	Me too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u85	Minister, I'm surprised. First of all, we learn this: everything that is not maintained dies and sometimes kills. Here, what do we observe from what you say? First of all, I think you have a basic ignorance of infrastructure, because it is not possible to say that it is the path of development that is seven kilometres from the five knots planned for the fourth city in the country! Unless it's the road, and we're gonna have to compress the number of unequal nodes that govern and disperse the city. So, here is a paradox. But let me mention again the core of my question. So we have here and here of your so-called acceptance - you said you are accepting it - that there are serious issues of proper operation, safety and maintenance of these five unequal nodes. What will you do in the next period? That's the key question. I am also surprised, Madam President, that I heard the Minister say that in November 2020 - I would ask - he started investigating and analysing the case of the nodes of those of course related to the North Road Axis, that is, 16 months after taking up his duties for this very important task that the Prime Minister himself is being cut off, considering the central importance, of capital importance, to him. It took you sixteen months to start locating any weaknesses, failures, steepness of the particular point of the BOAK. They are truly worthy of questioning this structural uncertainty that governs the Ministry in matters that are supposed to be a central political choice. This is a comment I cannot make. Besides, here, on 15 May 2020 - with you President-in-Office at that time, if I remember correctly - asking the Minister for the BOAK, he admitted that there was recently pre-authorization, in fact, of the archaeological service for the section of the road for the engraving that existed before the well-known Ministerial decision of 2018, which the Minister also knows. I am anxious to see the next quarter of what has changed and lost two years in Crete for a very important project that certainly has been tempting the island not yesterday, but for four decades. Indeed, Minister, many have built political careers on the back of the citizens of Crete, on the back of the security of the citizens of Crete. And they weren't SYRIZA's, because forty years some people ran and ruled the island, others had them given or rather stunningly turned their back on them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In any case, let’s go to the main issue, no matter how much you move your head again. What are, in addition to your majestic statements, your moves? I was personally disappointed at the loss of the opportunity to fund the project from the European Recovery and Resilience Fund, the Recovery and Resilience Facility. Who's really lying about the lack of planning? Who is this who, under the present pandemic conditions, does not go ahead with such infrastructure projects that will really help and provide more jobs, but also with developmental Roots on the island and country? Who leaves time to run unexploited and does not go to the key work of BOAK? I shall conclude, Madam President, by endorsing that it is undeniable that we have a provocative indifference to the work of Crete, including the specific nodes of Heraklion. Although your attitude does not give us any surprise, we will not allow any further uncertainties and humiliations in this work. I'm saying it with all the meaning of the word. In conclusion, I would like to hear what the timetable is for you, so that we can finally get to a stage, if not to carry out the project, in a final procedure - given that there has been a competition in progress for three years - in order to get a final question in order to get to a contingent wish that is not ours but the establishment of a contractor in this key work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u86	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President. Once again, we heard a misery on the part of SYRIZA. What exactly did you do for four years? Can I tell you what you've done? A pencil on the map! Listen to your nerve. You've had a show of interest without studies. Other words to be loved! Where are the studies? Zero studies at the Ministry, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u88	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u89	I didn't interrupt you. Don't interrupt me. I listened very carefully. These are the rules of democracy, my dear. Okay? Well, for two years you've been mocking. You have reached the point where you say that 'we will not put tolls on the BOAK'. And where are you going to fund him, my dear? From the money trees of 2015? That's where you'd fund it, obviously. What did we do? We returned and said in the election - Mitsotakis himself, coming from Crete - that we would put tolls. It's over and out. You had reached the point where the Minister would say then that 'we would put tolls for tourists only'. Such things are heard in Europe and laugh at stones too. So that's the reality. I've explained what we've done. Obviously, there's a problem of understanding what I'm saying. I'll try to say it more simply so you know it too. Geographical studies do you know, my dear, what they mean? In other cases for a road so big it takes three years. What you didn't do, we did it in sixteen months. We are presenting, as I have said, all the studies to obtain environmental permits. So I should like to teach you a lesson '1-0-1', which the Anglo-Saxons say: To do work, to auction throughout the civilized world, I need to draw up, which you did not have - geotechnical studies - which you have not - and something else very important - you people who have been cutting off on environmental issues, environmental licensing, which you have not been able to testify for four years. That's all about recklessness, my dear fellow Member. And I'm closing. Lies have short feet. So, you, when you came in 2015 and said what you said and did what you did when you left power, you threw an incredible firework - one of what SYRIZA did with a very nice mast - and you did a contest of expressions of interest, without engraving, without environmental permission and the most basic, without money and lying to your neighbors, that you will not put tolls. So we told the truth to the Cretan people and presented a plan. This plan has timelines. We have not gone back because of pandemic, and very soon this road will be auctioned with guaranteed funding, environmentally licensed, without the tricks you have done in number. Because we had also seen these stunts of SYRIZA, and I am referring to another project, to the works of Northern Greece. You went and auctioned works three months before you left the government, without credit. That's what you did, it's who you are, and you've been taught by the Greek people. Now what are you doing? The opposition of misery and the issues of pandemic and health issues and major infrastructure projects. Today, then, once again the government has won a great victory. And I will close, Madam President, with what I said. E65 unlocked. The road that has been starting for many years and which SYRIZA has been trying to unlock for so many years, has been unlocked in sixteen months. Do you remember, my dear, the Patras tower project, when you wanted to make canals - contractors, when you dissolved a ready-made tender of the Samara government to give the works to your favorite left contractors? And this project has taken its final path. We have received the approvals from the European Commission and the two projects, road networks, which are really missing from the country, which is BOAK and the Patras tower, are entering a series of courses so that they can be completed in a very specific period of time, also assisted by the money that the RRF gives us, namely the Recovery Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too, Minister. We are now moving on to the first with number 283/11-1-2021 in the first cycle of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Pella - the Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jakris to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Extended aid to the owners of tourist accommodation and other businesses active in the winter-health destinations". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Tourism, to whom we wish good success in its new post. My colleague, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, tourism and all the business that has developed around it is one of the main sources of income of the Greek economy. In fact, I would say that in addition to and alternative to the classical Greek tourist product, which is as you can see from the sun and the sea, which are inextricably linked to the Greek landscape, winter tourism, especially in the mountainous areas, near ski resorts, near lakes, and also health tourism in health baths as an alternative to tourism, which really covers the tourist season from November to Easter. Along with them, therefore, a large number of winter health destinations - I will say this in this sense - small family businesses, which, because of their high professionalism, are an important attraction for both domestic tourism and imported tourism, mainly from the Balkan countries. Such important winter tourist destinations in Pella are the traditional village of Agios Athanasios, near the Kaimaktsalan ski resort, and the Posar baths in the Municipality of Almopia, where they actually visit them in time, even during the period of the economic crisis, more than two million tourists, Greek and Balkan Europeans, around whom two and a half thousand beds have been developed, from private initiative, in rooms and two and a half thousand beds, Minister, in three and four star hotels. At the same time, there is also a number of other businesses around them and in the wider region, such as catering shops, supermarkets, ovens, clothing, renting and selling skiing equipment, ski schools, which you understand that because of restrictive traffic measures by citizens and continuous lockdowns are now faced with the range of bankruptcy. Minister, these operators are facing not only the lack of liquidity due to the lack of income but also the cumulation of debts, because the liabilities continue to run. They continue to owe ENVIA, insurance contributions, banks, social utility organisations, to owe PPC, OTE etc., and as you can see here, because in a few days' time we will have the sad anniversary of the Greek lockdown, they have lost two consecutive tourist seasons and they do not know whether - it is questionable indeed - to keep their businesses alive and many of them, as you can imagine, will be closed. I think that you should yesterday - and you have been very tragically late - strengthen, substantially mitigate the consequences of this pandemic and take immediate measures to support these businesses and their sustainability. First of all, I will mention exceptional financial support to all these businesses, tourist accommodation and all the businesses operating around them, either on the basis of the tick or on the basis of the number of beds. Secondly, you have to freeze their insurance contributions while the pandemic lasts, and there is this curfew, because as you can see the debts are being accumulated and the move of debts towards the next period of time does not help these businesses, but it does accumulate debts. We also need to find a way of guaranteeing the debts, and on the IRS, which I have already said, for the other taxes, and for the public utilities, but also for banks, Minister, because private debt is growing too. And also, because the 'Tourism for All' programme has gone all too well - and you know it very well - because it has no flexibility and it is very bureaucratic, you will have to plan, once the restrictions are lifted, a subsidised tourism programme that will enable Greek citizens, when the reasons for the curfew have been removed, to move, and of course, to strengthen these businesses in the difficult circumstances in which they are present. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. Mr Sophia Zacharakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u93	Madam President, thank you very much and thank you very much for your wishes. This is the first time that I have been present in the House in the new capacity of the State Secretary and I am here and in the position of the Minister, who is in Madrid today, the World Tourism Organisation. The truth is that all the Member States - and not members - of the World Tourism Organisation currently have the common interest, dealing with the consequences of the pandemic, which we already have, are experiencing in all the seasons and summers what has happened, but also in the winter season. And I, Mrs. Jackri, come from an area where winter tourism is a source of revenue from Eurytonia. I understand very well that both the ski resort itself and the ancillary services at the moment and businesses are living in very great difficulty, dystocia. On the other hand - if you wish - a conscious decision which we have as a government - and I personally - on the way here in Bulgaria and with absolute respect for the parliamentary procedure is to respond with elements and aim every time in a fruitful dialogue, a confrontation of arguments and, of course, the recruitment of proposals which are welcome, because it is a dynamic process, which is constantly changing, which is why one cannot speak either with absoluteness or with absolute certainty. But that is why I can be sure of the efforts that have been made to support entrepreneurs in tourism in general, but also to entrepreneurs and workers in tourism in the regional section of Pella, to which I am going to refer. A common admission is that we pass, we pass, we go and we will continue to spend an extremely difficult year and season. Since we are in January, we are just at a time when winter tourism is being tested strongly. Of course, you are well aware that the questions of aid and the matters of insurance contributions belong to other ministries, but in common as a government, I will try to reflect matters on the basis of facts and of course also on the basis of intentions. I think it is clear - and if you want - that the Prime Minister's intention, at the moment, also gives the special competence and the specific forms of tourism - within this and winter tourism, but also, of course, the heater on the subject of the thermal sources you mentioned - and on our State Department, so that we can also give more emphasis to these forms of tourism which can also extend the tourist season - is something that we want to have all the periods, not just for a certain period, but for there to be an extension of the tourist period - and of course we have this local, regional development that you are talking about in your question. So let's go to the real thing, like I said. There was particular care for unprecedented support measures, the top of which is: The repayable advance. You already know that the four integrated circles have reached 5.5 billion euros only for 2020. In fact, 50% of the fourth cycle is non-refundable and we continue with unprecedented interest in the fifth cycle and of course there will be an sixth cycle. Granting of exceptional financial assistance to workers. 'Cooperation - WORK' programme. Transfer of tax liabilities. Transfer of debt liabilities. Transfer of payment of cheques. Abolition of the solidarity levy. Reduction of insurance contributions. Coverage of insurance contributions. Exemption from the obligation to pay a rent. Let me note here that hotels, holiday accommodations and short stay accommodations are included in the affected companies for which a 40% exemption is provided for in the total rent for November and December 2020. Furthermore, it is already known that for companies that remain closed with a state mandate they are exempted from the obligation to pay a rent for the months of January, February, since the leasers will be compensated by the State at 80% of the rent. This includes tourism enterprises, such as hotels, accommodation, tourist agencies and transport undertakings, which are, in any case, affected by the ban on movements from a county. In addition, for these enterprises, the deadline for payment of the December 2020 instalment of the regulated debts to the tax administration is extended. I won't be using any more time. I shall speak in my dentext of the social tourism programme, which Mrs Jackson has already mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Minister. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u95	Minister, you are new and I justify you, because you do not have a very good picture of what is happening in these regions, as well as you are away from reality, but I will try to put you within it. All these businesses that I mentioned, not only in tourist accommodation, but also in other businesses that are active in winter and health destinations, have shut down on their own, because it did not help them to be open, because it was not man on the ground because of the bans on the movement and movement of citizens, he said in any case remains open and did not work, because, as I said, no one stepped on his feet. However, with a state order, they have not been closed, as you have said. This has led to the officials who have been employed in these months not being able to enter the programme 'COMPANY-WORK', which I told you before, and to be faced with the hotel staff in winter destinations with the range of unemployment, poverty and hunger, as you can see, Minister. To put in order what these accommodations have taken so far and, in general, tourist businesses. The EUR 800 special purpose compensation, who took it and who did not take it, Minister? Because when we have joint-ownership in hotels you realize that 800 euros have been shared by three and four. I mean, nothing so far. The repayable advance 1 and 2 were targeted specifically. The payment 4 most of them were not entitled to it because you have, as a benchmark, the September and October turnover which, otherwise, is zero because these companies are starting to operate from November onwards, as you can understand. All they have the right to get is a returnable deposit of 5 under certain conditions, any of them that meets them. As you said before, you may consider that the repayable advance is not repaid. 5. You realise that these crumbs you have given them and all the measures you have referred to are simply transferring their insurance obligations or tax. You said it yourself. What do you think will happen, Minister, when measures are suddenly lifted, for example in April, or June? Will cosmicism occur and will these people be able to face up to the accumulated not only private but also public debt to the insurance funds, the taxes, the various utility organisations or even the banks? What do you think's gonna happen? Development explosion in the country and will these businesses be able to cope? As you can see, these measures are badly designed. The criteria you have set have left the vast majority of these businesses out. Even the "Exodus" programme prepared by the Region of Central Macedonia for small and micro-enterprises left it outside, Minister, because of the criteria it laid down, these small family tourist enterprises in Pella and generally in winter destinations. And he put in only the large tourist businesses in Pierre and Halkidiki, because it was also designed to address small and medium-sized enterprises instead, only the large businesses that employ a large number of workers. From there on, what we have been talking about, 'Tourism for All' - you know very well - and it runs with a budget of 100 million for strengthening the demand for domestic tourism and for 2020 and 2021, it is weak because it cannot be implemented under these conditions. In addition, any aid granted is late for the beneficiaries. Therefore, I think it is imperative that I repeat what I have asked for and with my prototype. You should, Minister, directly provide exceptional financial support to tourist accommodation and other types of businesses active in winter health destinations depending on either their size or the number of rooms. You must finally freeze the insurance contributions. And you need to see this as a whole in other businesses as long as the pandemic and the problem of citizens moving from prefecture to prefecture and generally the curfew and lockdown. And you need to find a way to regulate in a way that is effective and sustainable the debts of these people, these entrepreneurs, as well as tax and public utility organisations, PPC, OTE, as well as banks. I told you that when we suddenly reopen, they will have to deal with poverty and hunger, a carved Greek society, and not, as you can see, the world-growth that your government is considering and envisioning. From there on you will certainly have to draw up, plan, a social tourism programme. Let me tell you that the programs that were running so far through voucher and the OAED program...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u96	Your Honor, you need to close down, slowly, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u97	I shall conclude, Madam President. The OAS programme and the OPEKA programme have been fine programmes that have so far been swept through very efficiently. I think that on the basis of these programs and with voucher you should plan a program to enhance domestic tourism as you should have done in summer instead of opening our borders wide open to all those who visited our country without certificates and without corresponding tests, with the result...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u98	My colleague, you're in five minutes. Please, be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u99	Madam President, the previous speaker spoke six and a half minutes and you did not interrupt him once.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u100	But this process cannot continue because someone else speaks more. Please, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u101	I'll start thinking you have something with me. Let me finish. I'd have finished if you didn't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u102	Madam colleague, Mr. Jackrey, please. I gave you a five-minute protology and you get another five-and-a-half-minute second. Hey, how much are you going to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u103	As long as you have given, Madam President, and the previous questioner...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u104	Please. He spoke for two minutes in his protology and spoke for four minutes in his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u105	I have begun, Madam President, to believe that you have something personal with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u106	Please, Mrs. Jackrey, it's not personal at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u107	You do the same every time I am speaking here and you are in the seat of the House. I want you to apply the same measures and the same standards, and most of all at the same meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u108	So if you're done with your voices, if you're done with your nerves, please, very much, I'm telling you again that I gave you five and a half minutes in your prototype and so many more you've taken into your denology. You can't take any more. We're not making a speech. We're asking. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u109	He spoke six and a half minutes in his protology and six and a half minutes in his denology. You've started me and interrupted me from the third minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u110	Come on, Mrs. Jackrey, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u111	If you let me go, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u112	All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u113	Therefore, Minister - and I close with this - you must draw up another programme, because the 'Tourism For All' programme, as you can see, has been completely untapped, designed in such a way that it meets the needs of both winter tourist destinations and thermal destinations and, in any case, to achieve the greatest, if you like, participation by the citizens, but also to make the businessmen of those who are struggling, as I have said before, to keep their businesses alive.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u115	Mrs. Jackrey, I may be new in this position, but you, because of your experience, should listen. So, listening to these unprecedented measures in support of the Greek economy which have already been taken in very difficult circumstances - I have already referred to insurance contributions - I wonder: Do you remember the question of insurance contributions how SYRIZA had handled it? Who increased the insurance contributions? You did well to make suggestions, but to remember a little what the party was, which increased insurance contributions, really bringing the economy to despair, and let us have a word again if you want what it means to be sustainable in this country. You spoke about the 'Tourism For All' programme. This is a programme, which existed in '14, which came back in 19 and, by extension, has already been decided by a ministerial decision on '20 and '21, with vouchers attributed to citizens who meet the social criteria following a drawdown. Why am I saying that? Because those who are listening at the moment do not have to know what this programme is. This programme is therefore already being drawn up in this way. There was a great deal of participation, with an equally wide range of distribution at both winter and winter destinations throughout the territory, and of course they have through winter healing destinations and those you mention for both the ski resort and the Pozar Bathrooms. Thousands of nine hundred and fifty-five enterprises, of which two hundred ninety-one in central Macedonia, were requested to participate. As I said before, it was decided to extend the programme for the tourist agencies as well. Indeed, for the fifty-five thousand applications that met the income criteria and were not paid in the previous draw, electronic vouchers were issued for the "Tourism For All" Year 2020 programme, through tourist offices corresponding to 100 thousand thirty-seven beneficiaries. This programme through tourist agencies has been active since 17 November, but because of the pandemic measures it has not been temporarily exploited. However, it is the Ministry's priority, because you refer to what we intend to do, to make full use of it and immediately after the removal of the travel restriction measures. This programme was extended for 2021 with L.4764 and we have in fact legislated to ensure that the sums paid to the providers participating in the programme are ineligible and not offset by other public debts. All that I have said today, those who well watch, but those who really want the real support of a people who have really been tortured, and a government that has really exploited all means to strengthen and even strengthen now more the consequences of this pandemic, will continue to be taken. Aiming, therefore, and priority given to the Ministry is the continuous support of entrepreneurs and workers and to tourism, in particular, in specific forms of tourism. I repeat: And with mountain tourism you will see legislative initiatives and with thermal tourism so that the expansion of the tourist season, as well as the regional development achieved, through special forms, will always be in the front line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, too, Minister. We proceed to the first under number 284/11-1-2021 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Elisabeth Scoofa to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Extremeness in the clearance of works for the years 2017, 2018 and 2019." The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu. Come on, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Secretary-General, as you can see, this topical question raises a very serious social and economic problem, a problem which threatens social cohesion itself. In particular, I am referring to the question of the huge delay in the adoption of pension decisions and the award of pensions, which relate, in particular, to women rural women, but also to other categories of workers, who have the possibility of being insured on a voluntary basis. In particular, it is noted - I will say over time or at least in recent years - that the huge problem of the liquidation of the works has been solved, so that pension decisions cannot be made. I would like to say to you that in relation to the issue Mr Brutsi legislated on 28 February 2020 an extremely detailed article, article 38 of Law 4670/2020. However, even the forecasts contained in your own government article have not been put into effect for a year. The reason why we have at least been told by the competent, the very helpful, employees of the EPC, is that the necessary software has not yet come out so that the officials can pass on the insurance contributions relating to the ergonomie in order to make pension decisions. But, Minister, women from rural women, I repeat - and we all know the gravity and difficulty of agricultural work - cannot wait three - four years - now we go to the fifth - and live with zero income or, without any exaggeration, many of them being fed by their children, who receive the wages of EUR 500 and 600. But there is another connected issue. Why have you, even in transitional terms, not legislated so that there can be a temporary retirement for either the insured person or even the people who have paid contributions to two insurance funds, to the former OGA and to one, and who, on the basis of the basic insurance contributions given by the second insurer, have already established a pension right? In other words, there is no possibility of temporary retirement for those who are insured. The next question I ask you in the timeline is, if indeed, a software issue, if a tender has been awarded, what legal integrity of the contractual text, if there is transparency in the awarding of the software, what is the ability of the software contractor and when will the required system finally be put into operation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much for your question. The issue of land workers is indeed an important issue, which the Ministry of Labour and the insurance funds have been working on for years. The nature of the Greek economy and the fact that an important part of it is based on the primary production sector makes the issue even more important and more imperative the need to resolve it. To this end, the ECA services shall work systematically in order to find a solution to the clearance of the contract and to the reimbursement of the pension and insurance rights of those insured, by implementing the legislation adopted by the Ministry of Labour. Before, however, I answer the substance of your question, you will allow me to stand on two points - the second you did not raise it in your position, but you write it in your question - which I consider to be important. The first is that the Katorugalou law, adopted in 2016, was abolished from 1-1-2017, and the existing system of insurance contributions was defined as the new way of recovering property contributions. I would remind you that the Katorugalou law was passed in May 2016 and until June 2019 - that is, for more than three years - the SYRIZA government has not taken care of the implementation of the laws it has adopted. The second question you mentioned in your question, but you did not raise it now, is that in May 2020 thirty-seven Members and Members of the SYRIZA tabled a question to the Ministry of Labour and never answered and referred to a government's inaction on the matter. I would like to inform you and the other Members of the Delegation that, as of August 2020 at least, I took up my duties as Secretary of State for Labour, the Ministry of Labour has answered four hundred written questions and forty topical questions, several of which were related to the issue of the construction. I think this actually shows the importance we attach to the issue of parliamentary control. Now, on the point of the work you ask the Ministry of Labour, it is important, first of all, to highlight the real problems of the insurance system. And these problems are not only solved by the adoption of provisions, but also by their implementation, which is the most essential and difficult part. The implementation of the provisions and, in particular, their digitisation - which will drastically reduce the suffering of the insured - are some of the real challenges that we face every day. In application of the provisions passed by Parliament, the EPCA has already captured the specifications required for the development of software that will be able to clear the insurance contributions of workers with a fallacy. According to my information after contacting the FBI and, indeed, towards the end of last week, the administration of the FBI informed me that we are already at the final stage of the controls of the relevant software, which will be implemented in the next few weeks. I repeat that the liquidation of the company's contributions is a priority for the Ministry of Labour and for EKA and the challenges that we face, with the top of this pandemic and its effects on the labour market, are many and we are trying to respond to them with a plan, with respect for the insured and pensioners, as well as to all the problems that we have before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u120	Me too, Minister. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u121	Minister, unfortunately, we did not hear much more from the citizens concerned, and, I repeat, the women rural women who have paid contributions - where the SYRIZA Government, if you will, has improved the institution of the rural project with No.4387/2016 - some specific answer on the timetable. You told us that the FBI officials told you that the process was at the end. I would stress, however, that we are talking about people, women over sixty-seven years of age, who have no other income, have zero income and have to live with zero income for four, five years. It's a part of your responsibility. And if you want, once it has been legislated, we are disputed by law, if another provision was needed in relation to the calculation of the works. I am not a lawmaker, but I would like to tell you that in the explanatory statement to Law 4670/2020 the legislator who has put your government recognises that there is a way of calculating the landmarks. I'm telling you, I'm not a lawyer. But that's not the point. The point is that, all right, the New Democracy Government, Mr Brutsis, in February 2020, adopts a comprehensive article on how to calculate it. You want to tell us that for a year now the pandemic has killed the whole universe in the economy and production activity? Do you want to tell us that for a year now Mr. Mitsotakis' Final State has been unable to run the software? Do you want to tell us, finally, that the current government, which used as its pre-election flag, that pensions would be issued by pressing a button, has not put on the necessary software to put an article that this government has introduced for a year? I sincerely invoke your social sensitivity - for I will say, unfortunately, that we do not see it from all your fellow ministers - in order to solve this enormous problem of women rural women, women formerly employed in Greek countryside. Give them the pensions and don't add them to the three-fold ones already. Thank you very much. We expect a concrete answer, binding if possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u123	Madam President, I will be brief. Mrs Skoufa, I mentioned in my narrative that digitisation of public services is a key element in the policies implemented by the present government. Do not make me repeat that for three years you have done nothing, nothing at all. Now, in this matter, I have already answered that it is in the very last few things, people did the tests. I did not want to make a commitment next week, next month or something, but I tell you that it will take place in the next few weeks. On the second point to which you referred, the OGA gives temporary pension as usual as all the funds. One of the most important reform initiatives, to go a little further, undertaken by the Ministry of Labour is the "ERGANI II". With this tool we will be able to monitor developments in all kinds of employment whether it is an employee or an employee, and so on, while we will also be able to offer the necessary flexibility to employers and workers. The necessary advances have already been made to create the "ERGANI II" platform through a combination of legislative provisions and coordination of different services of the Ministry of Labour, with everything that involves in the difficulty of the project. In this context, the ECJ will soon be able to proceed with the liquidation of the works for which a relevant provision has been adopted in order to implement the legislative framework, always in comparison with the existing framework, and which has already been adopted with instructions. However, there is one last point I would like to address myself in particular, and I would like to repeat something that I had answered to a question from your colleague Mr Kegeroglu, a moment ago, in September more specifically. The concern of the Ministry of Labour is not to make employment a form of employment, which will be a form of employment which is competitive with full employment with stable working conditions, but we would like it to remain a hybrid form of employment that meets specific transitional needs. We believe that the interests of workers and their support for their incomes for which the Ministry of Labour has established several measures during the pandemic passes through this road. So, yes, we will have all of these things that I mentioned earlier about digitisation and registration of all these contributions by a bachelor, but we do not want to strengthen the mistress so that it replaces full and stable employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, too, Minister. Now we are going to the second, with No 274/11-1-2021, a topical question from the Member of Parliament for Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Integration into the heavy and unhealthy first-line workers in the treatment of the coronary pandemic and the inclusion of COVID disease -19 into the national list of occupational diseases". The question will also be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Tsakloglu. Mr President, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, our topical question concerns the inclusion in the heavy and unhealthy work of the frontline workers in the treatment of the coronary pandemic and the inclusion of COVID disease -19 in the national list of occupational diseases. We are well aware that the different treatment of insurance and benefits between insured persons with similar characteristics and the pensioners of the ECA who come from different funds before 2016 is a pathetic one that runs counter to the principle of constitutional equality. The Change Movement from the beginning of the coronary pandemic has repeatedly tabled a proposal for an amendment to the non-discriminatory inclusion in the list of heavy and unhealthy professions, as provided for in Law 3863/2010, and the granting of a gift of Christmas 2020 to the staff of the National Health System, the National Social Care System and, in general, the people of the first line: the Armed Forces and Security Bodies, the workers in municipalities and public transport. And this as a practice - and not in words and applause - recognition of their work and social provision to deal with the health crisis. Furthermore, because this pension treatment - and you know it very well - in the event of death or disability from COVID -19 as a result of work retains serious differences and inequalities in terms of the conditions and level of disability pensions, the Change Movement has tabled a concrete proposal, Minister, with which, on the one hand, the insecurity of the law caused by the fragmentation of the existing legislative framework is removed, on the other hand, a uniform method of calculating the pension due to death and disability is laid down, as well as an increased minimum rate of pensioning for the above persons and their families. To date, I have to say that the government has not answered anything. We believe that the recognition of the people on the front line cannot remain in the words, but must be practicable. The inclusion of CIVID -19 in the national list of occupational diseases is absolutely essential, but it is also an international obligation. Are you asking me this question? Firstly, do you intend, as a government, to proceed to direct legislation in order to introduce all the above categories of workers into the National Health System, the National Social Care System and the other workers on the front line? Secondly, you intend to incorporate COVID -19 into the national list of occupational diseases, as provided for in dd. 41/2012, in line with the recommendation of the Commission of the European Communities 2003/670 and also with Directive 2000/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council? And what steps do you take to implement this situation? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Mulkiotis, I would like to thank you very much for your question, because you are giving me the opportunity to address a very important issue in general, the heavy and unhealthy professions and the specific question you raise in relation to health. Safety and health at work is obviously a fundamental human right, as defined in Article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. From the factories and mines of the 19th century to the digital platforms and the "smart" factories of the innovative technologies of today's era, the demand for safe working conditions is constantly returning and doing well. I would like to start by stressing that the extraordinary health crisis that the planet is experiencing and, of course, our country has raised not only the pathogens, but also the powerful systems of the National Health System. One of these is, of course, the quality of the work of the human resources of the ESS, which is making a great effort to tackle the pandemic. At the heart of our thinking, but also of public interest, are first-line workers in the hospitals in the country, women and men, who face difficult and often dangerous working conditions in the present crisis. Obviously, we are grateful to the health workers in the country, who are self-sufficiently engaged in a public and social function, even by paying, in some cases, a heavy price. The government does not remain unreasonable in the face of the facts. It supports the public health system in practice either by recruiting staff - according to the Ministry of Health more than 7 000 additional staff have been recruited, setting up 2750 posts for intensive care units and qualified and 1000 posts for nurses - or by adding new beds to the intensive care units, where from the 557 we had, when the pandemic started, we have already reached 1295 and are waiting to add 150 more. The pandemic reaffirms the project that decent work is safe work, i.e. one of the main commitments made in 2005 in the framework of the 70th UN General Assembly, which adopted Agenda 2030 for sustainable development, the member states of the Agency. For its part, the Ministry of Labour has as its responsibility the examination of workers' integration into the heavy and unhealthy professions along with the relevant Ministry of Health and Finance. In this context, with the aim of reducing exposure to occupational risk, the Greek state has institutionalised the inclusion of specific professions in the heavy and unhealthy professions through early retirement. Of course, it is not our main concern to include many professions in the BAE, but to reduce the occupational risk to which workers are exposed. Since the first phase of the pandemic, it has been established by a Ministerial Decision of the Barber and Unhealthy Occupational Crisis Commission with responsibility for the opinion and subjection of work, specialisations or workplaces in the heavy and unhealthy professions on the basis of requests made and the examination of which it was pending. The results of the committee's recommendations have been delivered to the Ministry of Labour, which examines them. As you know, there are also those of the medical and nursing staff of the ERC, to whom you have referred. The application of the foundation of the heavy and unhealthy professions so far meets the objective difficulty of recognising the professional risk given the serious lack of doctors in our country and the lack of collection of scientific data of gravity or the risk of an occupation to be integrated. In view of the established legislation of the Council of State, the provisions of the legislation on heavy and unhealthy professions belong to the so-called "exceptional law" because they provide for the exceptional preferential treatment and in that sense they are to be interpreted strictly by the competent bodies, except in any case for the broad interpretation by the administration, as well as the proportionate application to professions, premises and specialities. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] On the basis of all the above considerations, the Ministry of Labour is considering the Committee's recommendations, taking into account both working conditions and the side effects of integration on the heavy and unhealthy professions, for which - taking into account the pressure of time - I will be placed in my dentistry, because I have already exceeded the limit of my time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank God that there is the ESS and it has set back to tackle pandemic, and that is something that the entire Greek society now recognises. We have heard that at the heart of the government's interest is health workers, with the recruitment of doctors, beds, etc. They're familiar with this. All sides and all parties, all politicians have set back on supporting this situation in this direction. And it's about the whole society, it's not just about the government. The Change Movement has tabled ten times an amendment to include health and all the categories that I have told you before in the heavy and unhealthy professions. Minister, the government never answered. Not once! He completely ignored these categories of workers. This is a logic and a behaviour which we have repeatedly denounced, but the government is deaf up until now, a politically unacceptable behaviour, not to say parliamentary or legal, I do not want to describe it differently, but in any case it is unacceptable. I will also present to the Minutes this last amendment on integration into the heavy and unhealthy professions of workers on the frontline of the National Health System and others in relation to the treatment of COVID -19. With regard to the second part of our question, which concerns the integration into occupational diseases of cases of illness from COVID -19, I think you should know - I am sure you are aware of it - that it is today a request from trade unions at a global and European level. Not only is there a dialogue, but it is already a request from the trade unions at European and international level to recognise any illness from COVID -19 as an occupational disease. Of course, although this disease is not clearly mentioned in the list of the International Labour Organisation, it falls within Article 1.9 of Recommendation 194, i.e. the diseases caused by biological agents at work, which are not mentioned in previous parts of the recommendation where a direct link is scientifically established or determined by appropriate methods to national circumstances and practices, between exposure to these biological agents resulting from work activities and from the illness from which the worker is affected. Already since the beginning of the pandemic countries - members of the European Union, such as Italy and Germany, but also countries outside, such as Canada or South Africa, have taken concrete measures and have taken the recognition of COVID -19 as an occupational disease, particularly for workers in the health sector, thereby providing a safety framework for these workers. To date, there are not official references to reporting and recording of cases of COVID -19 in the workplace, neither as accidents at work nor as occupational diseases, despite the fact that, as of May 2020, there has been a relevant forecast for EUROSTAT. In addition to the recent version of Presidential Decree 102, which I will table in the Minutes, Mr Minister, it is in the FEK 244A' 7-12-2020, incorporating Directive 2020/739 of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection of 3 June 2020 amending Annex III to Directive 2000/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the inclusion of the SARS - COV -2 in the list of biological agents for which it is known to affect humans, and amending a previous directive that exists, the CIVID disease -19 as an occupational disease has not been recognised in any case in our country. I will table in the minutes Directive 2020/739 of the Committee, as well as the amendment tabled by the Change Movement on 18 December 2020 for the award of workers and their families with disabilities or death pensions, which were made at work or because of it by COVID -19. Likewise, in this amendment the government, according to its own practice, has been silent, has it not answered: yes or no? We, Minister, today because we are talking about a major issue of importance and interest, which is not just about our country, it is not only about Europe, it is about the whole world, it is about the world, and we want an answer clearly, to answer what is happening. Will the sanitaries be integrated at the end into heavy and unhealthy? The committee's conclusion is foreseeable. How much longer do we have to wait? So, after so much and so much we have seen, what else is needed to do - beyond bureaucracy - the inclusion of these health workers and all those people who are at the forefront of heavy and unhealthy jobs? Secondly, clear and clear, there is a need, Mr Minister, for a political decision. It is neither a scientific and bureaucratic process nor a matter of nature, it is a purely political issue. Will they join us? So will there be recognition of all these diseases for the workers and their families that have come because of COVID -19? Will there be any care for an invalidity or death pension by the government? Does the government have the will, yes or no? We would like you to answer these questions, Mr Minister, but in particular, in order for the interested parties to know what is going on. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u130	Me too, Mr. Comrade. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u131	I will agree with you that it is a political issue, but the political issues for their resolution and their responses should be based on scientific data every time. As I mentioned at the end of my prototype, the issue of integration into the heavy and unhealthy professions is something that needs to be examined holisticly, as it has multiple consequences in several fields too. I shall refer to four of them. Firstly, even today there are still fundamental differences between the pension rights of the public and the private sectors. These differences are sometimes in favour of the public and in other cases in favour of the private sector. Obviously, we recognise - and we have said so many times since the Stepping of the House - that within a single body the rules must be uniform, of course always taking into account individual features. I see Mr. Kamine there, who was teaching some things like that. We must always take into account both the criterion of horizontal equality and the criterion of vertical equality in our policies. This unification, to which I refer, and I assure you that we are already working for it, is a persistent, painful and time-consuming process. It must be careful, detailed, comprehensive, without exceptions and obviously following the middle route. The second is that we must not deal with emergency situations with permanent measures. It's one of the things I teach my students at the university. The health demand for integration into the heavy and unhealthy professions is a constant demand in recent years and now comes to the surface on account of the pandemic experienced by the whole planet. The health professions are, by their very nature, difficult and they are exposed to more serious risks than other categories of workers. The report of health workers is of course not the same for all individual qualifications or for all sectors of work. It is worth stressing that the concept of heavy and unhealthy professions is being used to retire those people who physical stress by their profession makes them unable to remain in the labour market - attention - not only in this profession, but in any profession, until they reach the general limit. So, for each situation, we have to apply the appropriate measure for each problem. The third thing I want to mention is the impact of the issue on the financial impact. And this impact should always be taken into account and avoid bad practices that we have implemented in the past. Our Ministry and our fellow ministries of Finance and Health are also considering this dimension as part of the whole issue of the integration of health care into the heavy and unhealthy professions, especially given the enormous impact of the COVID pandemic -19 on our country's public finances. The fourth, which is a little more specific and which I would like to stress is that great attention is needed when considering such requests for another reason: we need to take into account the official needs in the organisation and management capacity of the National Health System, which should not only be disturbed in terms of the possibility of early retirement, but also to improve overall and radically if we want to prepare for the health challenges of the next 20 years. In particular, this applies to the specific circumstances of the emergency needs faced by the national health system because of the pandemic of COVID -19. That is to say, we are looking at the request properly, with all these parameters I mentioned earlier. We want to give the best possible solution to these criteria. With regard to the second part of the question, which you mentioned, the Ministry is indeed considering the possibility of recognising this coronary as a health risk factor, in order to consider the death of COVID -19 as a accidents at work. Of course we want to be careful here too. It is under specific conditions, that is to say, that this has happened during their work. In the summer, we had stuff in the papers. There were reports of groups of health, which, unfortunately, were not careful on their holidays and we had negative consequences later on. This isn't an accident at work. Accident at work is something that you get at the time of your work. In conclusion, I would like to assure you, Mr Mulkiotis, and the National Representation that the Government recognises the contribution of professionals who are at the forefront of the pandemic. Installing culture of prevention, individual responsibility and the cooperation of the social partners, as well as the constant vigilance of the competent state bodies, are factors which will contribute to achieving this objective in the interests of workers, businesses and society in general. The integration of each professional group into the heavy and unhealthy professions, but also of health, is a serious matter. The first concern of the government and Prime Minister is not just to honour these people, but to make the current adventure a backdrop, both to improve their working conditions and to upgrade the national health system as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the last question of today's sitting, in the second question under number 273/11-1-2021, the first-round question by the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister for Migration and Asylum, on the subject: 'Restoration of transparency in statistics on asylum and the outcome of asylum claims for Syrian citizens'. The question will be answered by the Minister for Immigration and Asylum, Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you have completed a year in your office and I wish you a good time. You will agree - I believe - with me that having reliable statistics on the issue of refugees and immigration is something that helps us better understand the issue and avoid the take news. The credibility of evidence helps first of all you to do your job. But publicity also helps us. It helps counterpopulation. It assists international organisations, the European Union, the media and, by extension, public opinion. Until you became Minister, the statistics were kept fairly satisfactory by the Asylum Service, in a simple and comprehensible way on a page and a half. One knew how many asylum applications have been filed per month, by nationality, by point of entry, how many are accepted, how many are rejected, to what extent - in the first or second - how many are registered in the archive, how many are unacceptable - and this is particularly about Syrian citizens, citizens from Syria - and, more generally, there was an accurate picture of what is happening. You have stopped posting the details of the Asylum Service, which also have a guarantee of objectivity. You provide information, but it is so complicated, Minister, that we cannot make any difference about what is happening. And as I said at the beginning of my speech, transparency helps us all to do better. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u134	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, first of all, thank you very much for your wishes, and I thank you very much for a very important point you have made, that unfortunately in migratory - because there are intense emotions - there are too many make news and they lure public opinion, often with wrong information. That is why I really welcome your question. It is particularly important that there are evidence which clearly give the image of what is happening to immigration. We have chosen from March 2020, in the first two months of the Ministry's reopening, to issue a single card as Ministry of Migration and Asylum. And indeed in March it started with a few pages. The December edition, which will be published until tomorrow, has twenty-five pages and contains all the asylum details, as your question asks, all the elements of the Appeals Authority, all the elements of the First Reception Service, all the elements of the "ELIOS" integration programme. We wanted - and this was an objective, and with the new presidential decree published in December, the new organization of the Ministry - to obtain a single identity. The Ministry is not separate services that operate autonomously. It's a single service. There is now a common statistical section, as provided for in the Law of the Executive State, to provide this information. So I will tell you that in 2020 we had a 80% reduction in flows: 87% on the islands, 62% on the Evros. We issued a hundred and six thousand asylum decisions, eighty-one thousand decisions in the first degree, twenty-five thousand in the second grade, an increase of 64% compared to 2019. 33% of the demands were positive in terms of the refugee status, 10% were positive in terms of subsidiary protection. Especially for Syrians you asked, 61% on applications are positive, 77% is recognition rate, if we do not consider the cases that entered the file. We received forty thousand new requests, which means that twenty-five thousand of them were arrivals in 2019, which had not been submitted on arrival in Greece and submitted in 2020. We've reduced outstanding cases by 43%. There's still enough left. Eighty thousand decisions are pending. The aim is at the end of 2021 that there should be no pending decisions. We have reduced by twenty-eight thousand people in hospitality: from ninety-three thousand across the country to sixty-five thousand. We closed fifty-seven hotel structures in 2020. We've already closed three more in 2021. So we've reduced the burden on local communities by sixty structures. We have created only three new structures in 2020. One big issue we discussed in this Chamber was the decongestion of the islands. Indeed, in the islands, thirty-eight thousand benefiting from structures or ETUCA on 1 January 2020 was reduced to 14 thousand on 31 December 2020. The burden on our islands was therefore reduced by 63%. There were also eleven thousand three hundred outs of four - either deportations, voluntary departures or relocations - from the country. And because you always ask me about the Albanians, three thousand four hundred were Albanians and eight thousand were the ones from other countries. Since June we have a balance and a few months more people who legally leave our country than those who come. Finally, there are twenty-three thousand recognised refugees registered in the ELIOS programme. We attach particular importance to the integration of those who really deserve international protection, and that is why she was also the State Secretary at the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, precisely with this responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u137	So, Minister, if I understand correctly, from now on we will have more precise information on asylum and, in particular, on nationality, which we still do not have. We have a number of elements, for example, on the general departures, which were categorised as departures, but so far we have not had any nationality. It is very important that the Greek public should know, but all the other interested parties - as I said, even the academic community - what is happening with asylum and immigration, what the nationalities they take, what the nationalities of which are rejected and which nationalities are returned or relocated to other European countries. I saw that days ago you had a meeting with the mayor of Athenians, who complained that the municipality has been overloaded, has recently taken over a burden - in relation to other cities - which has not been accounted for and done its duty. I have to say that this was a matter already at the first time I had taken over Mayor. Since that time, all the flows - mostly migrants who had been unpaid into Athens - were directed to Athens consciously by the governments. And then they came in from Evros in that first time, they didn't enter the islands. Athens is a funnel, where the problem is actually shifted and everyone thinks that this is how it gets lost. We would like to know from now on where these people are being granted asylum. Do we leave them and go wherever they want? Let's know. Are we directing them to specific cities and structures? And we need to know that. Now, indeed, that we now have a State Secretary responsible for accession, I believe that we will have detailed information so that we can have a full picture. I conclude by saying that the legal immigration and asylum that we give to people who deserve it can be a huge advantage for the country. We should not just see it as a problem. Next to you was Mr. Tsakloglou, who knows the size of the insurance problem, and we all know that it is a rough bomb that still exists on the foundations of the Greek economy and the people who are finally legally established in the country will have a huge contribution to solving this problem. But everyone else, the entire Greek society must have a clear picture of the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u138	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, I think today's question shows the positive aspects of parliamentary control, because many of the points you have raised in your question were also for our group, which analyses the data of a bosom for data requested on migration. And you will see in the annual publication that will come to the public tomorrow that all you have asked as questions are answered and we will now systematically, most on a monthly basis, some a little more complex on a quarterly basis, but systematicly, so that you all have a full picture of what happens to immigration. And for the government it is particularly important, because it demonstrates the tangible results of our 2020 migration policy, to face a crisis that has really scourged our country for several years. On the issue of legal immigration, I think it is now a key direction in general the European Union. It is good that Europe is open, but that it is open by rules, that it is open to skills, that it is open to people who want to come to Europe to support us. And indeed good or badly, as you say, it is a reality not for our country, but for the European Union as a whole. You referred to the subject of Athens. I remember, when I was a candidate for the Athens Parliamentarian for the period 2011-2012 or for the Athens MP for the period 2012-2015, immigration was a major problem in Athens. It's nothing new. And if you see the statistics for the period 2012-2015, you will find that there was a decrease in legitimate immigrants living in Athens. During the period of the SYRIZA government 2015-2019 there was a great increase, while in the period 2019-2020 there is essentially a stability. What we discussed with the mayor of Athens is that specific areas of the city of Athens cannot raise the burden of immigration. In this context, therefore, together with Mr Bakoyannis, we want to set up a mechanism so that we can observe and direct any future flows toward the city. The reality, of course, is that refugees have freedom of movement in our country and enjoy the same rights as legal residents of the country. Of course, from that point on, our challenge is to direct them with integration programmes where there is a need for labour. And because you have also referred to the issue of immigrants coming from the land borders and ending up uncontrollable in cities, I would like to say that this was a phenomenon that has indeed been observed in previous years and, if you like, in previous decades. It is very important that the registration and identification of asylum seekers should be carried out at the point of entry and from there, that they should not be allowed to go on their own to camp in particular in Thessaloniki - something that we lived more strongly in 2018, if you remember, that crossed the border and went to the central squares of Thessaloniki - but these people can from there and beyond, organised to hosting structures that exist in our country. Host structures should consider their request and those who are entitled to international protection, receive the necessary documents and travel documents and those who are not entitled to international protection, be returned safely and in dignity to their countries of origin. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, too, Minister. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-01-18-S1-commons.u141	With the consent of the House at no time of 16.53 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 19 January 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
