ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the debate on today's topical and urgent questions, let me tell the House on Friday, 16 April 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by Mr Fotinis Pipilis to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: 'Application of the penalty for socially beneficial labour as an alternative sentence, with responsibility for self-government'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by MP Achaias of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mrs Athanasias (Syria) Anagnostopoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The public donation contract with the Onassis Foundation for the projects in the Acropolis". 3. The question by number 667/8-4-2021 of the Deputy Drama of the Change Movement Mr.Charulas (Haras) Headquarters to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "It is not possible to complete diplomatic work, laboratory studies and practice of senior students." 4. The question by No 685/12-4-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Second death of a worker in the supermarkets of Sklanitis". 5. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: “The end of the constant resurgence of abused minors.” B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 666/8-4-2021 by MP Carditsa of New Democracy Mrs.Asina Skondras to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Privatisation of High School Students in the Pan-Hellenic Examinations due to the consequences of Janus". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 669/8-4-2021, a topical question by MP Kavala of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Sultana Eleftheriadou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'There is a need for specific support measures for ENERGEAN'. 3. The question under number 674/10-4-2021 by MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Implementation of government planning to subjugate the air cables of the Greek Network Manager for Electricity (DEDO)". 4. The question by number 686/12-2021 of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The construction of a new municipal school in Falani, the Municipality of Larissa". 5. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Ioannina, the wet Tsamara is hidden in the papers to be cemented." 6. The question raised by Mr Fotinis Pipilis to the Minister of the Interior under number 670/8-4-2021 is a topical question from Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, on the subject: "Legal framework for the clearance of plots and uncovered areas by the local government (OTAs)". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 672/9-4-2021 by SYRIZA Deputy Cyclades - Progressive Alliance Mr.Nikolaou Symbleniou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Forest Papers questions in the Cyclades". 8. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "The reductions in supplementary pensions are still being made, which are not provided for in the legislative framework." 9. The Question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Aiolic in the Rodopi National Park and the Evros Delta". 10. The Question by SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Konstantinos Markos, Mr. Markos, on the subject: "Annulling the suspension provided for by Article 98 of Law No.4623/2019 (A'134) on public works". 11. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, entitled "To be attributed to the municipalities of Heraklion and Maleviziou, the parts of the land area corresponding to them". 12. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "For a year now, teachers have borne the cost of teleworking." REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 4551/25-2-2021 by Congressman B1' North Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Mariliza Xinoyannakopoulos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Alyto remains the great problem of parallel pensions for 62,400 insured with parallel insurance". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "In the air hundreds of thousands of TEI graduates without work, professional rights and no procedures for matching their diplomas with the diplomas of similar or related parts of universities." 3. Under No 4335/18-2-2021, the question of SYRIZA's MP II - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The NGO Government implements policies against small and medium-sized projects RES, energy communities and energy democracy against the European institutional framework". Today, Wednesday, 14 April 2021, we have a topical question, as the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Stylianos - Ioannis Koutnajis, tells us. It is the 681/12-24-2021 timely question of the first cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The olive oil is transformed into an unhealthy product through the distortions of Nutri - Score". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have twice postponed this meeting in order - I imagine - to be able to prepare and respond to other obligations. I see that yesterday, on Monday, you contacted Mrs Kyriakidou, which was very positive. You should know that for our part we do not see this issue in opposition. We must all be united as a fist. It is a question that directly threatens democracy, health and food production in Greece, our traditional products. This is Nutri - Score, Nutri by Nutration and Score by the classification of the nutritional value of the products. And yet, you would say that this is very right. We should definitely have a rating on the effects of food on our health. However, over here we have a system that scores from "A" to "E" - with "A" being green and good and "E" the avoidable - in front of the label, next to the logo and highlights the products of Cretan, Mediterranean, Greek food as products to be avoided, while synthetic products, as we say so many times the various glues, for example, the sugar-free gum and so on, will suddenly take "B" and be green. In other words, we see the reversal of common sense. What we know is good for our health to ask us to avoid and what we know they have preservatives, which are not looking at Nutri - Score, such as endocrine disruptors, aspartame, various substances charged with carcinogenicity, to tell us that we need to consume them! Unfortunately, in most of the countries that have been implemented, citizens tend to consume them. The studies say that citizens are going to the market of products that have 'A' and 'B', industrial and synthetic foods as we see, while the products of the Mediterranean diet, our oil, even if it is a boar oil, even if it is rich in polyphenols, although on the basis of the European directive it can claim that it is antioxidant to blood and that it is important to public health, it takes 'D', it is'red'! They artificially classed it against the algorithm, in "C" and we see that the feta goes to "E" and so on. This misunderstanding of the consumer must be stopped. It can't go any further. And you know that at the end of 2022 the consultation is being completed and it is the predominant labelling scheme to prevail throughout the European Union. It already exists in the countries which are the main destinations of quality products, our processed agricultural products of quality, oil and cheese products. We are talking about France, Germany and Belgium. There is already, as in the supermarkets of large chains in Spain and Portugal. So I called you here urgently, to tell us what specific plans you have made and what your strategy is to prevent it from happening. I have seen that you have expressed strong reservations to the Commissioner. I would like you to be even stronger in your position on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u4	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u5	I shall conclude, Mr President. Anyway, it's the only time-consuming of the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u6	You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u7	What is very important is that - to allow me to express - 'does not take us' to lose this battle, not only for democracy, not just for public health, but also for our food products, for our agricultural production. It is not a battle that we have the margin to give it in procedural terms. We're not calling you again and again to tell you what you're doing. We will invite you to tell us what you have achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u8	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arsenis, you are doing very well and bringing us here, through parliamentary control, on this very important issue. To start with, to answer your question, I would like to clarify two important aspects raised in it. First, the Greek Government has a specific position on the issue, which it systematically supports and promotes, consistently and consistently, both bilaterally and at Union level. Our aim is to harmonise nutrition labelling systems - what you said before - at European Union level. Secondly, our aim is for the system to help the consumer understand the information on the nutritional composition of foodstuffs, namely to be descriptive. The system should not use color categorisation of food or evaluate food as a whole. Foods belonging to the following product categories of origin, protected geographical indication and guaranteed traditional specialities, as well as products of a component, such as olive oil, to which you have extensively referred, and honey, should be effectively excluded from the application of the scheme. At the meeting of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council last autumn, Greece, together with Italy and the Czech Republic, opposed the adoption of joint conclusions on the issue of food labelling, because of their serious and important reservations. Greece, as you know, did not support the German Presidency's text because of the lack of clarity, as regards the implementation of a single and harmonised system for all Member States, as well as the lack of an explicit exception to geographical indication products and mono-systemic foods, including olive oil, which is focused on your question. The second is that, as I was told the day before yesterday at the teleconferencing that the European Commissioner is responsible for this matter, today at the point where we are - and indeed everything you say has been done - there has been no specific decision on this proposed legislative proposal. In other words, we are basically at the stage of public consultation. So under no circumstances should we consider that there is a given or preconceived decision at the moment. I would remind you - I think you said it a moment ago - that, according to the programming of the European Union, the objective is that this decision should have been taken in the last quarter of 2022. The committee is currently working on the relevant impact assessment studies - that is to say we are waiting for them - of which we will then have a new public consultation, and the final proposal will have to be agreed by the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers. Our Greek position and serious reservations have been expressed many times since I took up my duties both to the Commissioners responsible, Mrs Kyriakidou the other day, but also to my counterparts in Italy and the Netherlands at the private meetings we have had, as well as to the ambassadors of Germany, the Netherlands and Italy, whom I saw here in Athens. We will continue with this effort that we are doing both with European counterparts and with the other ambassadors of the European Union. The same - I assure you - are all the services of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, the permanent Greek delegation to the European Union, in order to broaden our alliance, to understand what you said a moment ago and what I analysed you a few minutes ago in my speech. You realise that we are consistent with this position and, of course, any proposal that may come from you or from anyone else, at this stage and in the next period, will be very, very useful. But let me - if I may, Mr President, cover this issue because I wanted to say two three things about it - to put another dimension to today's debate, which I appreciate as much as I know you and which I can see to you that it will find you more in agreement. We all have as absolute priority the protection of the health of our citizens, the promotion and support of a healthy and balanced diet and the best possible information and understanding on the part of consumers - that is very, very important for our country too - the nutritional value of the food we buy and consume. This is also the point of the European Union's forward regulatory initiative, which is part of the strategy 'from the farm to the plate'. I also think that we agree that the current situation by using different food labelling schemes in the Member States - Member States of the European Union - because it is not just Nutri - Score, it is others that each Member State uses - inevitably leads all consumers to confusion and lack of confidence, to higher costs for companies that export and carry on cross-border activities, as well as to fragmentation of the internal market. The intention, therefore, to find a common harmonized pattern on the front of foodstuffs, which is understandable and understandable to the consumer, is an ideal objective. The Greek Government wishes to place itself in the whole problem, not only in opposition, but also in a positive speech. We are trying to contribute to this whole European debate with a scientifically documented position in the project. Our aim is to create a shape, which will take into account all - and we mean that - the decisive parameters of the nutritional value of a food, which we also agree with, that the Nutri-Score system, which, as you know, has already been adopted by many Member States, with the exception of important markets and export destinations of Greek products, is not, in essence and absolutely fails to reflect the nutritional value of traditional regional foods, such as olive oil, which has been proven to be an added value for human health, for our well-being. We have set as the main priority the strategic plan of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food the resettlement, promotion and promotion of what we all consider to be a key element of our identity, the Greek diet, in the very anniversary of the Greek Revolution. The aim of this flagship initiative is to strengthen and further disseminate the reputation of Greek food products and food and to contribute to their upgrading to consumer consciousness, to highlight and protect the characteristics and properties that differentiate them, make them superior to nutritional value and organoleptic characteristics, link them to modern food needs and modern lifestyle and make them beneficial to human health and the sustainability of our planet. The aim is also to facilitate the adoption of good practices and the enhancement of innovation at all stages of the chain, to highlight the importance and protection of endemic species of flora and fauna used in our diet and to enhance extroversion, by improving access to markets. So the main pillars of our flagship initiative are, among other things, strengthening and promoting the nutritional value of the Greek food and its ingredients, as well as making it possible to make a substantial contribution to preventing health risks. In a short time we will be ready to present our strategy, objectives and priorities to the full extent. On this path - Mr Arachovitis, who has dealt with these issues in the past - we are really calling on you all the parties in this House and you - which I know your interest - to contribute in this direction and to put us all together towards this key - in our opinion - an emblematic part of our policy. I felt it appropriate today to take advantage of the opportunity you have given me in your question and to announce here in the House that an advisory group is set up to provide technical and scientific support to all of us, on the strategy, precisely in the food sector, in the context of this 'Greek Nutrition' programme, firstly, to monitor and consult on the ongoing European Commission legislative initiative. This consultative group will serve renowned scientists and academics. We have a series of those with which we have begun cooperation. If you are judging that there are people with whom you speak and can be useful in this direction, I would very much like you to introduce them to me. In conclusion, the Greek Government will consistently continue the multi-level implementation of its strategy, in terms of promoting its formulated position on the major issue of this major food labelling, without running behind developments, without bringing only a sterile counterpart, but contributing positively and constructively to this public debate that is currently taking place in the European Union. As I said before and if you have today or at any other time, we are very open to hear your proposals and to go along with them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, Mr Arsenis and you in your comfort - we have a case, we still have time - you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you know I appreciate you because you are not a trout minister, as this government has used us to, but you really want to create consent. And we observe that and appreciate it. I'm going to be honest, here so far I don't see you being sufficiently mobilized. The fact that you met three countries through either your counterparts or the ambassadors in Greece is not enough. And I see you have a feeling there's time. There's no time. I want to be clear: Consultation ends at the end of 2022 - and it can take a small extension because of a coronary - but that is not a good time. On the contrary, we have 'NESTLE', 'DANONE', 'MARS', chains like 'LIDL', 'CARREFOUR', 'DELHAIZE' and so on. We have colossians who have great interests that are played by passing Nutri-Score. We should really not waste time and day in this battle together. Because you know that by 2014 I was in the European Parliament and I have rejected legislation - personally with my own mobilisation Parliament rejected the legislation prohibiting the use of traditional seeds in cultivation, but also other legislations along with other MEPs - our MEPs are playing an important role here. I therefore urge you to have a joint meeting - but Immediately! - not in 2022- Immediately! - the Committee on Production and Trade and the Committee on European Affairs, in the presence of the MEPs and the MEPs commit themselves to going to the political groups and making resolutions against Nutri-Score. In this way a'red flag' comes in on this issue and when it comes to the European Parliament, it has a shocking chance of being rejected. This is how the European Parliament works. Also, at the level of embassies, our commercial followers and groups of our embassies must speak with local producers, inform them in the various European Union countries of what it means, there is a lack of information. In Greece, only the olive producers in Crete and the Lakonia Chamber of Commerce have so far been mobilised. Now a total mobilisation is taking place in the Peloponnese, but mobilisation is being gradually spread across all countries. That is why I also call on the citizens who are listening to us as soon as this meeting ends to call the producers of their acquaintances to inform them. It's not only oil, it's feta, all our dairy products, many Greek food products and honey. We really need to mobilise ourselves at every level of municipalities and regions by means of resolutions. It is not possible for a party to have brought this issue to a timely question. The whole Chamber should be bending on this issue. Also, in order to understand, even the Greek food you are proposing - and it is good to see this initiative, very important, to see it - is the Mediterranean diet in substance and our local traditional products, which is very important. However, it tells us the experience of the countries applying Nutri - Score, from Germany, Belgium and France that citizens are gradually trained in buying 'A' and 'B' products, which are the green flag, the quality product is supposed, even if they have preservatives, to be synthetic, to have aspartame, endocrine disruptors, whatever may cause a health problem. The experience tells us, then, that when Greece and our Greek fellow citizens are applied at some point they will begin to addict and learn this 'green' casino system against'red'. You may have the label "Greek Nutrition", but it will have "red" on it and it will also have "orange". In the end, the citizens will not take this either, so your initiative is canceled if Nutri - Score passes, to understand the extent of the danger that we are discussing. So we need mobilization. Nutri - Score is - and I want to make that very clear - the most prestigious and only essentially candidate system for the labelling of products in Europe. The reason why there are different systems is because the previous directive called for various systems to be tested in order to review now - the consultation ends in 2022 - to select what is best. All that has been tested in more than one country, as far as I know, is Nutri - Score. There is a system that has been tested only in Italy - perhaps a few more - but Nutri-Score has been tested in France, which supports it, in Belgium, which supports it, and even Spain supports it. And because you spoke about excluding mono-systemic products, I would like to tell you that I, too, was considering this as an option at the beginning. But I see that it can't be a solution. Nutri - Score completely should be rejected. Can I tell you why? Because if all products are green, because they are healthy - 'A' take synthetics - and suddenly a product is not labelled, then there is a'skis' and doubt about its effects on health. In other words, the exception from labelling is a negative end-point when citizens are accustomed to this labelling system, as they have become accustomed to the main destinations of our high-quality agricultural products in Germany, Belgium and France. Finally, that is, even if we exclude oil and other products from our labelling, that is not enough, they will again be criminalised because of doubts in a system that tells the citizens: 'We as the European Union suggest you consume these products and that if you make these choices, you will have better health. If you do another, if you finally choose the Mediterranean diet, you will have worse health." That's what he says. That's why concrete measures are needed. Firstly, we should start with what I said to you, namely by a direct convening of the Committee on Production and Trade with the Committee on European Affairs, where MEPs are committed to action in the European Parliament, while I hope you will step up your action at the European Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, I would first like to say that I fully agree with your proposals and convene the two committees. I will take the initiative and the idea that you have had, that is to say, to convene together the Committee on Production and Trade and the Committee on European Affairs, so that we can inform them and make a substantial debate, involve the other parties, and inform the MEPs too. I have already done so in private, but I think it is useful to have symbolism, to have this meeting. It is also a good idea and we will make it right away, inform the commercial followers of our embassies and send them the information material to act autonomously. But, as I said before, we with our delegation in Brussels and the services at the Ministry are doing this, but we will also involve the embassies. It's useful what you said. Overall and by closing this debate, I would like to say that our policy axis is the deterrent to Nutri - Score, which is what you are describing. The second axis is the positive approach of a 'Front Labelling', that is to say, to convince the other Europeans that it is necessary, because it really needs and would be very good for future generations, but that, firstly, should not have this absolute separation of colours, because this is very important as a shape on the one hand and, on the other, it should include more information on the essential nutritional parameters and on organoleptic characteristics. That is precisely the procedure we are trying to substantiate with the committee that I told you before. We are trying, in other words, not only to remain in opposition, which I agree to organise together, but to be able to propose some other ideas that will go to another product, such as the battery, for example, which they have in Italy. Of course, other countries have such other systems. If I'm not mistaken, I think it's twenty different systems. However, there must be no such intense colouring on the one hand and, on the other, there must be substantial labelling either by barcode or directly, we will see how. However, we should have a positive proposal throughout this debate and not just be 'objectives'. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that this idea and the pillar of our Greek nutrition policy, which includes the dimension of Nutri - Score, is an attempt to reinstate the identity of the Greeks in relation to the Greek product produced, to connect it to health, obviously on the one hand, and on the other hand to our history, our culture and, of course, to tourism. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] This political proposal by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food will help us to add value to our products, as well as essentially identify production with the modern Greek and within this framework, to give the message that, after the pandemic, it will come mainly from the Greek region and not through the urban centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent question has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Request for waiver of immunity: debate and decision pursuant to Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the House on the request for the waiver of immunity of Mr Stavros Arachovitis. At this point, I would like to inform the House of the matter, as is done every time. You have also taken your newsletters and your ballots. So this is the well-known case of FOLLI FOLLIE, where Mr Stavros Arachovitis is alleged to be involved. I will not go into the substance of the case, because it is not a matter of our committee. Following claims made by an investment fund, FOLLI FOLLIE carried out an audit and showed that its finances were unsatisfactory. In the audit carried out, following a report drawn up, after a request from the capital market for an investigation by auditors in the committee, the name of Mr Arachovitis was also involved in two actions. One concerns - so it is involved, we do not consider the merits - the bribery of policies, and the other concerns the old law 'incidents'. It is, in other words, the marketing of influence. That's the point. Mr Arachovitis said in committee that he had nothing to do with the case and that it is matters that justice will consider. He left the matter in the committee's judgement and the committee said by a majority that immunity should be lifted. That's the story. We will soon be told by the colleague himself. If any other Member wants to take the floor, he can do so. At the same time, two other ministers of the then government are involved. The procedure of the Law on Responsibility of Ministers has not even been initiated, nor is Article 86 of the Constitution against these colleagues, at least at present. Here, Mr Arachovitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have never imagined that I would be in a position to discuss in plenary the lifting of my immunity for some of the crimes I am ignoring, the prosecutor's office has not clearly defined and only a portion of the press has rushed to give dimensions of a scandal with reports which have then not been proved or founded. It all started with a phrase from a low-ranking official of FOLLI FOLLIE. In an e-mail message from a company security officer to his bosses, he mentions me together, among other things, two former ministers, that we support the group. There is no other reference to my name in the whole of the report, under Article 39 of the Code of Criminal Procedure accompanying the request of the prosecutor, any other point or element, any testimony of the persons involved or members of the Securities and Market Committee confirming that they have ever been in contact with me on this or any other matter. An e-mail from a security officer - not an administrative or administrative official - in which he claims I support the group, is the only element on which such a serious accusation can be based against me? In fact, the sender himself clearly stated that he addressed his bosses to sell a statement that government officials would intervene in the Securities Committee in favour of the company controlled at that time. But are there any signs of intervention? Apparently not! Instead, there was a direct investigation of the financial statements of the company, which was controlled and sanctions imposed, and what was revealed for the owners' actions was enough to be confiscated. In fact, the fine imposed by the Securities Committee is one of the largest ever imposed by the establishment of the Securities and Markets Committee. I have stated very clearly at the very first moment that I do not know this gentleman, nor any of the managers, nor of course the owners or members of the group's family. After all, he admits this with statements he made in an interview he gave after the issue had been raised. The relevant excerpts of the interview are submitted to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the matter of my involvement, I have, of course, filed a complaint against the sender of the message about the offence of slandering, as do my colleagues, then ministers. And this lawsuit I file in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the time I was a mere MEP, responsible for monitoring the government's work in the field of agricultural work. Since the case of the investigating company did not come within the area of my parliamentary interest, during the leakage of the criminal file in the press, I knew the case as any other citizen knew it through the publications of the time and nothing more. In trying to find evidence of a scandal odor in the case, part of the press, in which the contents of the case are unlawfully leaked, it refers to an amendment tabled and voted inter alia at the time for duty-free centres. This same amendment, of course, came back by the New Democracy Government two years later, in 2020. This amendment does not even bear my signature. However, the fact that the Public Prosecutor initiated the request for waiver of immunity is exclusively that the company’s interim management audit report, carried out by the Price Waterhouse Coopers, contains e-mails addressed by the company’s security director, FOLLI FOLLIE, to its employer and owner. The contents of this report on Monday, December 21, 2020 leaked - obviously artificially - into the printed and electronic press and followed a large number of publications on the revelation of allegedly interventions by SYRIZA officials in favour of FOLLIE FOLLIE, as presented by a press section, aimed at highlighting a political scandal. It is clearly stated in this report that it is stated: 'It is noted that communications are listed for reasons of completeness in the processing of the data given to us, but it was not possible to confirm their accuracy nor whether the facts are described, indeed took place or whether the actions discussed were carried out and the communication sender mentions as being carried out'. The leak was clearly illegal. The leaking of data into the public eye of an investigation that was under way before the parties were even informed is clearly an illegal act. This leak and the dimension that it then took caused political damage, both to me personally and to the political body in which I am involved. It also caused me enormous moral, personal and family damage. Both time and way of illegal leaking demonstrate political feasibility. While the investigation into the criminal offences committed by the company was in full progress and, until then, no indication of the case had arisen, the leak appears politically significant in time with the mention of my name and other political persons. No reference shall be made to any non-political or accidental persons. They are targeted in order to give credibility to his so-called bosses, in order to extract their favor or anything else. My name is therefore mentioned for obvious political reasons. It can therefore be seen that the prosecutor, at the expense of the publicity received in the case, was prompted to order prosecution against the former Ministers and me. As far as the former Ministers are concerned, as the President rightly said, the procedure has not been initiated because there is obviously no need for further investigation. In the case of my own as a parliamentarian at the time, the committee refers the relevant decision to the Senate, on the basis of the Constitution and the current Rules of Procedure. Is there any reason to investigate the same fact for me by the public prosecutor, because I am a mere MP? You will tell me that the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure leave no room for the committee responsible to investigate the facts. When there are no incidents, however, what framework do the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure leave? Here you decide as a Plenary, not on the incidents themselves, but on whether the imminent persecution for which your licence is sought is linked to realities which can be proved or whether the only framework on which the political qualities of the people are based are the ones. Ladies and gentlemen, because throughout my political career I have never put my own personal interest, party identity or political agenda beyond the interests of the public, who have sworn to preserve, during my term of office, I have tried - and I think I have succeeded - to serve my function outside and beyond all kinds of micro-party, micro-political and to perform my duties honestly, honouring the vote of the people who have elected me. I believe that there is not even a colleague who believes there is even a frustration of truth in what has been said as a so-called intervention scandal. The real facts have already been disproved. Given the content of the case-file that does not concern me, it does not concern my own actions, but it is mentioned slanderically in my name alone, I believe that the criminal investigation of the case will only help to maintain the morbid climate at the expense of my parliamentary office, providing false and totally constructed rumours of the soil to be maintained for a longer period, without in any case serving the purpose of the law, since there are not even any evidence of proven false declarations and fantasies, as he has submitted. You are all aware of the convenience with which any Member can become a controlled criminal, with the sole reference of his name by any fantasy who decides to use it unawarely to sell works or appear to have high connections. Of course, all the above, ladies and gentlemen, it would make sense to hear if the procedure in plenary took place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House and the physical presence of Members in the Chamber and not through the extraordinary procedure of the letter of vote, namely by means of a preliminary decision from our parliamentary groups. That is why I fully endorse the decision of the President of SYRIZA and my parliamentary group on abstaining from today's vote. In any case, either by my lawsuit or by the procedure, the truth will shine and justice will be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Arachovitis. Is there a colleague who wants to speak? Parliamentary representatives can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u19	Here, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I actually asked for the floor on a point of order, because on the substance of what Mr Arachovitis said a moment ago, the truth is that the House of Parliament was informed not for the first time. And I say 'not for the first time', because the Greek Parliament, the National Representation, has already been informed by the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy the other day, by Mr Plouris, who said that in the very same case the New Democracy has not considered that there is sufficient, even basic evidence, to proceed with the criminal investigation of this case with regard to the involvement of the two former ministers who also refer to this case. The reason why we have asked for the floor, Mr President, is a procedural one, but at the same time very substantial one. It is well known to the National Representation that for some time now, in a very intense way, first during the meetings of the Conference of Presidents, but also with the top position that has been made by the Chief of Officerial Representation, the President of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, we have raised the great objection we have about how Parliament functions within the pandemic. In particular, we have expressed our complete opposition to the fact that this distortion of procedures continues, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the House during each roll-call vote. And that was what we lived the other day in the process of setting up the Preliminary Examination Committee for Mr Papa, where a hundred forty-two Members appeared to be involved by letter vote - if possible! - as if there were a hundred forty two pregnancies or those who were abroad or those who were in quarantine, and indeed, I am referring to a secret ballot right now. But it is not only the subject of the secret vote, but it is also the question of the distortion of the Members' ability, but also Parliament and, by extension, the Greek people, to be officially informed by each Member, by name, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure, but also by the Constitution, of what is his opinion whenever a matter of roll-call voting arises. As it is well known at the moment, but also in the past, all these procedures have been carried out through the parliamentary groups, which we know very well that it removes the possibility of directly expressing the opinion and the will of the Member and the Member. In this sense, having already warned, but at the same time, seeing that the tactical majority of the government is not changing, there is no wish at the moment to apply the Rules of Parliament and at the same time, if you like, to apply what new technologies allow. The new technologies, Mr President, allow Members to participate in a roll-call vote through the system used to speak and buy in the Greek Parliament. These new technologies in a large number of national parliaments across Europe and around the world have enabled the Member to express his opinion directly through these electronic procedures, and the same applies - as you know very well, I imagine - to the European Parliament as well. So there is no excuse for the present procedure to continue, I repeat, substantially distorting the procedures and the possibility for Members to express themselves freely. We have decided officially now and within Parliament we are announcing it at the moment: we will not be taking part again in a roll-call vote under this regime and under these procedures. We will expect the government's majority to assume its responsibility towards democracy, to Parliament, to the Members themselves, to the Greek people themselves, to stop this unacceptable manoeuvre used completely over the past period and, when this happens, we will also come back with participation in the roll-call votes. That's all. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr Ragosi. Is there another colleague who wants to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I too have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u23	Of course, Mr. Voutsi. Before I give you the floor, however, to ask the President of Parliament. Mr President, will you now take the floor or what? Konstantinos Tasoulas (Chairman of the House): Are there many people who want to talk about it? Let me speak last.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u24	Good. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor. After Mr Kegeroglu, the former President of the Parliament, Mr Voutsis, will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. As you know, at the committee meeting I suggested that the case-file should be sent again to the public prosecutor and that the investigation should proceed and that if the investigation really meets the Member's name, the House should bring the request to discuss it. This view was not accepted, with the argument of the formality of the relevant articles of the Constitution and of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Here I would like to point out, by opening up a parentheses, that those who 'centered' this article again did not succeed well. The provision that was in the previous period and based on circulars to enter and initiate the procedure to see whether they have a reasonable basis or anything else, was not and so the House comes before a typical question, as formulated. We, despite the fact that the committee is not allowed to get into reality, have - and as I said in committee, I see there is nothing but a single set-up of a story by someone to buy money from the administration, taking advantage of and slandering other people. The case of FOLLI FOLLIE has its essence elsewhere, probably on the Capital Market, probably on other issues, but not on it. It is a question of why we do not look into it from this side. My position in the procedure was, therefore,'represent' in the sense of reservation, so that I can explain the data to my fellow Members and vote in accordance with their wishes for the withdrawal today. I can explain in advance that any 'yes' which I have given by colleagues following the explanations I have given is based precisely on the formality and obligation arising from the Constitution and under no circumstances on the substance of the case, for which I have personally told you what I have a point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The President, Mr. Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for a very short time at the outset, I will speak on the question of the letter of vote, and then I would like to speak on the substance of the matter that we have today, on the specific waiver of immunity. I will speak a little bit about the first, precisely because Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Ragus, think that he has fully set out all political and procedural aspects of the matter. I would just like to remind you, because it is present and will take the floor, and the President-in-Office, Mr Tasoulos, that, four months ago, when we were in front of the spectrum of coming to a third wave in the pandemic, we had, for the first time, set in detail a special debate on the plenary session of the Conference of Presidents, for the first time our proposal to find the opportunity through the electronic path of the vote of self-pity by all the Members. It was said at that time that this issue would of course be dealt with, which would be resolved. There were also data from the European Parliament, which has more than twice as many MEPs, but let me say even from procedures that make political organisations such as SYRIZA and social organisations, etc., with the participation of hundreds of people, where they are given the opportunity at the end and if there is a voting issue, that their own vote should be recorded autonomously. The same could then be done in the matter of secrecy. These months have passed, and I really want to hear why it is not possible for the Greek Parliament to defend the essence, the core of the voting process, and the use of new technologies, which are now, unfortunately, and fortunately also because of the pandemic, are also being used in the political institutions. However, I come in particular to the question of the waiver of the immunity of Mr Arachovitis, Mr Arachovitis. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you directly, and I say this with responsibility, not to vote in favour of this proposal because it will be once again - but from a few times, it is true from what I remember in Parliament - which, through our vote, we will have enabled a system of deception and coercion of the country's political system. That is to say, anyone who just mentions something and not by suing, not by denouncing, mentioning a name of any politician, and then through the unacceptable manoeuvring of the leaks directly of the documents - a subject which we have also dealt with many times and, of course, we have condemned all of us - to create a communication environment of Scandalology, targeting political persons for weeks, months. And then the House will be bound by the objectivity that its Rules of Procedure, the spirit of political operation, requires that any Member of this House move to the court of justice without the slightest indication - and in this regard it has been mentioned that the whole of the parties have not raised a question for political persons in relation to this history - that the colleague should come before the House, perhaps for months or years of this oppression or of mere reference, in this case, against him. You realise that our scope as parliamentarians, as ministers, as part of the political system of each of us and each of us, but also of our parties, is extremely limited and goes into the slippery process of this communication process, of Scandinavianism, of targeting, and it seems that the political system, in this case Parliament, which is the core and its heart, should be placed in a position on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, with this political thinking that I would like to put forward for the Minutes of today's sitting, because they are coming and returning to such cases, I call directly on the Members who will be voting not to vote in favour of the proposal for Mr Arachovitis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u28	Before I give the floor to Mr Synergy to say, Mr President, you are basically in agreement with what Mr Kegeroglu said. I am not talking about the subject of procedure, the President will tell us. But on the subject of Mr Arachovitis, the President of the Parliament about two months ago, on the occasion of another case, sent a document to the prosecutor of the Ice Bay and asked for Article 83(1) to be applied so that the material before it came to the House could be checked by the prosecutor of the Ice Bay, that is to say a filtering. Unfortunately, we also see it in committee, in some cases it has not been done. I would once again ask the President to repeat this document. I say this now, Mr President. Because the cases do want a filter. This process could go a little further and there could be more evidence coming up. It has not been done, but this is not a matter for the Bureau. I'm just telling you, I agree. Mr Kegeroglu has put it in committee too, so the President will see it. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. We as a Communist Party of Greece will vote against the lifting of immunity for Mr Arahovitis. The only thing that exists, that is, what we know, is an e-mail of the company in which an e-mail mentions the name of Mr Arachovitis. Only for this reason is the prosecutor making this document in the House for Mr Arahovitis at the time that the prosecutor has not been invited by the public prosecutor to send an e-mail. These are unacceptable things. I'm sorry, but here's the thing about lifting immunities for flea fuck. So here is where this change in the law on the lifting of immunities has led. I mean, they're opening dangerous intruders. With this in mind, we are voting against the lifting of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Covenant. The President has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u31	On the issue of immunity, which has been raised, I would remind you that, in a communication we have had - and the Conference of Presidents and the House of Parliament are aware - the previous examination, as required by the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, is now being carried out in order to ensure that those who are obviously unfounded do not even come. This is usually the case of'sincere betrayal' cases for vote. There is a perception to some of our fellow citizens that voting can be put under the Damonian crackdown on the crime of the last treason, which both the Constitution and logic do not demand. This has been solved and there are many procedural documents of such kind that no longer come because they are examined, examined and filed. There is also this version which has been heard today. This version will also be considered in order to give the correct solution. I come now not against each other, because my role is no longer that, in the next matter. My role for the last thirteen months has been more protectionist for all of you and not all of you, but a role of dispute or confrontation, and indeed a protectionist unexpectedly, because in the last thirteen months, like the whole country, Parliament has come under the depressing shadow of the pandemic. We've adjusted our function. Obviously, we were unprepared for such a thing as the entire world, but we did not prove to be inappropriate, we adapted our activity. Yesterday, at the valley of parliamentism, if you saw, in Great Britain, London, in the House of Commons, a minute silence was observed in the memory of the deceased wife of Queen Elisabeth Duke of Edinburgh. In the valley of parliamentism yesterday, in order to honor the deceased wife of the queen from the six hundred fifty MPs, fewer than twenty were present at that symposium, longer distances. And I say that in relation to the physical presence that has been set. The reason that has been heard and with which I am not in dispute, I shall simply say the other view, is that SYRIZA decides to abstain from the roll-call votes, because they are carried out by way of a written vote and not by a physical presence, which is an infringement of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, and which is also a distortion, I read the announcement from the newspaper 'AGEAN'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u32	It's not exactly like that. With an electronic presence...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u33	Don't interrupt, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u34	I read the announcement distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u35	It's a story, it's not a announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u36	Relief on what we said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u37	Please don't interrupt. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u38	Please note, in April 2020, by a decision of the Conference of Presidents for reasons of limitation of the physical presence, the possibility of voting in roll-call votes was decided. If you remember in May and June, we had a clear improvement in the situation that many of us were glad and deceived, because that was not the case at all. On 24 September 2020, while the phenomenon began to attack again, the Scientific Council of Parliament unanimously consulted that it is justified and compatible with the constitutional order to adopt in the Rules of the Parliament regulation the content of Article 70A. In other words, with the absence abroad and with pregnancy, in order to safeguard the major good of public health, Members can participate in the roll-call votes. The provision in the Rules of Procedure has thus been formulated as follows: Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure. ‘Police who are on a mission of the government or parliament abroad may participate in the votes when they are nominal and when a qualified majority is required to take a decision by letter or fax bearing their signature and corresponding reference to the matter. These arrangements shall apply accordingly in the case of pregnant Members of Parliament for the last month of pregnancy, as in the case of Members who are not physically present at Parliament sittings on account of measures taken under Rule 14(i) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure.’ Rule 14(i) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure speaks of the adoption of measures due to an epidemic or a pandemic. It is therefore in Parliament's Rules of Procedure that the schizophrenic vote on the extent to which it has recently taken place. The area that has been happening lately is obviously intended to prevent Members from joining the Parliament, which also brings together partners, police officers, drivers and others. They have so far been in 2020 and 2021 twenty-one votes involving all parties - and SYRIZA - by means of a letter of vote. In this budget, immunity, bills, pre-examination and all that. The case of the technological solution in order to make the roll-call vote by imaging the colleague on the screen and expressing his opinion 'yes', 'no','represent' is a case which has been examined and proved to be extremely precarious in practice. Extremely precarious. It has been examined here in the Chamber. We had a flaw, a bad connection, a precarious one. "On September 23, 2020, the results of the trial teleconferencing conference, which was linked to some seventy officials and Members of the Parliament in the attempt to simulate the voting process," writes me the relevant information and communication service of Parliament "were not at all encouraging with major problems the lack of visual presence of all those who tried to participate through mobile phones or through a low range of internet connections". What does it mean to low-speed? Now we're entering a special conversation. I won't extend it. It is considered that if it is under 50 mbps the speed of the internet where the person who wants to display the image is installed, this is extremely insecure. I'm telling you one example. So that I could vote today with my view on the screen from my house in Kifisia, which has 30 mbps, would be from here, from the suburb of Athens, a precarious image mission on the screen. Imagine being in Metsovo or Konica, as MP Ioanninas, or in another area. Look out, ladies and gentlemen. I understand that concept. It's another concept. But he noticed the precariousness of perception. If even a Member of Parliament in three hundred cannot vote because of a technical or other obstacle to a roll-call vote has the whole vote. If a Member does not speak in a bill, which is the case, we see it and have suffered several people, the legislative procedure is not void. It's two different procedures. Mrs Gerovalis has repeatedly spoken to me in the Conference of Presidents on this matter. Mr. Tsipras himself spoke to me about this matter. You put it in your party organs. Today you are abducting these votes because the way they vote is distorting. Let me stress that the way in which the letter of vote may not be technologically advanced, it may be rotten, it may be 'Arabas', if you want, but it does not distort the vote, it ensures the vote in these difficult circumstances. I would like to mention the minutes of the plenary session of the Scientific Council of the House of 24 September, which I have given you on this question. ‘In view of the constraints imposed on the entry and presence of Members in Parliament due to the pandemic and the subsequent avoidance of conspiracy to protect public health, restrictions which are decided, not least, by the Conference, on the subject of the implementation of the so-called epilepsy vote in the roll-call votes instead of the own-faced attendance and the three hundred Members of Parliament due precisely to the need to avoid conspiracy. In conclusion, the personal presence of MPs in the Parliament also implies the presence of additional persons such as police officers, drivers and associates at a time when such attendance is avoided. It follows from and in the light of the wording of Article 70(7) of the Constitution that the possibility of a letter of written vote is compatible with the constitutional order.' I ask. And he responds to the Scientific Council: "In the light of the above, it is clear that we are against the possibility that Members may participate during the pandemic period in the roll-call votes..." We are in this period. Yesterday we had more than four thousand cases, over eight hundred tubes, over ninety dead. Terrible situations of pandemic excitement. The categorisation, therefore, of the Members' ability to participate in roll-call votes, 'is an operational need corresponding to the rules laid down in Rules 70(7) of the Constitution and 70A of the Rules of Procedure. It is therefore justified and compatible with the constitutional order to adopt in the Rules of Procedure similar to those contained in Rule 70A and with regard to the case in question by the President of Parliament that Members who, for the sake of the great good of public health, are temporarily excluded from the physical presence of the Parliament, may participate in the roll-call votes and thus contribute to the work carried out in the House by serving as the very purpose of their representation in the parliamentary term." I can admit that the method is not modern, that it is not technologically advanced, but is not distorting the expression of an opinion, according to the unanimous expression of the opinion of the scientific service. From that point of view, I would like to tell you that this is not in breach of the Rules of Procedure. See FEK A/187/1 October 2020. Parliament's Rules of Procedure provide for this way of voting as long as this procedure is held. It's protective of both your health and your opinion. Technology has helped us, it has reached a hybrid solution that facilitates us, but I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, that speaking in a bill, another one's opinion, another one's vote. A colleague - and it is not one - in the example of the seventeen - is many more - to be able not to appear and vote, the validity of the whole vote is undermined. We're going to get through this problem, we're going to get through this. I am in agreement with the competent service of the House which handles these issues. I have your own pressure, a recommendation, but to God - and I do not want to dictate political behaviour - it is not the dilemma that distorts the mind. The Constitution of the country speaks of various voting methods, but it refers only to the letter vote, not to the case of the Parliament, in the case of the flaws. But if for a voting descent the Constitution is qualified, it refers to the letter vote. In my opinion, therefore, this system does not distort the expression of an opinion, facilitates compliance with the measures, and since the technological system cannot guarantee the intact and full participation of everything, it is extremely risky and insecure to observe it, because the will of colleagues would be unified if not all of them could be linked to the system. So I think that, as there is a view, this must be done technologically, so I wanted the other opinion to be heard. It's not a dispute, it's not a stubbornness. It is an unprecedented sense of weight that I bring upon me to protect both your health and your mind and your political expression in this difficult period we are going through. And let me tell you, as I see you here today, that on the 19th and 20th of the month they will become a rapid test at the office of the Parliament. Please take part.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, would you excuse me for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u41	No, Mr. Ragossi, I'll tell you. It's all over the place. It is an entrepreneurial argument that you have said so, and the President, Mr Voutsis, has said so, and the President has said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u42	There was a reference and I have to clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u43	Now, if you answer again, they'll all want to talk again. It's not a matter. I think that's over. There is no staff or is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. We're moving forward now. The argument has been developed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2018 on this procedure, the new electronic roll-call system has been triggered. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda has been concluded, we will proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said before. A letter of vote has been sent to Parliament's groups for those Members who wish to vote and cannot attend the sitting because of restrictive measures against the coronary. I would remind you that after you have registered your vote, you have the opportunity to check it or even to revise it by the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials responsible may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened, so that Members may vote on the request for waiver of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes by colleagues have been sent to the Bureau under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure and the decision of the Conference of Presidents of Thursday, 24 September 2020, with which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the electronic counting, which will be followed and submitted in the Minutes. [[The letters referred to above are lodged in the minutes and are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, until the count is completed and the result is obtained, we enter the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: ‘Internal Audit System of the Public Sector, Adviser to Integrity in Public Administration and other provisions on Public Administration and Local Government’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 8 April 2021 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting on the principle of articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives should be involved, a circle, as a matter of priority, which will include one speaker from each parliamentary group and a 12-mile circle of speakers with the following ratios. Five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, a colleague from the Change Movement, a colleague from the KKE, a colleague from the Greek Solution and a colleague from Mera25. A teleconferencing service shall also be proposed for a twelve-aisled circle of speakers with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u46	The House has agreed. The rapporteur, Mr Efstathos Konstantinides, therefore, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u48	Please, Mr. Constantinidis, if you'd like to have a moment. Here, Mr. Hatzigiannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. We want to object to three SYRIZA MPs, myself, Mr Zachariadis and Mr Ragus, on Article 54 of the bill we are discussing. If I have the floor, I'd like to raise the objection. I'll develop it. There has been a lot of discussion in the committees. The Minister answered us with all the political objections we had. We hadn't seen the constitutional issues. But the reality is that it has made us in the process to look into all the case-law of the Council of State and to study the issue of constitutionality or not of this provision. And although the Minister has replied to us that this is a provision clarifying the earlier provision which came with Law 4765/2021, the reality is that it is not a provision which is a provision which affects the core of Article 101a of the current constitution. And to be clearer, Article 101, which defines the terms and functions of the independent authorities, including the AACC, which relates to this article, states that its members...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u50	Now you're developing, as I understand it. You're not going to develop later, I guess. Because the procedure is now planning to be submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u51	I can do it as you wish, Mr President. I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u52	I have no problem talking to you two more minutes. It's just that the procedure is about to be filed here...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u53	We'll testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u54	...and to be distributed to the rapporteurs, to have a knowledge and then, when time is set,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u55	Yes, Mr President, better.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u56	...you will be given the opportunity to develop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u57	Yes, Mr. President. We have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u58	I'm not taking away your word. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u59	Yeah, I get it. It's clear. So we're filing it now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u60	Come to the Bureau and testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u61	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u62	Do you want the floor, Mr. Brutsi? To be distributed first...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u63	That's exactly what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u64	Listen to me. The procedure is: To be distributed, to be aware of what Mr Hatzigiannakis said, what the argument is and then you will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u65	I would like to say that with regard to the objection of unconstitutionality made by SYRIZA and tabled just before you, our proposal is to be discussed after the circle of rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u66	As to the time of the procedure you wanted to say. I'll read it right now, and we'll see what time we'll determine. It will, however, be sufficient for you to know, for you to be appointed rapporteurs, contributors, etc. Mr. Constantinidis, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Interior on the internal control system, the integrity consultant and the other regulations on public administration and local government. The law to be adopted is systematically developed in seven parts and overall in sixty-two articles, the first thirty of which, but also in Part Four, refer to internal control and the integrity adviser. Therefore, the introductory article defines as the objective of the legislation the uniform regulation of matters for the implementation of these institutions with a view to strengthening the mechanisms for accountability and integrity to public bodies. Article 2 defines the scope which, in essence, extends throughout the public sector, while Article 3 sets out key conditions for the functioning of internal audit in line with internationally applicable rules. Internal audit is, therefore, the independent advisory and reassurance service, designed to improve the functions of the institution by assessing and upgrading risk management procedures and governance systems. Part One's second chapter refers to the internal control system, designed to provide reasonable assurance about the effectiveness of the organisation's operational functions, the reliability of economic and other reports and compliance with the regulatory framework, its structural elements, i.e. the governance system and the functioning of the audit and, thirdly, its structure in the roles and responsibilities of the institutions. The internal control system is structured in three lines of role. The first shall include the organic units and the total staff. The second, the organic units and the mono-personal or collective bodies and the third, the internal control unit, which controls the first two to assure the administration that the mechanisms of the system operate adequately and effectively. The third chapter refers to the functioning of the internal audit, which, in accordance with Article 7, is independent and is ensured by the establishment of the unit directly to the head of the audit body, as well as by the establishment of the audit committee. There has been a lot of talk about this, but I think it is inappropriate, since the independence of the unit, which is guaranteed by the fact that the internal auditors are not involved in the administration, do not have operational tasks and, above all, by the guarantee role of the Committee on Audit under Article 8, which supervises the work of the unit, ensures the quality of its work and guarantees that its recommendations are taken into account by the head of the body. The Audit Committee is an innovative, independent body made up of three members, one with auditing experience from other bodies and having no reliance on work with the audited body. Therefore, no further safeguard would provide the plant with any other form of service. The strongest guarantee, however, for the performance of its work is the detailed and very important tasks assigned to it by the law and which one might find difficult to ignore. The fourth chapter refers to the establishment, organisation and staffing of the Office, the Ministries at management level and the other bodies according to their structure, the bodies referred to in Article 2, the independent authorities and the LAGs with the criteria for the number of officials and the amount of the budget. Now, when some bodies are unable to set up a separate unit, they can set up a common unit. Where necessary, professionals outside the body may be required to be assisted, otherwise the body may be subject to the internal control unit of the supervised body. In exceptional cases it may be given as a whole to an external partner. "You're getting private," some people told us. "Nothing new. This shall already apply to the part of the accounting support of structures and services.’ The other arrangements referred to in Article 9 shall specify in detail the approval obligations of the head of the body, broad responsibilities for the head of the inspection unit shall be laid down and that its members, with the task of a verifier, shall be required within 12 months to obtain a certificate of proficiency, unless they have one corresponding. It is also foreseen that the National Centre for Public Administration and Administration organises a specific control programme for the certification of already staff and new auditors. In addition, the operational objectives and responsibilities of the inspection unit shall be detailed. In fact, each is aware of the scope and importance of its role, but also of the important prospects for the public to be upgraded by its operation. In addition, Articles 11 and 12 refer to the unit’s operating rules and the Code of Conduct for Internal Auditors according to international standards. Article 13 refers to the obligation of the Head of Unit to submit an annual report to the Head of Bodies and the Audit Committee, which is also notified to the Court of Auditors, the National Transparency Authority and the Ministry of Finance, especially for Grade 1 and Municipal Council. It shall also provide an opinion on the adequacy of governance structures and systems and risk management in the form of assurance, positive, negative or unconditional. In addition, the fifth chapter provides for the preparation of the annual work programme, project stages, monitoring the implementation of internal audit recommendations, the annual quality assessment and improvement programme of the organisation, the uninterrupted access of internal auditors to all elements, records and sites of the audited unit, the definition of experts where necessary, the examination of cases of fraud in the broadest sense of corruption, which, where appropriate, will be subject to their awareness. The sixth chapter refers to as bodies responsible for coordinating, monitoring and evaluating the functioning of internal audit units, the National Transparency Authority again, the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, and their responsibilities are defined in this context. Ladies and gentlemen, I have chosen the detailed reference to the provisions of Part One, to clearly render the fullness of the new institutional framework which has all the elements necessary to defend the public interest against corruption and to contribute decisively to the upgrading of services to the citizen. At the same time, I chose it to show how long the objections of the parties that voted against this draft law are, even at the outset, and it is obvious that systematic work, the grid of forecasts, the coherent sequence of procedures and the multiple audit stages that make the expectation that the objectives will be met and that some of the pathogens, which we have all agreed in the debate in the committee, which characterise the public sector, will be addressed. Similarly, however, important and innovative is the institution of the integrity adviser who is developing in the second part of the bill. The integrity consultant is an institution that is first introduced into our country, but has international experience and acceptance. He shall be a partner of the employees with a role of supportive, informative and advisory. It aims to deal with incidents of intimidation, morality and sexual harassment of officials, but also conflicts of interest. It shall exercise mediation or refer such incidents to the competent audit bodies or disciplinary bodies as it does not exercise disciplinary control. It also cooperates with the administration and internal audit unit and makes proposals to improve mechanisms to prevent and prevent breaches of integrity. The law provides for the establishment of a register of integrity advisers, in which all civil servants, permanent and private law of indefinite duration, who are qualified and certified - again - by the National Centre for Public Administration and Government. In order to cover, moreover, the position of an integrity adviser is subject to strict limitations and a deduction even in the event of the criminal prosecution being exercised against them for specific offences. Advisers shall be selected following an invitation from the National Transparency Authority with evaluation criteria incorporated in it by a three-member committee. This is therefore an institution for the support of employees, the dismantling of the working environment and the prevention of discrimination. It is therefore unexplainable, once again, that the opposition parties' refusal and effort to take advantage of this innovative institution. In the Committee and the other provisions of the draft law, extensive mention was made of issues in administration and local government. For example, I take note of Article 34, which allows officials elected to be transferred or seconded to the nearest service of the place where they were elected, even if they are in a border area, in order to serve their elected officials. I also note Articles 39 and 40 on dealing with crimes against sexual freedom and life, Article 42 on regulating the issue of personal differences for municipal police officers, Articles 49 and 51 on providing management flexibility for OTAs for their orderly operation and on addressing needs due to the pandemic, Article 50 on the utilization of donations to earthquakes and Article 52 on the exception of examinations for nationals of those who have completed Greek school or university, in order to answer the relevant question raised by the Greek Solution. The objections of counter-population, in particular of the Officer, were identified in Article 38, which confers responsibilities on the economic committees of municipalities and regions for the governance of TBRs, in Article 48 enabling engineers and TBIs working under a fixed-term private-law contract to sign documents of their competence, for which, in fact, the TBR spokesman told us that it should be extended to all other specialities. Finally, the objections were identified in Article 54, to appoint a member of an independent authority to a position of higher grade for full term, a question on which the objection of anti-constitutionality has just been tabled, which we will then discuss. Now, several comments have been made during the consultation, several of which have been incorporated into the draft law, while the bodies have submitted comments and suggestions. It should be noted, however, that as a whole they welcomed the introduction of the new institutions. The objections, as predicted, of counter-population proved unfounded and pretextful. The vote on the principle of a draft law aimed at strengthening administrations and workers in public bodies, and finally improving services to the citizen, saving resources for the taxpayer and combating corruption, and even by parties claiming to defend the public sector, is an opposition to progress. In the midst of the procedure, the question arose of the removal of restrictions on the exercise of the electoral right of foreign residents. Unfortunately, for the Civic Opposition, it cannot change its positions according to the audience to which abundant drinks are addressed. So we will soon discuss a new proposal for a law on the subject. Our Government continues its work in the light of the needs of the citizens and its allies in society. We are voting in favour of the draft law and ministerial amendments. Thank you, Minister, and your colleagues for excellent cooperation and the representatives of the parties for a decent procedure. I would like the dialogue to be more creative to bring positive results in the field of public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u68	Thank you too, Mr Constantinidis, for keeping time. Since all the rapporteurs and special speakers are here, the opposition to unconstitutionalism will be discussed at the end of the rapporteurs and special speakers, as usual. I think, because it's also an article, you'll have all the time to get ready. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the next rapporteur, Mr Hatzigiannakis, from SYRIZA, I should like to make two announcements to this House. The Ministers for the Interior, Finance and Foreign Affairs, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Foreign Affairs and Home Affairs, submitted a draft law on 12-2021: "Exercise restrictions on enrolment in the special electoral lists of foreign voters". Also, the Ministers for Economic, Development and Investment, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Rural Development and Food, State, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign, Interior and State Secretary for Civil Protection submitted a draft law on 12-24-2021: "State aid to businesses and non-profit-making bodies for natural disasters, urgent economic support arrangements, supplementary state budget and pension regulation". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Mr. Hatzyannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the truth is that in plenary we had the pleasure of the Minister many times to give us lessons of legal and political science. But I would like to start my speech today with two questions. First of all, do we really have a committee tomorrow? Is it within twelve o'clock, as you had announced, for the vote on the revenues, announced to us by the President just now? Is the procedure that you announced to us when we finished the committee? I ask that we know what is going on, because we know things if it will be discussed now, whether it will be discussed after Easter. To know. You're gonna tell us, of course. I'm not saying you won't tell us. My second question is this: do you really have any interest in the internal audit procedure? I, to tell you the truth, from all the discussions and because I know what internal control means, do not even question what you have told us. I do not really question it, in other words, that the officials wrote it, that you found it ready, that the people of the Ministry were the authors. I am not saying that you have put your hand in particular in the specific thirty-six articles that came for consultation at the beginning, not in the bill, as it has been tabled, not in the bill with the number of amendments. It is a total of twenty-two articles with too many amendments that we have today to vote on. The thirty-six articles that came in connection with the description of internal control have problems, which have also been raised by the institutions, but it is actually an object and it is not only the main object, what you say, Minister, and I am really questioning from the Step that if you are interested in internal control. There was, of course, a misunderstanding about what internal control is all about. However, this misunderstanding is not due to colleagues or to bodies alone, because we have also read publications from very authoritative newspapers, which have confused the internal control you are coming to us today, although it has been legislated - and, anyway, to put him on a new basis - by replacing the Court of Auditors' preventive control. We know and do well to clarify it. That is why I am saying that I am not questioning that at least the first part of the law was not your intervention, but it was the service, as you said, but we are not really talking about it alone. As I said, thirty-six articles at first, what I imagine to be the service. That's what you were talking about. We have sixty-five today. Geometrically they have increased by eighty and by the end of the meeting we do not know - great is the Lord - we will see how much it will have. These are indeed the "golden" days of the right legacy that you have used to us. You have, of course, answered us in advance. You've caught up with us. You have told us that everything is done within Parliament's Rules of Procedure and the procedures and deadlines it lays down. However, this does not mean that it is also a good piece of legislation. Otherwise, we would accuse you of violating the Rules of Procedure. We do not blame you for this, except for Rule 54, which we will then develop - I shall not mention at all here - on the objection of unconstitutionalism which we have tabled and the opinion of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. As if not all of this were enough, i.e. the famous legacy that you are now used to us, you started the effort - unpopular I would describe it - to drag SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance in your positions and in the communal distortion that you are trying to achieve on the issue of the vote on the results. I am not going to go into any further, because I am going to blame today's bill, but the same thing, because we will be able to develop it properly in committee and in plenary. But, really if we do discuss it tomorrow, - I want your answer - why so much importance? We are talking today about a bill of your competence and while we are discussing it, you bring it together on a temporary basis, you enter it the day before yesterday, to make noise and achieve what? What harm would we have had to discuss next Monday or after Easter a bill that has not even been implemented? May I dare explain? As I said at the outset, you are not interested in today's debate or today's bill. It's vagina. What do you think you're doin'? The primary concern, like all the government, is to change the agenda according to its bench, obviously being helped by many systemic media that love you so much, of course, with the indebtedness of course. And because in the last two months, the sweater has been spreading out dangerously with the proverbial government incompetence both in the management of the pandemic and all the recurring and appalling recessions, which, unfortunately, will continue all over 2021, with Lignade, police violence, rain of over-confident and non-direct affiliations, with the murder of journalists daily in noon with mafia methods, and because all this and more is happening, you are also trying to make a communication counterattack, unfortunately, by shooting in the air. I don't want to waste any more time on this, and I'm going through the bill. I told you that for internal control obviously him as such, with the improvements that the first articles should have had, SYRIZA was not only in favour, but also with the creation of a branch-level position in all the ministries. We started it. We couldn't say we were against it. However, instead of stepping on already implemented policies and experiences, on the basis of the legislative framework that existed, and also the examples of abroad, you chose to create distortions and more bureaucracy and obviously to open up - because there is also our great objection to the first part of the bill - your favorite door to private individuals. You opened the door to individuals on such a serious matter of internal control. And what did you answer to the committee? That he wants four other conditions to be awarded to a private person. Guess - I am making a guess now that we are all together - how many bodies, especially younger, will resort to and find reasoned opinions on the fact that they cannot provide the specific control services and, by magic, will appear in internal control companies, which will mainly control local authorities - where I have experience and knowledge - but also other cases of legal entities governed by public law, as they should have. In addition to the Committee on Audit and the Institution of Intellectual Property, there is nothing new in the legal and administrative reality of the Greek public administration. From what the institutions have said to us here - and in fact a number of detailed statements which have given us, but also oral ones, have developed to us - you are not able to regulate matters relating to the functioning of the internal control system and the units in all the bodies of the general government in a uniform way. You are not dealing with the problem of multiple control mechanisms, so there are often conflicting and overlapping cases of control objects and regulations. You do not guarantee transparency, dignity, especially at the level of staffing internal control units, nor at the head of staff and in the process of selecting the integrity adviser. Of course, within Article 9, as I have said before, you leave the window open for private choice and the assignment to private persons of internal control services. That's not what we talked about. This was said by most of the institutions that were called. A very simple question was tabled by the ADED representative. Given the enormous shortages of staff in all services, how will internal control services be provided by already serving officials and how will they be exempted from their other tasks to serve these control mechanisms? Is it not, therefore, fatal that private people will enter, because we know very well that the public is being subordinated - most public bodies - and if you get employees who are already in office, there will be a very large gap across all agencies and so fate will come private ones? And to extend the question, on the basis of the reasoning of the President of the Pan-Hellenic Economic Inspectors Association, what will be the total cost of such a choice for the public, given the many procedures that are obviously under control by internal audit? Have there been any relevant studies or assessments? So, pending the replies, I shall also refer to the rest, very little as the majority colleague said - unfortunately, it is not too little, it is the majority of the articles in this bill - provisions, first and foremost, what he said - Article 38 and the responsibilities of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Gentlemen of the Government, continue and legislate in breach of the Constitution and the European Charter of Local Autocracy. Keep going! You have made the municipal councils decorative and you also come with the amendment on development agencies and you give this competence, that is, a responsibility to set up a new public limited liability company. You take it from the municipal council - which, Minister, you have told us that you have given us only considerable responsibilities, the basics have been kept by the municipal council, that's what you told us in committee - and now each municipality can recommend whether or not it is its own legal person, its own new public limited company - and therefore enters equity costs - either with another body, a public body or local government, and that will now do so by decision of an economic committee! The city council will make the wheelchair! I say to you, we are thinking about it, of telling you the truth, of imposing by law the meeting of municipal councils only twice a year, once a semester, of collecting people there, of having a buffet which will be paid, of having a celebration, on 25 March and on 28 October, and of rejoice all together that their people have chosen them, but the government has chosen not to give them any responsibility at all. Furthermore, the specific provision that you have brought with the amendment - the funnyness of the legislature - is in direct contrast with the article you have brought in this bill. You have brought an article on development agencies and you say in means that decisions will be taken by the city council! You are going with your amendment to the same bill and you are undoing it. The city council will no longer take them. The Economic Commission will take them. Well done, that's a very good legalization! I would also like to make a reference to Rule 52, which was not wrongly mentioned in the committee, but we will be raising it here. I am talking about your own law that you brought back a few months ago, about the process of naturalising Greek citizens and obtaining citizenship. It will no longer be enough to monitor the three classes of high school or high school in Article 52. All six classes, or nine grades of primary and high school, need to be monitored. It is therefore a clear tightening of the current provision. That is very clear and I think it appears. And I would like to ask you why there are not three years of successful follow-up in Greek secondary education or the certificate of Greek names. What exactly does the government doubt? The Greek education system or the adequacy of state certificates of Greek names? We believe that by this arrangement you are continuing to put excessive obstacles on people living in our society who are fully integrated into our society. I told you about S.H.I.E.L.D. I told you we'd speak in detail. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. As far as the amendments are concerned, we are in agreement with some. Most of us, as I told you before, are against. The question of the provision for lawyers - self-government mayor is correct. I think that there was a mistake by the President. I say this because it happens and today you are chairing my speech. I don't think it was on purpose at that time. I think it had been done by a bad understanding of these ministries. Whilst the coma had been removed, that is, the incompatibilities of the mayors - which were not correct, in my view - to exercising their profession, the Code of Law came after a few months and only for lawyers - obviously not on purpose - and I think you are right to bring this amendment, which was, in fact, a distortion. All mayors could practice their profession, except for lawyers. It wasn't right. So that's right, that's what you're bringing today. Of course, as you've brought it, I think it's not just...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u70	It was then proposed, if you remember, by the lawyers, by the plenary and by the committee after all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u71	Yeah, I know, but I think it was a distortion of the lawmaker's will, so it's right to come and correct it. To close - just for one minute - without making my comments to the committee, on the issue of Antonis Tritsis, on which the board of directors of the Central Association of Municipalities is currently meeting. It takes serious improvements to the joint ministerial decision. It has created terrible problems and distortions and injustices among the municipalities. The counties in the province no longer know what to do. They have already prepared - obviously, after closing the programme on April 30th, they knew it because they had declared it, even if it had not been officially done by the Minister - a multitude of files and now they understand that they are coming out because the programme with the "PHILIMO" is cleared up. In the "PHILADIMO" region, mainly the municipalities of the region, were involved, because that was his philosophy and for reasons of justice, but above all for development reasons, and for an additional reason that the KHS does not solve him, and the Minister must solve him: the provincial municipalities - we said in committee - have the responsibility of watering and sewerage, which means that the projects are made either by the municipalities or by the JHA and are part of this programme. The municipalities of Attica and Thessaloniki do not have such competence. So it must either be excluded from the plaques and those works in place unless there is a justice, or the province's municipalities must adjust the plaques. And there are many distortions with the categorisations of the municipalities. Municipal capitals take too much. The Messolonghi do you know she's making twice as much money from Agrinio? The Municipality of Mesology as a capital, smaller than the Municipality of Agrinio, takes more money than "PHILADIMO", almost twice. There are such distortions throughout Greece and the Deputy Minister must see them. I am sure the CEDEFOP will put them to him today. And we have proposals on this, not only are we criticised, because our objective, as I have said in committee, is really to be a continuation of the 'Philodime' and a development tool at such a difficult time for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u72	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Until the seat is fired, I will announce to you the result of the vote on the waiver of immunity. [[After REMUNERATION]] PRESIDENT. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: A total of 206 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 183 Members voted. Against the abolition of immunity, i.e. 'NO', they voted 23. 'PARON' voted, no one. The request for a public Prosecutor was therefore accepted by a majority. The result of the roll-call vote will appear on the screens of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u73	We are now continuing with the next rapporteur, Mrs Evangelia Lykolis, from the Change Movement. Here you go, Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what can we start together, Minister? You don't leave us alone, and you keep putting us on adventures all the time. Now you've started a new expatriate story. I will say why you are so tired, innocent no one is in this Chamber, except for our resignation, which, from the outset, said this and this reform, we have brought it. So our good morning's in them. But, before we can say these and the others, you come with a KYA and torture the mayors and municipalities and municipal authorities, you "strangle" self-government and put it on the plaster, as if what did it do to you? And you don't make it hostage to a bad state, a bad government and everything, you want it there, under the 'bottom' of the Minister himself. He said the Minister would pass, the Minister didn't say, he wouldn't pass. Is that correct? Oh, no. Fair enough? Oh, no. Democrat? No relation to democracy. Get that back! You have brought with this KYA between "Philodimou" and "Antonis Tritsis". Neither do you honor him nor the other you want to mention him at all. I think you should see this personally, Minister, and you should intervene in this. Talk to the mayors! We online that we're doing seeing the anger out of hand right now and I don't think you're the man who wants to raise the rage. Now, with regard to our present day, look, the whole story with the particular legislation you bring us looks like a quiz, a quiz that we are obliged to resolve, seeing the Minister's face in it, because the Minister of Government said four months ago in this House, and in particular on 11 January 2021, there are also these Minutes, word they do not leave - for your new post. So you said, Minister: 'I will never table amendments without having informed the committee that I will also be able to table these amendments in this House'. At least Theodorikos didn't say that. But you said so. You said one more thing two days ago in the House, though. You said: 'When an amendment is tabled, it is in Members' knowledge and no problem arises for Members. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he would like to make a statement on this matter. Apart from the fact that our problem is that we are mandated to say it for ourselves and for our resignation - you will not be interpreting it to us, I do not think you can interpret us well - in the amendments that we are counting, Minister, a mere statistical quotation of numbers clearly contradicts you. You have brought the matter of competence of the Ministry of Interior with nine and not six regulations, also an absolutely irrelevant amendment of the Ministry of Culture, also an unrelated amendment to the issues of your Ministry of Culture seven more brand-new articles, yet another amendment with a set of twenty-two, sixty-two regulations now climb to eighty-four. In order not to multilingualize, thirty-four of these articles only brought to consultation and fifty - the arithmetics say - you did not. I will also invoke democracy if that is what you consider to be a condition of democracy in consultation. Only you know that. You are also the Minister who, on 11 January 2021, said that you did not surprise the House that you did not like surprises. I like you to consent now and do 'yes'. You don't like surprises, but are you looking in your mirror, Minister? I don't mean the natural mirror, I find you, your political mirror, I mean, the politician. Do you recognize yourself, really? And I mean what I'm saying to you, because you brought just the day before yesterday, with a lot of noise and a lot of noise - you actually monopolized the press - out of programming the subject of the vote again from the Greek Democratic Republic. Welcome, validate the position of the Change Movement, and you're entitled to us. You know that, you're consenting again. So from the outset in the debate on this original coward of your bill - look out, we read behind words, I will say it and then - we said that this story is going to happen. You probably can't register on the electoral lists. You see these cutters were a lot of things and the population doesn't come to sign. That's why you're going to save the lot now, not that your pain has caught you. Don't say that! The hidden numbers of how many people signed or not you only know them. It is one thing like 'grek statistics'. Only you know that, the governments of the New Democracy. So you, as a great regularist, saw the opportunity window opened to you by the ambiguous and contradictory attitude of the SYRIZA and you are rightly taking advantage of it. Indeed, you brought the Civic Opposition into a very difficult position, you nailed it, with the back on the wall is SYRIZA right now. Your work strategically, at least I recognize it from my side. All of you excited about political victory, and I see Members coming and saying 'Bravo, Vorides!'. And that's something that a politician of your class is right. However, tomorrow's regulation on the vote of the Greeks off the Greek border, I would remind you that it requires two hundred of the three hundred Members of Parliament. Therefore, it requires consent of many parties, including SYRIZA, or your mathematics will not come out. So because there is a lot of consensuality, and you told us correctly the day before yesterday that I am not in favour of consensus, do not paraphrase, I say that I am taking the order from the Greek people to make my policy, that order you have taken from the Greek people. So, what's going to happen here? Tactically and strategically, how will you "swirl" SYRIZA in the House with a specific strategy on the issue of the vote of the impoverished? I do not know these "tactical" and "strategic". You know them better. But, Mr Voridis, since you say that you are not in favour of consensus, do you bring this up for what, really? Because since at least a "grandmaster" regularist or is silent or plays "katenacio" or keeps the ball down, in any case, a few words, stars until he finds a good chance. So now, what's going to happen? And if you unleash SYRIZA, then the abstainees with what eyes to look at them again? So turn them and leave the substance. However, one more great truth is that, with disappointment, the people are not only following your strategy, but are following the Civic Opposition, a fact that describes themselves as "progressive" and "left" and leaves a voiceless voice to the citizen who, with the elementary intelligence of the average prudent man, asks why, gentlemen of the Officerial Opposition, SYRIZA, you put 'cutters' in the vote of the aberrations? Why? Explain it! Shouldn't you take the Step and explain it? Why is a progressive fact that is supposedly being cut over by democracy, by mere analogy, and is making all this fuss about the 'Rooms' and 'colonial' of democracy, not doing the self-evident thing? Why not want the one who can take the plane and come to Greece to vote to rejoin home and keep his contact? So why so much "bullying" to Mrs Jackson? What did the honourable Member say about this time, and today, I think, is she in SYRIZA? Not only will we give, said Mrs Jackson, the battle to lift restrictions, we will abolish them as soon as we return to the rule of the country, because they are unfair and disgraceful. And I don't have any words to describe them, said Mrs. Jack. In addition to her well-known personal path, Mrs. Jackri, with what she means to my eyes in terms of values, principles and consistency and all these fine letters in any case, she is responsible for SYRIZA's partisan for Depopulation. Serious title, I imagine, depending on Mrs. Jackie's gravity. And all interested parties on SYRIZA rushed to talk about this issue for unfortunate statements and for a regulator's gamble, obviously swept away from acquired speed, because he said it unequivocally. He was telling the truth, no unfortunate statement he didn't make. "No cutter and no restriction," he said. Now you're looking for words and who's behind words. We all know who's behind the words, it's the song. And even when you find him, you get a melancholy. In other words, as far as the arithmetics are concerned, my Minister, who does not want you to admit it, strategically, I rightly said, but the figures do not come out. In our view - and this is why we are tabling this in Parliament's plenary - it is a disgraceful attitude rather than a value to the migrants. In tomorrow, however, the important thing in the committee responsible, where we will say the rest. And I now come to the bill on the historical control of public units and the fight against corruption in the public sector. From titles and verbalism, no one gets you, no precedent! A legislative slap on the one hand - I said before your amendments - while, of course, you have an audited auditor and a auditor who is both audited and audited. As we have said in the committees, you are not making the slightest effort to correct mistakes of the past. Unfortunately, despite the fact that similar laws on the internal control of public administration have entered the timeframe of history with legislative verbatimism and unprecedented legislative inflation, you are doing nothing today to correct it. Unfortunately, we have the integrity in the public sector to gain a vague character, a retraining concept which in fact means nothing. However, integrity is a prerequisite for better public services and greater citizens' confidence in the state and institutions. Do citizens trust you to build such an institution? Here's the question, simple and very nice. You've been ruling for two years already. You come and bring us a bill against corruption, you give us dozens of papers, but you say more you do. Direct awards, by way of derogation, of provisions, undivided, vertical increase in transferees, positions of "day-to-day" lists in SMEs. You say: 'Strengthening a strict framework for the internal control of public administration', when you have left nothing, you have passed it all, and you have done it in two years! And the one who listens to you says that once again "one hole in the water" or the most suspicious people say "true, will the companies go in again"? Because there won't be any employees. How will there be any employees? They're not good enough for you! Thousands of employees! You have about seven hundred operators based on the 2019 census, because you weren't allowed to do until 2021. So, to these bodies, how do you put integrity advisers? Where are you going to find them? How are you going to do the internal audit committees? All this staff? You have not brought us any evidence, despite the fact that we have asked you persistently to do so, neither for the logistics of this story nor for the figures - that is, how much it costs Greece what you are going to do - nor, of course, for the way in which the civil servants will participate in them through a service in which you do not have additional qualifications. And here I'm sorry for the people who did the job behind the minister's "curtain" but you are completely uprooted the English terminology and transported it in a way that won't even accept Google translate. You didn't even do that right! You're bringing in a framework of internal control and distribution, indiscriminate anyway, Greek, which you probably only understand. I say, are we in a parallel universe? We have seen the "attack" of individuals in the state, as we have seen your "attack", of your own government with the "scole-score" to train, is supposed, in the first quarantine of the country's scientists, that "vaterlo"! We also saw it in February in Larissa, in my constituency, where you visited the university hospital and then you talked about the individuals who have to enter hospitals. Then we were taken by the big boreau and the pandemic the train and you took all this back in one night. And the ESS and the ESS, our ESS! You came and sat back on the back of a great reformist progressive institution! And you did well! Because our institutions and the reforms in our country are making them for our citizens and for our democracy and for our country. That's why we make them! We don't make them to keep them in our own story! What do you do, though? Or should I say about the other things we have seen this year, that is to say, you should make matters for the citizenship bank, some of which, as I imagine, you could not answer them properly, Mr Minister. I'm sorry, I'm not underestimating anyone, but I'm going to confess from the Stepping of the House that I'm messing it up with the hollows! You may know all the "hells", Mr. Voridis! So you put private care providers to the people who want to take the nationality of Greece and run at the "feast" of private individuals once again. You made them stand out the identical "guns" of the fire-fighting, police, Navy and Air Force, who so much resemble both of them or the importance of the "fanny pie" to take citizenship. The importance of "Piece-of-the-art"! And we must be proud of these things and the way in which your Government acts, outrageous and funny together! There is'surrealism', I say, political'surrealism'! At some point we can talk about this in committee too. I think we will be given a chance to do this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying this: in the institutions such as the symbol of integrity, you are setting up high and low! You do the same in internal control units. Neither how much did you tell us, where you will find the staff, nor the way in which you will secure the guarantees of operation and integrity, when I will be the one to examine my next employee - friend in the office, with which I am fifteen years together! And who am I going to talk to, of course? To you! To the Minister of 'My'! The official 'you' will come to apologise. And you want to tell the Greek people that this is a conquest of democracy! To conclude, I say: it has become a very big predator for the issue of SAAP and for the notorious Article 54. We have no obsession with this. In any case, you know very well that our position is opposition. Nevertheless, we are 'the guardians', as we have often said from this Step, democratic institutions which we have even created with our minds, with our inspiration, with our democratic 'plate'. And we kept these reforms in our hand, despite the difficult times. In Rule 54, therefore, unfortunately, you are breaking open doors. You're getting drunk with presidents and members of your choice, you're extending terms and you're showing that you don't believe in anything at all, Minister, in consensual arrangements. Only the photo you didn't bring us to this article to see it and to have it. But we know her as she was published everywhere. And you have it, I hope not in your wallet, so dear. But you are now opening a ferry to the AAP - which is why it hurts us - on the crown, on the flagship of independent institutions. That is why we are also calling for a large 'no' on this subject. Finally, with the hand you once again put into self-government - "my old-art sieve" - you have done so - remove in the name of pandemic responsibilities from the councils, municipal and regional and take the responsibilities back to the Economic Committees, Minister. You're talking about the famous solvent "KLITHENI" - I'm with you in what he allegedly used the simple analogue to make more democracy in Greece. You didn't want any more democracy. Your beans were counting for you. But you, on the other hand, came in an anti-democratic way to drip the municipal and regional councils and put them on the plaster. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In one way or another, once you have a ball of institutions between you two, once you have a ball of emigrants, the other you do the civil servants, the other you do the self-government, sometimes the workers, sometimes the small and medium-sized ones, sometimes the farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u75	Mrs. Litikoli, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u76	I shall conclude, Mr President. All citizens show tolerance and patience. The juncture is pleading. But there are times when people will decide, because you know, always, citizens judge, compare and evaluate. We are sure that by handing you to their judgment, only confirmation of our democratic party and ideas will come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, too. The reason is the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Syntrakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. This legislation on the internal control system for the public sector and the Integrity Adviser in public administration is a memorandum of urgency, prerequisite for the new cycle of evaluation carried out by the European Union. That is why the construction of internal control procedures is also pressing for it to be implemented. And all this, in the pretext of transparency! Whenever it wants to cover up, hide or disorientate the government in its legislation, it highlights the need for transparency, good administration, effective administration. In reality, however, it adds another reactionary reform within the framework of the bourgeois state in order to adapt the public sector and public administration to the modern needs of capital and to serve it in a period of capitalist crisis. The effort to adapt public administration and the public sector to the specific circumstances of the urban state is not something new. All previous governments of at least the last decade, with New Democracy, New Democracy - PASOK, SYRIZA - ANEL, now again New Democracy, have left all their prints. And SYRIZA with the laws of Katrugalo and Vernardakis left the program "Reform of the Public Sector 2014-2020" intact under the Minister of State Mitsotakis, the current Prime Minister, at the Ministry of Interior. So we're not really talking about anything new. Besides, on the specific subject we are discussing, Law 4270/2014, which incorporates a European directive, lays down an obligation for the entire public sector and for the establishment of an internal audit service. It is a law based on an earlier law in 2006. So both the New Democracy as government and SYRIZA and the Change Movement that everyone has played in signing memorials must stop playing innocent pigeons, defenders of transparency and honesty. The reality of workers living is the undisputed witness that despite the existence of several internal and external control mechanisms and procedures in public bodies - who should first be the Court of Auditors, ASA, Ministry of Finance, Citizens' Counselor, Decentralised Administration for Local Government and so on. - the problems not only have not been solved, but have increased and often been covered, but only so that the essential aspects of the operation of each body, its objectives and objectives are not revealed. The examples are many. What to start with? Shall we start from the hospitals in the country and primary health care with the major shortages in staff and infrastructure, which resulted in the weakness of the public health system, despite the heroic efforts of health care, to cope with the increased health needs of the people by the killing virus? To talk about the conversion of hospitals into hospitals of a disease and the suffocation suffered by the huge waiting lists, even of serious incidents, which are delayed precisely because they have been converted into hospitals of a disease? Similarly, it is the case in education and teachers at all levels, in local and regional administration workers who respond despite their declining status, and others because of retirement. Not only did all governments take care of the replacement of this potential with permanent jobs and the level of increasing needs, but they eventually expanded the flexible working relationships and those who left them extra unresponsive tasks and obligations that are literally neutralizing them, while at the same time breaking up all these control mechanisms, the Public Service Code, evaluation, the chief, the mayor, the district manager and he goes on to say. So the government is trying to cure the vulnerabilities of public administration with outdated materials and much more when the policies of all urban parties have built up a public sector that is cut and sewn to the needs of the market economy, with cost criteria - benefiting from ensuring the profitability and competitiveness of monopolies and not for people's needs. Who, then, are they who determine the criteria? Are they not determined by general government policy, by the European Union's general anti-popular strategy? An anti-French policy can only set state administration targets when, for example, it cuts health expenditure by EUR 600,000 for 2021 in the middle of urgent health needs, when it does not hire health, it does not have equipment and infrastructure. At that time, the evaluation and efficiency of health care staff will be judged by overtime, shortages in the media, intensification or mainly by how hard they are trying to operate public hospitals, despite their availability and heroic efforts to help patients. On this basis, then, the internal control will be structured and operated. But it is even more challenging and underestimates the workers' intelligence, when it is said that functional independence is guaranteed by the organisation of the internal control unit directly to the head of the institution, and that the so-called Control Committee will act as an independent body, because the members of the committee will, he says, come from other bodies! The head of each body, however, will have full control, complete control. The provision in Article 9 is clear. The head of each body approves everything. Approves the rules of operation of the internal audit unit, the internal audit manual, the annual work programme of the unit, issues internal audit orders and goes by saying. He can even assign an external partner to set up an internal control unit. The internal control mechanism, which is now being structured and legislated, therefore, comes as a natural follow-up to structured suffocating budgetary control, aiming, in addition to the necessary implementation of the budgetary objectives, the integration of workers, services, the collective bodies of the local administration, a strategy for interconnecting its functions with businesses and the priorities of the business groups. And in that direction, all this fat billion from the Recovery Fund, which will be directed precisely at these priorities of capital. As far as the so-called integrity advisor is concerned, I will say that civil servants have a bitter experience of post-call officials, because they will be, in order to trust them with their atrocities. In addition, they live on a daily basis in their minds the adequacy and promotion of the "days" in positions of responsibility and in general. Therefore, what will an integrity consultant add to the public administration? They will prevent distortions, corruption, discrimination, anxieties, injustices. That's what you're saying. And why, to date, not all these control mechanisms have been solved, the hierarchy in public administration, your governments, officials, etc.Huh? But the system itself, the legal and institutional framework for the functioning of the public administration and its mission, are the policies that are being pursued which are precisely such phenomena and which are a brake on their elimination. He'll have the presumption of trust, you tell us. What will "confidentiality" say? Can everyone, in addition to complaints of harassment or irregularities, rattle, if they trade, the political beliefs of their colleague? And how will all this be evaluated? From where and until where is a posted consultant considered a priori reliable? Something's wrong. I told you last time, it reminds us of other things, something with military security addresses. Of course! Public services and civil servants do not need, Minister, the establishment of such systems of control and counsellors of integrity, but from mass recruitment, from mass permanent appointments to fill gaps, from choices and crises with objective and measurable criteria, from the immunisation of the public health system, from the live operation of schools with additional teachers, through a reduction in the number of pupils per department, from the operation of services with respect to daily people's needs. The provisions of the first thirty articles in a total of sixty-two, which are all the bill concerning the internal control system and unit, as well as the integrity consultant, our party will vote against them as a whole. All these days of discussion in the committee we have witnessed a meaningless, meaningless controversy, with a lot of hypocrisy between the New Democracy and SYRIZA. Close, of course the Movement of Change, so that the game doesn't lose, that's what's inside. Hypocrisy, why? For while both SYRIZA and the Change Movement agree with the provisions on the internal control system and the integrity consultant, which is also the contested bill and, of course, a Memorandum of Understanding, they nevertheless make a desperate attempt to overshadow their own "yes" with a "no". On what criterion? In fact, a photographic provision of Article 54 on the AACC, which is a direct intervention of the New Democracy, attempting to put a person of his choice in the position of his President. This is, of course, an unacceptable photographic provision and they are asking for it to be withdrawn. Now, however, they seem astonished for ASAP, an ASA where the government violates the sacred and loyal principles of the independent authorities when we, as a Communist Party of Greece, never had such delusions. On the contrary, we were even saying, in the last law that came to ASEAN, that this ASEAN is surrounded by the halo of the independent authority by all and by New Democracy and by SYRIZA and by the Change Movement - PASOK, because such an approach has facilitated and facilitated all governments over time. So the so-called independent authorities are deeply dependent, serve the public administration, which is a tool for supporting the competitiveness and efficiency of the capitalist economy. That is why the Pissaridis report also lists the ADP as a key lever in the priorities of capitalist development. We, of course, when we criticise the changes and the functioning of the public administration, do not defend the public sector that exists today, nor close our eyes to existing phenomena, nor do we care about the necessary operational modernisations relating to the people's needs, nor do we ignore, of course, the heroic, often, efforts of workers who are in contact with the people, who of course do not identify themselves with the anti-grassy nature and the mission of the urban state, for which we do not have the slightest, but the slightest delusion. What we want to defend is their dignity at work, their rights and their obligations, which stem from this dignity. With the bill you are promoting, you do not have the objective of satisfying the widespread people's needs, of providing quality social services. Besides, your overall policy every day has broken all this. Allow me to say a few words about the other provisions. It concerns the other thirty articles of the draft law. Obviously, I won't deal with the thirty. We don't have time. I will, however, look at some of the points that we think are particularly important. It concerns Article 35, arrangements for the legal support of civil servants and representatives of local government. It is already known that we have tabled an amendment to that effect. This article of the draft law does not address two serious issues, in our view. That is why we are tabling this amendment. Article 52 of Law No.4674/2020, as amended and valid, provides for the legal support of officials and officials with regard to the private law of indefinite duration of the Ministries, the independent authorities, the decentralised administrations of the State, OTAs I and B grades and legal persons of public law. Such legal support is also provided to local government officials. Here then: In the absence of a positive recommendation, the costs of legal support are retrospectively paid, since in the case of criminal cases a final decision has been taken by which officials are declared innocent or exempted, etc. This regulation is really very problematic. Retrospective payment of the costs of legal support will lead officials and officials to put their hand in the pocket deeply, to pay themselves for their legal support for service matters for which there is no complaint from any public service or independent authority or OTA or OTA, and to wait several years for them to pay for these expenses. Article 35 of this draft law does not address these serious issues. As it is introduced, it perpetuates the above-mentioned problem, that is to say, the employee pays out of his pocket. In order to address these problems, therefore, we have tabled this amendment, in substance amending Article 35 of this law, which amends the previous law and we invite you to accept this amendment, because it is fair. If you do not do so, obviously for this particular article we will vote'represents'. In relation to participation in the share capital of the OTA development agencies, this is another amendment to so many arrangements for the development agencies. With this regulation, in practice, it meets officials of the New Democracy who were demanding and enables regional associations to enter. It adds as participants and other bodies - Greek Society for Local Development and Government, scientific bodies, chambers and goes by saying - and it enables the over fifty thousand residents to establish a single-participating development organisation. We are vertically opposed to these professional tools, which stimulate privatisation and the interconnection of municipalities and businesses. Finally, I should like to say an additional amendment that we have tabled. I have already mentioned it one, which is the legal support of public sector and self-government officials. The second relates to access to higher education for students in general and summer PAALs. Kerameos - Chrysochoidis, I would say dishonestly and in time dead, in the sense that the schools, universities, were closed, legislated against the country's summer schools. It imposes on the pan-Hellenic common topics, common matter and the same methods of examination in daily and esoteric GELs, E.S.A., by amending the existing ones, which provided for different materials, topics and examinations, which, together with the introduction of the minimum import base for daily and esoteric high schools, effectively cancel this 1% extra post in higher education institutions from the estuary, squeeze the hopes of these young people for a better future. That is, in fact, shrinking, removing their right to the second chance by nullifying them. With the amendment, which we tabled to add to Law 4777/2021, we say that candidates for the pan-Hellenic examinations for introduction to higher education from Spanish schools should be introduced into additional posts of 1% of the total number of admissions to schools, departments and introductory directions of universities, ASEANE, at the Schools of the Academy of Commerce and the ASEAN, of tourist schools, and that any other provision of law is repealed. Correct this injustice. The world is anxiously awaiting this second opportunity for itself and for its future. For the rest, in principle we are voting against the bill. In the case of various articles, but also ministerial amendments, we shall be speaking in dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u79	Thank you. The reason is the special speaker from my Greek colleague, Antonios Mylonakis. Please also convey the condolences of the Chamber for the death of his father to the President of Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have known each other for many years, but when you are raping our minds, I think something else is happening. You've taken a slippery road, Minister - I don't know what's going on - on too many issues. Look, you are bringing us a bill - we have said so beforehand - and we have volumes of amendments here and at the last minute. Why have these not been incorporated into the main body, Minister? What's the point? Didn't we have four meetings?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u81	All the amendments have been tabled in due course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u82	But, wait a minute, why didn't they normally integrate into the main body of the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u83	Everything?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u84	Of course it's all. All to talk about from the beginning. 'Good' you'll tell me. Two words, for we will discuss this in greater depth, on the opposition to SYRIZA's unconstitutionalism in Article 54. Let me ask you something, Minister. We have said many times that for the independent authorities we must be very careful. You are, I think, a well-known lawman that there must be five independent authorities under the Constitution. We have thirty-two or thirty-three. Hundreds of millions of people leave which we could use for the good of the Greek people. But ASEP is a capital for honesty, integrity and dignity. So at least we have to say and people know. I don't understand, is there anything you want to go through, anything "photography"? If we go backwards, I will tell you that Article 101(1) of the Constitution speaks for a six-year term. Very nice, six years of service. He's not talking about eighteen years of service. If we now want to play smart and want the member who will be in this term, Minister, the next term of office to make him vice president and the next term to make him president, then tell us who is who you want to make him president, to agree all together here, to sign and make him president if he is so excellent now. One advice, Minister, because a lot is said and heard, do not do that. Take it back. It cannot be a man who has erased a course in politics for so many years to become a humiliation for a man, because they once were classmates at Athens College, I say now, because SYRIZA did not say so. SYRIZA, you know, goes by the side road. He's with you, you talk with him, and then he comes, as with the vote of the frustrations. You said the same thing, you talked about it and now it says 'no, that's not the case.' Yes, gentlemen of SYRIZA, because you don't call them by name. Why did you object to it, Mr. SYRIZA's rapporteur? For photographic layout, didn't you make it? Or do you want to say it's unconstitutional? It is not unconstitutional if we want to take it in the broad sense, it can also be unconstitutional if we take it on its hard legal base. But here we don't do this thing. Here we are politicians, not constitutionalists. So politically, does your nervous system touch you or does it not touch you when you see a photographic layout?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u85	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u86	Well done, say it, 'yes'. To understand the Greek people once at last to speak the language of truth here. Well, Minister, I think you should get it back now, because sooner or later, you might find yourself in a difficult position. So let's go see now what's going on with this bill. A lot of bills, my Minister. The bills come in here in the glove of machine guns. You're going to change everything. You have built a state that has failed. Is the management of the country's problems with such political experience, Mr. Minister, touching you at all or not touching you? Criminal errors in everything. You bring bills and the Greek Solution tells you, a party of ten coins, that it is in the wrong direction. Oh, no. You're going through it. The same happened with the bills on illegal immigration, illegal immigration, refugee, and say it as you wish. Same things, five, six, ten bills. What you have been through to deal with COVID is not in the wrong direction? Did we not say at the first moment here - and President Kyriakos Velopoulos - in plenary that we need three, four things to deal with the pandemic? In other words, the tests, with the right basis of the tests, and not the dad taking it home, who in the village doesn't know what's going on, and a "arji bourgie and saddle" test and put it, he says, two centimeters in the nose, no, he has to enter the rug, no, he has to go in the mouth! What are these things now? Others say these tests aren't right. Where are you going with this? What are you doing? Of course you always win. How can you give a fight, let everyone tell you that you're wrong, but in the end you're getting winners? "Yes," he says "surely and we saved six hundred people from school." What are these things? Soon you'll open the focus and I hear you're going to do the same thing. I mean, if you haven't done this test, put it two inches, not three in the nose, or come down from the rupturer, then the other one won't be able to eat out. I don't understand. Of course, we have said that where there is a Greek abroad we should have the opportunity to vote. You guys wanted to put security controls on it. And now, Mrs. Jackie's gone out the other day like the rabbit. Obviously you had discussed them with SYRIZA, but last minute and SYRIZA - evil ones too - it says now: 'No, that's not the case.' And why did Mrs. Jackie, Mr. Zachariadis come out, and he said from the very beginning that you would change the law when you came back to power? Did Mrs. Jackrey say so alone? This is where you have raped our logic. Do us a favor! Let's figure out what's going on. You're making fun of the Greek people. One billion euros, Minister. It is currently running a competition of 860 million, ladies and gentlemen, plus VAT for the feeding of illegal immigrants. For the feeding of the Greeks, will you ever be interested, Minister, or do you not care if the Greek is eating? It's none of your business. Now I'm learning something else. We need to see it and I say it from here, ladies and gentlemen. These things New Democracy wants to do don't fit into a man's logic, an average mind. Mr. Skylakakis wants to destroy the military equity funds. Minister, Mr. Skylakakis wants to destroy the military equity funds, the military share funds, the Air Force and the Navy. The 4% commission received from the equity funds and there were, he wants to reduce it by 50%. He's gonna kick those too. Close those, too. Turn it all off. It concerns the military, those who have supported you for so many years, you New Democracy, and they still seem not to mind. But you're doing well. Well, if you do, do it. Keep going. That's your thanks to everyone. We're out of our minds here. You're rushing our minds all the time. In our village in Crete, Mr. Synthraki, they say something: One of the thief, two of the liar, third and bad day. We expect the three bills on the protocols of cooperation of the Prespecies Agreement with Skopje, Northern Macedonia, as you call it and honour this agreement. Let's see what you're gonna do. Will you bring them for ratification? Will the so-called former Macedonian MPs of the New Democracy vote? Let's see. Will you vote for them, Minister? Or are you going to leave like rabbits and be chased by the rifle to ask you? What does Mr. Vorides say? What does Mr. Adonis Georgiadis say about this treachery agreement? It's not treasonal at Georgia now. Sure. He honors her and respects her. I'm gonna go through the bill now. It's a bill that makes nothing. In other words, you want to tell us that the public has not been working so far. There was no good administration, Mr. Synchronism. The administrations all, the directors, the government departments didn't do anything. They weren't. The employees were uncontrollable. There were the millions of abuses: sexual harassment, things in the public eye, about which there was no complaint for people to put them in. There was corruption, but there wasn't a man transferring that there was corruption. There was no Public Code, there were no courts, there was nothing. And you come now to set up the internal control system, to build new addresses, new sections, to put your own, to bring people from the private sector into the public sector. You're building an integrity advisor, ladies and gentlemen. What's that? What integrity consultant is he? What will this integrity counselor do? Will he be sitting in one office with two, three, four paradoxes, and will I come and say'sexual harassed'? I don't have the right to make a complaint? Does the complaint have to go through the integrity consultant? The indestructible? Who's that integrity consultant? Why don't you put on a cave of complaints? Fly the complaints in. Are you laughing? You're laughing. People laugh at you. With your mess. Do what you bring bills that have failed from the beginning. I'll see you. It's okay. We will actually say a few things to understand. Now listen. It's structured, he says, this internal control system at three levels. Three lines. If I read to you the lines, you'll see that all three lines are the same thing. How you make it like this! You invent certain terms! ‘Some influence’. The "partial influence" was invented, the country was destroyed nationally. You are now inventing something... The first line includes organic units and employees with any working relationship that perform the tracking processes. They're tracking and mitigating the danger. They're tracking. The second line, which is the line, defence, comprises the organic units and the single-person or collective bodies of the entity which have the responsibility to ensure compliance with legal certainty. Ensuring compliance with lawfulness is on the second line of the control system. So, Mr. Voridis. It's not a matter of division, director, director General. They're useless. They don't control anything. So where is the good administration we're talking about for the public? The third line shall include the large internal audit unit that provides the head of the institution with reasonable assurance and advisory services regarding the adequacy of the governance procedures. What are you talking about? You don't understand what you're writing yourself. I have too much to say. First you have, Minister, realized that these internal auditors, which are both the General Accounting Office of the State and the inspectors and the auditors of financial control, are controlled by the Ministry of Finance. Watch out now, Mr. Synchronous. They're controlled by the Ministry of Finance. Of the ‘Chairmen’. Who are they? General financial inspectors. So these general economic inspectors control all auditors, with a large volume of control, three thousand cases. I told you in committee too. You told me you had them in. Mr. Skolakis took them out, and he'll bring it to another bill. For what? They don't get the auditors' allowance. I mean, those who control the auditors don't get the allowance. They're nineteen people. Fifty thousand a year. The Greek state has been impoverished, and that is why you see that the financial inspectors no longer want anyone to go. There are four old men left who do the checks. There have been fifteen who are making the pre-reviews as pre-reviews for all of the things that are happening at times in contracts and in control. So, what do we do? We're destroying the financial inspectors of the Ministry of Finance. Whatever you want, you do. Mr President, I shall end. I won't be long. The financial data I just want to see. The General Accounting Office of the State has taken out the report. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention the following to understand: A manipulation of money is given for new posts which do not in fact need. Internal control is a matter of control by the body. They'll make the internal control and control the offenders. There's no need for one who's gonna be like a complaint box to get the complaints, nothing. Documentary complaints by the civil servant, the body, everywhere. To go to his boss and the chief of staff send her over. Either he's being punished by the Public Code, or he's going to the prosecutor if he's done a felony. Annual expenditure. That's not what they're telling us. We don't know what kind of money the koruna's gonna make again. Annual costs to cover operating costs of independent integrity consultants, Article 23. Expenditure relating to specific programmes for the certification of internal auditors, Article 9. Expenditure from the electronic register of integrity advisers of the Ministry of the Interior. And not to forget that this whole security system excludes the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Shipping. No one understood why these should be excluded if you think there should be auditors and auditors. Potential expenditure for setting up internal audit units. Expenditure relating to the award to natural or legal persons under an independent service contract in Article 9(4) and (5). Expenditure on the execution of a specific project of internal audit units to individuals, Article 19. Potential costs for the Competition Committee from the option of selecting the head of the committee's organic units from the private sector. All this is a burden on the state budget. So nobody says - and the General Accounting Office does not - how much money will be required from the state budget for the new addresses, for the new people who will come to staff this internal audit system with these curious people who will sit in an office and get complaints. We as a Greek Solution from the very first moment we told you that such bills, which we veto with serious objections, will not be voting on. So it votes against your bill, Minister, the Greek Solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: 'Simplification of the framework for the exercise of economic activities of Ministries of Development and Investment, Labour and Social Affairs, Shipping and Islands Policy, Infrastructure and Transport, arrangements for the transfer to the Industrial Property Organisation of Trademarks and other provisions for strengthening development'. Mrs Fontaine (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Fontaine on her excellent report.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a bill by the Ministry of Interior with two main points, the creation of internal control units and the introduction of the institution of the integrity consultant. We already read in the first article and see that private economic criteria are being introduced, as international standards relating to the private sector are being introduced mainly, while references to Law 4622 and to the principles of good administration are presented to us distorted, such as, for example, profitability only in terms of time. The accountability relates exclusively to the organisation's internal body, without including the head of it, who is claimed by the provisions of the legislation under discussion by imposing it on the Agency with a virtual unit of supposed control. In the second article we have the definition of the scope with differences, but if we look at the relevant L.4270/2014. Now, in the third article, in the fifth definition of the third article, we see that standards for the application of internal control are also private sector standards, an international declaration by the Internal Audit Board of the Institute of Internal Audit, which describes the requirements for a wide range of internal audit activities and an assessment of this performance. It is the application of control standards in the private sector without any other references to other standards. In the fourth article we have the definition of the internal control system. An official may be inspected for political infringements without having infringed the law or regulation, which certainly goes beyond the constitutional principle of proportionality, which provides that the deprivation of rights cannot be disproportionate to the objective pursued. The fifth article describes the structure of the control system and refers for the first time to the OSH, which will define the standards for recording and updating control procedures, but does not seem to have any real say in these procedures. In the sixth article we have the presentation of the system's three-level structure. At the first level it has all the employees of the body, so they also have a supervisory role, in the second of their employees and the units responsible for control and risk management, and in the third of the special control unit, which is advisory and under the head of the body. It is worth noting that the second level essentially includes the heads of state and, indeed, institutionally, it is unreasonable what they are trying to do because they already have these responsibilities and responsibilities. So all we actually see is a shift from legality to efficiency. In Articles 7 and 8 we have references to the independence of the audit and the audit committee respectively, which are different from the audit unit. It shall have three to five members with a three-year term of office, which shall have no remit and shall not exercise powers over the institution. Here, ladies and gentlemen, the following question arises: If one of the five members work in the institution, is the meeting of the three other members legitimate and decision-making? If so, we can see that the independence that has to exist is legally undone. In the ninth article the control unit is presented and it is introduced, let me use the expression, the 'blue' of the fully private auditor with compensation, and it is not even possible to prevent it if there is a reasoned report from the head of the body. It also seems that, at the beginning of the bill, we are seeing the presentation and reference to international standards, here assigning the head of the institution to the approval of all internal regulations, manuals, etc. of the unit. It refers to the EMCDDA programmes for control capacity, which already exist. In the tenth article we have a description of the four objectives of the unit. These are the assurance of the proper functioning of governance systems, the provision of advice, the verification of computer systems and the control of the implementation of sound financial management. Of these, they're really impotent if anyone doesn't have special computer knowledge. We also see the introduction of the concept of sound financial management rather than good administration, a concept which is repeatedly mentioned in the draft law. Since the sixteen responsibilities of the unit, almost half require specific knowledge, which is assumed to be few and many of them cannot be provided to the fast-track seminars of the EMCDDA for auditors. It is assumed that this is a way of calling for private individuals to be involved to a greater extent than at present in all the units to be created. Moving on to Articles 11, 12 and 13 respectively, the first two in the Unit Regulations, the Code of Conduct for Auditors and the Annual Report of its Director shall be reported. The bad prediction is that only three characteristics are permitted for the whole body and not in detail, i.e. ‘positive’, ‘negative’ or ‘with reservation’. Furthermore, there is no possibility of taking action from any of the above authorities, if the report presents problems or indicates negative situations. Articles 14, 15 and 16 respectively refer to the planning of the work, control or advisory support and to the follow-up of the implementation of the recommendations. In Article 17 we have the definition of the annual evaluation and quality improvement programme for the internal control unit, which is entrusted to its own supervisor. Article 18 gives full access to the auditors' files and data of the institution regarding the performance of their tasks, but this does not seem to pass the control of the data protection officer. Article 19 provides for the use of services other than units or other entities, without being limited to the public sector. It shall be left to the judgement of the head of the unit. Article 20 defines auditors themselves as ratings of the control system and is referred paradoxically to the head of the body, not to their supervisor - and here is the paradox - if some sort of irregularity is detected, not to say some kind of fraud. It is not specified by whom or by what. Problem is still the control of the system that they may have structured themselves. Article 22 defines three bodies for monitoring units as coordinators, the HR, the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors. But the way of control and intervention is being left unclear, because reference to other laws does not necessarily make the framework and scope clear. In Article 23 we have the new institution of the integrity advisor, which we are observing - and I have told the committee that it will be established within the ministries, other than some, such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Shipping, Civil Protection and National Defence. The independence of the institution is also undermined here, since, where there is, it is the Minister and, in fact, it is a question of questioning - and I have not received it - what provision is there and why the institution is not extended to the other ministries, especially when there are complaints of irregular and malicious behaviour in these Ministries. Article 24 makes it clear, despite the Minister's assurances on the contrary, that it is not only a supportive and informative role, but also an advisory role for the consultant. Apart from that, however, he is also given a role in policy-making. In Article 25 - and here it is a matter - an institution is created, but it has no disciplinary responsibility. It is only figurative and only advisable that its action can take part in the formulation and preparation of the policies to be pursued. Articles 26, 27 and 28 define how the register of candidates is to be drawn up, the conditions, the training organisation and their certification and how to serve. But here too, we can see a lot of points left and a lot about their qualifications. The method of selection by a three-member committee, consisting of two management of ministries and one of the OSH, demonstrates that the only purpose is to place the final option under the control of the Government and not the body nor the independent authority. Article 29 makes it clear that the consultant may be an organic employee of the institution to which he or she will be posted as a consultant shall be assessed by the Committee which selected him and paid by the Host Body. An employee, in other words, the consultant, will be asked to investigate and assess complaints made about his colleagues with whom he may have worked for a very long time. Discipline only applies to the consultant in the HRC and to the other matters in the Host Body. Article 30 defines the coordinating role of the HR, which is thus undermined by an advisory body and only a body without executive powers. Article 31 covers a void as to who decides how the audit committees are to be set up, which it confers on the Minister concerned in conjunction with the Minister of Finance, while the HR has a decorative role to give only an opinion on the auditors’ log forms and code of conduct. The scope of the control unit’s responsibilities remains unclear and vague and the rules for selecting heads left to the discretion of the head of the head of the HR, while the Ministry of Interior and OSH leave the conditions for the monitoring of the control programme. Article 32 transitionally allows everything to be left to the leaders and the relevant provisions, considering that there are already units and audit committees, perhaps by other provisions, which do not refer to them. Article 33 deletes certain articles relating to this article. The first subparagraph of Article 11 of Law 3697 and the rest of the paragraph shall be maintained until the new control units are established, but at the moment already provided for in the existing legislative framework, such as, for example, public health units. We also see the most powerful control units that were already in place and which could actually impose corrections in the event of infringement of rules, which the powerless consultative new units are coming to replace. I am talking about units already provided for, such as those provided for in Articles 19 and 21 of Law 3492/2006. Ladies and gentlemen, no one disagrees that there are bad texts which need to be corrected, bad texts of the public order, but all the parties to the memorandum have nourished, mocked and giggled when you managed our country's authority. However, this cannot be done by the legislation we are debating today, which does not bring about any substantial change in the way in which it is in force until now, nor does it ensure that there is effective control, leaving what is going to happen with the existing control units. We are discussing a draft law that modifies recent laws, such as that of the AACC, a law that was passed two months ago, a law that - I have put it to you in committee, Minister - we really cannot understand where the need to amend its articles came from. I would like you to tell us today why, as I had told you in committee too, since you could not have asked for the vote to be taken immediately, the conclusion of the debate and the vote when you took up your duties, you could have made the changes that you wanted and not be in the awkward position for you to admit that you want something to change and you did not change it then and now. At last, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, stop the rough legacy. Stop every two months, every three months, every five to amend laws, which you themselves have brought. It is not possible, for example, for a reshaping to be followed by constant amendments of laws that have been discussed and voted on, especially when you have made your flag the right legalization. And already - I will close with this - tomorrow we will be able to discuss an amendment of the Law on the Vote of Failees, the Act that you voted on in 2019. I really wonder how much longer the citizens will tolerate your legislative whims and stubborn moves. Hopefully, I hope and I'm sure it won't be for long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. We will now go to the debate on the objection of unconstitutionalism tabled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Mr Hatzigiannakis from SYRIZA will have the floor, and then we will take it in reverse, as we do, starting from Mera25 and ending up in the New Democracy and the Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have tabled the objection of unconstitutionalism under Rule 100 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure for a straight violation of Rule 54 of the current Constitution, which provides that the establishment and functioning of an independent authority, its members, shall be appointed by a appointed term of office and shall be governed by personal, operational independence, as laid down in the law. The issue has two perspectives. It has the policy, which we have raised in all the committees, and it is right that Mr Mylonis, who has raised a number of issues, several issues, on the political aspect of this specific photography, as he has said, is a provision. Photography, of course, has issues of unconstitutionality anyway, as you are well aware, but there are even more specific issues, some of which the Scientific Committee of the Parliament put in its own position for Article 54. He's talking about it quite thoroughly. We believe that this article, despite the fact that the Minister has said in his reply, affects the core of the specific constitutional provision of Article 101a, because what the constitutional legislator wanted for a particular reason is, in fact, the members of the independent authorities to have a term of office. What a term means is not specified in the Constitution, it is not specified by the constitutional legislature. It leaves it at the discretion of the legislator, but it is also specific from the established case-law of the Council of State, but also from the theory that the appointed term of office must be small. That is why all the decisions of the Council of State - and we say this and within tension - both the very recent ones - and the very recent ones - of 2013 and the 95th of 2017, the 2583 and the 2586 of 2017 and the 1841 of 2020 and the 1136 of 2020 - actually only allowed the renewal of terms of reference, particularly with the previous institutional framework that was four years and therefore considered that an extension could be constitutionally tolerated. Just because the change came in 2012 and actually brought about the ban on renewal of the terms, but by increasing the time to six, once again the Council of State has said that extension of the terms can only be allowed for very specific reasons and for a very short time. What is the purpose of protection, the core of protection 101? That the appointed term of office shall ensure the independence of the members of the independent authorities. In fact, you have justified this and, technically, we do not define it by the law which the Council of State has prohibited, obviously as unconstitutional, who will be the President of the Supreme Council and who will be appointed by the Conference of Presidents. Obviously, the Conference of Presidents will appoint it. However, the Conference of Presidents cannot exceed what is set out in the Constitution in 101A. He cannot choose multiple terms, even with him - I would say - the way you have gone to put it, in other words, with the change, in fact, the promotion of people who have already served their terms. So here we have this paradox: if your own provision is accepted and unconstitutional - which is, I would remind you that it is one of the independent authorities provided for by the Constitution - it is one of the few independent authorities provided for by the Constitution and not by common law - to make its six-year term, to take up the extension allowed by the Genaris Act, the three years, half, to make nine years, to become the Conference of Presidents, to elect the president of the AEP to do another six years with the possibility of extending another three years. A Vice-President and President-in-Office of the Council will now be able to hold a term of ten years. The eight were limited by the case law of the Council of State. He had them, because they were the two years of service, of course. That is why in all the decisions, if you see them, it is not longer than eight years, six or eight years depending on them. We could say that we would have a constitutionally tolerated extension - because this has also been said by the Council of State - but here we see an obvious distortion of the core of the article in 101A, and we think that it is unconstitutional and I think that this House should judge it as such or the Minister should withdraw it before the House considers it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u91	Mrs Adamopoulou from Mera25 has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. I will repeat, for the people who are listening to us, the provision on which SYRIZA has put forward his objection of unconstitutionality. ‘The term of office of a Vice-President or a Deputy President or a simple member shall not prevent him from being appointed for a full term of office at a higher grade than that of the same authority. In such a case, no more than two terms in total shall be allowed.’ I will invoke the report of the Parliamentary Scientific Service which says that under Article 101a(1) of the Constitution, where the Constitution provides for the establishment and functioning of an independent authority, members are appointed by a certain mandate and are governed by personal and operational independence, as laid down in the law. As is clear from the content of this provision, the fundamental and interdependent institutional characteristics of the independent authorities are the definition of the membership of their members, their personal and operational independence, and as regards the definition of the term of office, the time limit is taken as a counterweight to the specific institutional independence, with which the members of the independent authorities are surrounded. The term of office of the members of the independent authorities, as the Council of State has decided, is interconnected with the personal and operational independence of their members and highlights the importance that the legislator and Union law and the national perform in their role. I'm on it. According to constitutional theory, a term is short. Continuous extensions are inconsistent with that given. The extension shall not extend beyond reasonable time. In this regard, the Council of State decided to extend the mandate of members of the National Broadcasting Council in 2013 in relation to such a regulation, which provided that the term of office of members of the National Broadcasting Council is extended on an equal footing until the appointment of the new members. In conclusion, the decision states that, within the meaning of the constitutional regulation, which provides for a specific procedure within certain limits, a certain term of office of the members of the independent authorities is explicitly laid down. The Constitution shall no longer be tolerated after the expiry of the term of office of its members, but after the reasonable period of time the Constitution shall no longer be allowed to extend the term of office of the members of the independent authority. It is therefore noted that the case-law cited above refers to the extension of the term of office, not to the question of the renewal of the term of office of members of the independent authorities. And here is the issue raised by the Scientific Service of the Parliament. The issue remains at its core identical. Both extension and renewal objectively lead to an extension of the term of office to those posts and more than eighteen years. So I conclude by saying that in any case there can be no distinct application among the members of the independent authorities, precisely because the provision of the Constitution is that the members should not be partyed to the party so that they can maintain their personal and operational independence. Any option of a second term in a higher grade shall turn the members of the independent authorities into lobbies of party formations, power parties in particular, so that they may then be proposed to a higher position. This is, of course, a photographic provision - more specifically, I shall refer to my speech - in the context of the state's achievement. We are in agreement with the objection of unconstitutionalism and we are voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u93	Good. Mr. Antonis Mylonakis has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as I have said in my prototype, this is a double matter. It is also unconstitutional, it is deeply political, and indeed its moral political dimension is much greater. I'll explain just so people can understand. We have said and proposed - and I think other parties have proposed it - the choice of members of the independent authorities and, above all, of the Presidents must be done in a defined way, not as it is at this moment. How's it going to be right now? The government brings a man, puts him in the Conference of Presidents and chooses whether he does or does not. Of course, with about 3/5 things could have been corrected, but they do not actually respond. Our view is that there should be three, four people, Mr President, from the Standing Committee on Institutions and Transparency, chosen by the parties and between the two, who will be chaired and then by the members. Now, according to the anti-constitutional intensity presented by SYRIZA, who still does not say the problem is the political one that exists - it's all right, they may have done other things in the past and they say "do not come out in the forum" - in the draft bill under consideration, Article 54 provides that there is no cloak to appoint the simple member for the new term in the post of Vice-President again for a new term in the position of President. In other words, one can start from a mere member, get an extension of two years after six years - reasonable, as the Constitution says, very well - then become vice president or president for another six years. So we see that the limit is going through and that is still set by the Council of State, that is, the eight-year period, six plus two, a reasonable time. What's going on here? We already have six years, we're going to another six, so we're going 12. And that's a problem, which you need to see. Another point which I think we should see, Mr President, and we have said this before, I think - and we must all support it is to stop this thing with the independent authorities. They're not independent, they're fully dependent. The person who is obviously photographed in this article is a person who I will not only say it, the sites say it, the world has plunged it, no matter whether the SYRIZA rapporteur admits it and does not want to make it political and goes through it and hides behind the Constitution. The Constitution is defined, defined is the office of presidents, and it does so on purpose...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u96	Listen, Mr Kegeroglu, because you, too, have responsibilities. Do you accept that it's a deep-minded politician except for an anti-constitutionalist, or do you not accept it? If you accept it, say it. If you don't accept, leave the rest. We have clearly said what the problem is. The problem is that it is photographic and unconstitutional, deeply political, Mr President. The Greek Solution is drafted and voted in favour of the request for unconstitutionality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u97	All right, let's move on. Here, from the Communist Party, Mr. Syntagakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. We will agree with the objection of unconstitutionalism, although now this game of unconstitutionality is obsolete, it is a model. And I say that because you are the ones who are systematically violating it and even according to what you are doing. When one is in the government, he invokes constitutionality and the other who is in opposition to unconstitutionalism and vice versa. In any case, this game must be stopped and concluded by the Greek people. You who so much are defending this Constitution have made it elastic. In any case, we say 'yes' to the request of unconstitutionalism, 'no' to mocking and implicating. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u99	Good. Here, from the Movement of Change, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that the introduction of the independent authorities to our country's governance system, despite the problems they face, has helped to balance its operation. Of course, not all the independent authorities have the same problems, neither do they have the same success, nor do they have the same effectiveness. The PASOK also took the lead as a government in establishing constitutionally guaranteed principles today, but other, as well as regulators, fully believe in their modern role, in the useful and crucial role in the functioning of democracy. The Change Movement shows the greatest interest in their successful operation and preservation of their role. Unfortunately, the governments in recent years, SYRIZA and the New Democracy have not had the same viewpoint and adherence to the concept of statism - from their own perspective - instead of supporting the independent authorities, they have shown a lack of respect in various ways and various legislative and other actions. It is the SYRIZA's declared goal of controlling every joint of power - since the government's power is not enough - and the New Democracy's traditional ownership concept of the state that keeps it well - despite the declarations of liberalism and modernization of Mr Mitsotakis - and that proprietary concept of the state is also manifested in various ways, such as the unacceptable process of intervention and misdemeanor of legislation relating to Article 54 of the draft law. We have put ourselves in a very negative position both in the way of legislating and in the content for 54, and we intended to consider - and we are doing so with absolute interest - the proposal of unconstitutionality and all that had been heard in the committees. After all, it had been announced. I note that I have waited with great interest today and with the scientific view of the House, rather the view of the Scientific Council of Parliament. They did not realize that, despite the fact that the Scientific Committee, the Scientific Council, the issue, raised a matter of unconstitutionality. It's a matter. So the objection we are discussing concerns Article 101a. And indeed, they are asking questions, but also contradictions. It is, of course, pulled out, as it appears, without a solid basis, even though SYRIZA has excellent constitutionalists who could have documented an existing issue. First of all, most of it is spent on the support of provisions passed a few weeks ago, in particular Article 44 of Law 4675 in Genaris, which, of course, SYRIZA had not voted for, but now he thinks it is a good thing. On the other hand, you will tell me, but this opposition is a political disagreement, and it is not about the violation of a constitutional provision. It is a political disagreement which we consistently express. We voted against 44 of that law, and we are voting against 54 today. We're not looking for excuses to say it's a good 44. I do not know if you wanted to invoke, ladies and gentlemen, any other article, but you do not, so we are only talking about 101. So, what does 101 say, according to your application? You are right there to mention the provision in Article 101a of the Constitution that members of the independent authorities provided for in the Constitution are appointed by a mandate, which is primarily aimed at ensuring their personal and operational independence, as laid down in the law. Yes, in that they are not allowed to cease before the end of their term of office, unless they resign - it is another - or unless they consent. It is, in accordance with the constitutional provision, for the joint legislature to provide for either an extension of the original term of office of the members of the independent authorities for a period of time, the duration of which is reasonable - in Article 44, which we have mentioned, on conditions, for the possibility of extending the term of office - or, in this case, for the selection by the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament and the appointment of the members already serving in that next step. This was also done in 1999, when a Vice-Chairman was appointed as Vice-Chairman and then appointing himself as Chairman. It lasted for twenty years and went out at a great age, eighty-eight - I think - years. Since then, limits have been set for both the time that one might be for age and we should not get back to this point. In 2011, however, an appointment was made of the then advisor of the AACC, Mr. Bolofi, to a Vice-President, without any issue of unconstitutionality. Also, after the law of Law 4055/2012 on a six-year term of office of members, without any renewal, in 2016 on the Government of SYRIZA the Deputy President of ADAP Mr.Zampiras is placed president and the current member of the PSE, Rodolf Moronas, is placed Vice-President of the PSE, never dealing with the issue of unconstitutionality, and indeed with proposals that you have made. So you're retrospectively discovering that your proposals were unconstitutional. Furthermore, if the proposed provision is now decided to be unconstitutional, then an unforeseen directly or indirectly will be created by the Constitution for Selection of Presidents or Vice-Presidents for a whole category of eligible persons, as those who have been or have been in the past simply members or vice-presidents. The Constitution did not want to create a coma, leaving the qualifications and obviously any obstacles to the joint legislator to be identified. If you ask me whether they must exist, of course, and they must exist, but it is a matter of the joint legislature, it is a matter of law. On the contrary, in fact, the appointment of President or Vice-President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Kegeroglu, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, I shall be very brief. Appointing a Chair or a Vice-Chair, from the independent authority itself, shows, without abuse of that right, that he is also the more harmonised than the principle of continuity in the administration of the authorities and their autonomy. This is generally accepted by the Qualified Opposition not only for the examples I mentioned in the past - it is, of course, in place today - that, for the post of Vice-President of the AACC, he has proposed an active member of the AACC who still has a few months' term of office. I don't think you're mocking him and suggesting him for a few more months! This is 'no'!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u103	What?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u104	Obviously, you didn't suggest him for a few months. So you do not believe in what you say about this. So the only thing that is being raised is the total duration and the fact that we cannot go back to the 20 years that have existed in the past. This is a very important issue. We shall therefore vote against Rule 54, due to a misrepresentation, but also because of content and we shall put it in roll-call vote, in order to express the will of the parties participating in this House and not to say more at once, and to get to the point, as Mr Synthetakis rightly pointed out, to have done 'caramella' the unconstitutionality, even in cases where there is no strong political disagreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u105	All right, Mr. Kegeroglu, close up!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u106	I repeat, there is strong disagreement! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u107	All right, Mr. Kegeroglu! You've been prosecuting! Mr Efstathos Konstantinides has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Constantinidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the House indeed has the power and the obligation to monitor the constitutionality of the legislation to be adopted. The very nature of the Constitution as a binding fundamental law results in the relative obligation to respect and respect the institutions indiscriminately. Therefore, in the short term and formally correct, an objection of unconstitutionality is put forward, but it is unfounded, since it is based on erroneous assumptions, interpretations and conclusions. We'll then tell why. So let us see what the relevant provisions are. It is, of course, Article 101 of the Constitution. Where the Constitution provides for the establishment and functioning of an independent authority, its members shall be appointed by a designated term of office and shall be governed by personal and operational independence, as laid down in law. Their choice shall be made by a decision of the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament, taken by a majority of 3/5 of its Members. The term of office of the members of the independent authorities shall be extended as the appointment of new members. The other provision is the amended Article 44(2) of Law 4765/2021 which provides that the term of office of the members of the AACC is six years, without any possibility of renewal. This has provided for the possibility of extending the term of office to half the vacant posts for once and for half the original period. The third natural provision is the questionable provision which provides that the term of office of members, including the Presidents of the Citizens' Co-Chairman, Vice-Presidents and Deputy President, is six years, without prejudice to Article 44(2) of the AACC and the possibility of extending the term of office of members of the AACC. Let us now see what comes from these provisions. It says that the members of the constitutionally guaranteed independent authorities enjoy personal and operational independence - which, of course, is not disputed - must be qualified according to their mission - and this - is not chosen by the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament - nor is this affected - and which is defined by a certain mandate, the duration of which is the responsibility of the joint legislator to determine it. So that makes this provision clear the context of the existing regulation, so that there is no question at all. What does the anti-constitutional objection say about this? It says that the joint legislature is bound in its work by the constitutional provision so that it cannot provide a period of such length as to abolish the constitutional provision for a particular term and that the time of the predetermined term of office, as the objection says, of the members of the independent authorities must go exclusively to the post in which they were appointed, not to allow any change to a higher grade, which, of course, does not result from any reading. The provision of Article 54 continues to violate the requirement of a limited term of office as it constitutes a disguised extension for an additional term. Of course, the objection of the Opposition Officer, which was adopted by some parties, attempts to establish itself in opinions expressed on the possibility and scope of extending a term of office rather than assigning the crisis to a new term of office. However, the term of office refers to a specific function rather than to a service as a whole from any post. Furthermore, the constitutional provision refers to a particular, namely a specific and not limited term, and the relevant case-law refers to an extension of membership, whether it takes place with a limit on the reasonable time or expressly provided for in a provision of law and not to the renewal of the term of office of members of the independent authorities, as includes the Scientific Service in its report. In conclusion, this is an attempt to make a deliberate paradigm which does not stand up to a grammar interpretation which is perfectly clear, but also to an end. In no case, however, is the integrity and independence of members of the independent authorities, of procedural and substantive guarantees affected by the new regulation. The objection was arbitrarily raised from the requirement to extend the continuation of the renewal until that of the new term, which is, of course, separate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Otherwise - and I am closing down with that, Mr President - the integrity of members is in no way affected, since this is naturally unnegotiable. These members have been assessed by the relevant procedure of the Bureau of Parliament and their integrity is not called into question. In this sense, the new regulation is fully compatible with the Constitution and the objection of unconstitutionality should be rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Constantinidis. And we come to the end with the position of Minister Voridis on behalf of the government. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps I could refer to the good and legitimate thoughts of my colleagues from New Democracy and the Change Movement and stop here, because the completeness of development has really covered this to a great extent. Allow me only some thoughts to clarify the issue of the objection of unconstitutionality submitted by SYRIZA. What are we talking about? There is one provision in the existing law, which reads as follows: 'The term of office of members, including members, is six years without any possibility of renewal'. We're talking about the ADP right now. What do we come here and do? We come and add a provision which reads as follows: 'Contingent or term of office in a place of Vice-President or Vice-President or a simple member shall not prevent his appointment for full term in a position higher than that of the same authority. In such a case..." - says the provision we bring - "... no more than two terms are allowed in total". Right? These are the provisions. So what do you come in and say? You come and say that this addition of the provision we make is unconstitutional. Why is it unconstitutional? What provision do you claim to be impacting? The provisions of Article 101a of the Constitution. What does the Constitution say about this? ‘Where the Constitution provides for the establishment and operation of an independent authority, its members shall be appointed by a appointed term of office and shall be governed by personal and operational independence, as laid down in law.’ Where does the objection of anti-constitutionalism focus on the insult of the constitutional provision by the provision we bring? Says it's not a term of office. Do we have the case-law of the Council of State which helps us in these thoughts? There are a number of decisions. The most recent is Decision 1136/2020, but there is another decision 223/2018. These decisions are therefore as follows: 'Except for this constitutional arrangement, which provides for a specific procedure within certain time limits and expressly introduces a mandate of the members of the independent authorities, it has been considered that it is impossible to continue the operation of those authorities after the expiry of the term of office of their members and until the selection of young people, but only for a reasonable period of time to be judged in the circumstances at hand. It follows that, after a reasonable period of time, the Constitution no longer tolerates the extension of the term of office.' What has the Council of State dealt with here? The end of the term of office, the non-election of a new person in the administration and the extension by law. That is what the Council of State answers here and says 'Yes, you can even be extended, even if you have not chosen a new one, but then there must be a reasonable extension time'. I would remind you that these were mainly concerned at the time mainly and primarily with the PSE, if you remember, which was difficult with the creation and were extended to the term of office. So that's what he said. Question: What does the Council of State have to do with what we are doing today? Answer: None! Why no one? Because there is a crisis in the election of the institutions here. What's the crisis? The crisis of the Conference of Presidents. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] I do not extend the mandate, I do not come to say ‘Who are the members of the board of directors, the president, the Vice-President of the AACC? Has your term expired in six years? Take another six." We don't do that. We say that the Vice-President who is in office may also, if the Conference of Presidents so decides, become President. The President may also, if the Conference of Presidents so decide, become a Vice-President. Am I prolonging any duties?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u111	Isn't he prolonging?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u112	Of course not! After intervening - I'm telling you again - judgment! I have no legal extension! The Conference of Presidents can decide otherwise, ladies and gentlemen. Here, on the contrary, your interpretation violates the Constitution. Do you know why your interpretation is violating the Constitution? Because it takes the opportunity of the Conference of Presidents to judge what it wants and tells it 'No, you cannot do that'! [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So your interpretation is constitutionally wrong, no doubt. If I may, Mr President, I would like two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u113	Here you go. Go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much. But I have a few questions. When did you discover this anti-constitutional theory? Oddly? Yesterday? When? Why? Because you have voted for a provision. This provision was adopted in 2016 and says ‘Members of the Constitution of Independent Authorities selected by the Conference of Presidents for a term of office until the entry into force of Article 61 of Law 4055/2012 may be re-elected’. It wasn't unconstitutional then? Had the 101A changed? Was it different or was it the same? What happened then? And further, I am not talking about the institutionally sound and enforced consensus. And in order not to be confused with consensus, consensus is imposed in this case by the Constitution. It is not a question of anyone's opinion and likeness - I, too, include 'anybody' - because the Conference of Presidents needs a majority of 3/5 to decide. So that's where consensus is required. The constitutional legislature wants it, and it needs to be searched by the parties in the constitutional check! And the parties are right to consult! In this consultation, what was SYRIZA's proposal? Did you come with a proposal that did not affect this arrangement or with a proposal that raised it? And the objection of unconstitutionality, like the objection, is it just some pretext because it somehow did not fit into your planning for this negotiation? It is fair to negotiate - and I stress it - that each political party should ask what it considers appropriate for the proper functioning of the IASC to be done at the level of persons. But, because I also hear conspiracy for independence, is independence not guaranteed by the convening required by the Constitution with 3/5? That's not gonna happen now? Is it abolished? Will another body select the management of the AACC? The 3-fifth Conference will not be selecting it now with the regulation that we are bringing? I have a second question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u115	And that's what you're finishing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u116	That's what I'm ending. Is the AACC's independence not protected by the provision for personal and operational independence? Is she wrong? Tiny way? Personal and operational independence - because you are erroneously and incorrectly, Mr Hatzigiannakis - is guaranteed with the guarantees granted to members of the IASC, not by their choice. It is not by virginity that the choice is made. Indeed, it is through a political process within Parliament that the members of the IASC come up. However, throughout their entire term of office they are shielded by personal and functional criteria, with privileges, by not subjecting them to any structure, so that they can do their job. The objection of unconstitutionalism is therefore a pretext and the government is asking for it to be rejected by Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u117	Good. The positions have been completed and it is clear that the majority rejects the objection of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, will the vote be taken by the representatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u119	This has changed for many months because of the pandemic and is on the basis of a parliamentary majority by decision of the Conference of Presidents. The term ‘engineered’, etc. shall not apply. Now here's how we keep going. I will give the floor for three minutes to the Secretary-General, Mr Doctor, to present his amendment. Then there are four colleagues, namely Mr Theodorikos, Mr Zachariadis, Mr Mulkiotis and Mr Delis, and then Mrs Adamopoulou, the Parliamentary representative of Mera25, has asked for the floor and we will continue. The Minister will tell us to the Bureau when he wants to make his position. The same applies, of course, to other parliamentary representatives. Here, Mr. Secretary, from your position and with your mask, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with our amendment to the House, the Ministry of Culture and Sport brings three proposed provisions into the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior. These provisions aim, firstly, to improve the existing legislative framework for the selection of the artistic director and his deputy to the two major state scenes, the National Theatre and the State Theatre of Northern Greece, secondly, to ensure the orderly functioning of three supervised bodies, namely the Greek Film Centre, the National Lyrical Scenes and the Athens Concert Hall and, thirdly, to shield the viability of the live show and audience industry. In particular: First, with Article 1 in relation to the appointment of the artistic director and his deputy to the National Theatre and the State Theatre of Northern Greece, we are amending Article 3 of Law 2273/1994, as we had already announced. With the proposed provision we ensure the preconditions for an open selection of artistic directors of these two leading state tents of the country, inclusive and with absolute transparency. In particular, the procedure is amended in the following points: First, an open public invitation procedure is followed where all interested parties can express their interest in filling the post. Secondly, the choice of artistic directors in the National and CBEB is not by direct decision of the Minister of Culture and Sport, but a special committee of assessment and selection made up of national and foreign figures of recognised prestige or with a contribution to the theatre, which assesses and opinions, is now being established. Thirdly, it is possible for this committee to proceed with a substantial and comprehensive assessment of the candidates for their artistic vision, their administrative adequacy and experience, but also their general professional course, while the public and openness of the procedure ensures that the space and time to formulate any reservations for some of the candidates will be given. Fourthly, the Deputy Artistic Directors at the National and CIBE are no longer appointed by the Minister of Culture and Sport, but by decision of the Board of each body, upon a recommendation from the artistic director. And fifthly, clear predictions are laid down as to what should happen in the event of the early end of the mandate of the artistic director for any reason, and that ensures continuity in the administration of the country's state tents. With regard to the second article of the amendment, this is intended to enable the procedure for the adoption of rules of operation to proceed until 30 September 2021 for the Hellenic Film Centre, the Lyceum and the Music Hall, so that operators can operate effectively, maximising their capabilities. Finally, with regard to the third article, what is this really doing? It recognizes the peculiarities that pandemic has brought about in the functioning of the live show and listen. In particular, there was already a provision on our part, with the regulation of Law 4708, and after amendment by Law 4761, on the issue of tickets purchased for plays, concerts, etc., live performances - listens which were scheduled and cancelled or postponed because of the pandemic. With the imported provision, we are actually extending the timeframe in which this provision applies both for cancelled and deferred performances and for the period in which the voucher, the credit note, is awarded to viewers. In particular, the arrangement as it will be tabled and made after a legislature, concerns theatrical performances, concerts, etc., live performances - listens and extend space. The period is from 25 February to 30 September 2021 due to the pandemic, to include live performances - listens of this year's artistic period. Accordingly, the credit note, the voucher that the organiser may grant, will have effect until 30 September 2022, that is to say, a year after that voucher is not used, the money should be repaid to consumers by 30 November 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Undersecretary, wait. You won't leave. So, does the rapporteur or the parliamentary clarifying question want from New Democracy? Installation will be done when you receive the floor, either in the protology or in the denology. Mr. Ragus has asked why he asked the Secretary-General. You have the floor for three minutes, Mr Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. The truth is that I had in mind asking some questions about substance, but it came up, Mr President, if I am wrong, correct me - and another question to me. Does the Secretary-General have, on the basis of the powers allocated to the Ministry of Culture, take the competence of the so-called 'legislative initiative' so as to be able to propose this amendment itself and not the Minister of Culture, Mrs Mendoni? Minister, you must explain this, please inform the House, because, if you do not have the power to introduce legislative initiatives, amendments, etc., all of what we are doing at the moment is invalid and I would ask you not only to withdraw it, but to urgently come Mrs Mendoni as she must, unless she has given you a legislative initiative from the powers conferred on you by a joint decision of Prime Minister and Minister. I don't know if what I'm saying is understandable. If necessary, could the President please...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Ragossi, I'll keep the time because you're old. I just want to remind you of this. As far as I know, on the basis of the FEK, the Secretary-General has competence. Secondly, the amendment is signed by Mrs Mendoni. Thirdly, most importantly, it was whether the Prime Minister of the bill, Mr Vorides, accepts it or not. Obviously, Mr. Vorides has accepted it. It's just that Mr. Dragonolakis came in and made the presentation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u124	He's not showing up. It proposes the amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u125	The report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Mrs. Mendoni signs her. This, as an old parliamentarian, you know it's happening all the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u126	Watch out, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u127	...not just now, but many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u128	The parliamentary act is the testimony. Support is provided by the government as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u129	Wait a minute. It is only that Mrs Mendoni signs the amendment that Mrs Mendoni has not given it to Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u130	Other legislative and other about the substance of the subject. That's what Mr. Dragonolakis has. But now I repeat that I will close the time and put you back in three minutes. You know very well that during at least thirty years of age I am in this Parliament, too many times instead of the Minister, the State Secretary comes and presents the amendment. For God's sake! Don't put such matters on the table!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u131	Mr. President, he's being held by us...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u132	Please, on my behalf.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u133	Please, because one more reason - and I am now entering into the essence - is that in itself. So, as we know, Mr. Yatromanolakis, not only are we here today, but the Greek people also know the name and the name of the Greek people, and it is called "Lignades Dimitris", if I remember well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u134	Tell them to your location, where you're free to say whatever you want, not now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u135	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u136	You asked me the floor for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u137	Yeah, but how do I end up in the three-minute thing I didn't even start?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u138	I've put you zero time. Don't complain!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u139	I'm not complaining. You're interrupting me. I didn't complain.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u140	Good. Here, finish in three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u141	I, therefore, started by saying this - and I would ask you very much to say this again at the outset, because your interruption will not have helped him understand - that we know very well that this amendment comes because the government thinks that it is trying to heal the big issue that has arisen, the great scandal involving the placement of Mr Lignade and all the co-incidents. So you are bringing here today an amendment which actually makes things even worse. Instead of showing that you have learned from everything you have committed yourself, the slippers, with the beginning of your governance, by abolishing an international invitation that has come to air for the staffing of the artistic director of the National Theatre, you are coming today and the evil is making it worse, because this is where you come with one - and here the questions are starting, Mr President, so that you do not complain - that you are not complaining about an amendment which states that personalities of unknown prestige will be the ones to decide on the artistic director. Where will they be decided from? Who will they be? What criteria will characterize them? What criteria will they satisfy? What attributes will characterize them? Is it also possible, Mr Patronmanolakis, to introduce a procedure whereby an artistic director of our state theatres can be even someone who has just made an official in a private production office? Where are you going like that with Greece? Where are you going that way with Greek culture? It's from bad to worse. That is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u142	Minister, do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u143	I want to reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u144	Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u145	Mr Ragosisi, on the first point you raised, you are experienced in this House. I think you know I'm not the first State Secretary to defend a provision of his Ministry, especially when I have a co-responsibility in the matter. I therefore oppose this and go a little further to the point of things. First of all, what was there before, so we wouldn't be fooled and because you're perhaps new-born at SYRIZA, perhaps, ask your colleagues what happened before, when SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks were in the government. There was, therefore, a potential provision according to which although a Minister for Culture wished, a procedure could be followed openly to fill the position of a director in a cultural body. Did this happen in four years? No, with an exception. Where? In the National Museum of Contemporary Art, where was it defined? A commission. What kind of people? A recognized prestige, indeed, only from Greece. So where did this process end? The procedure, the contest was declared barren. Why? Because there was a provision. The device did not lay rules very different, very specific, but then an invitation came out. The invitation, therefore, "ASA" was a process of artistic selection. A key, then, alerted difference in our proposal and which, if you want, learns from the failures of decades, is to have a more comprehensive assessment procedure for the whole work of a candidate to fulfil such a position. When we say "the whole project", we mean the work that may have been done in a position, but also the ethos it carries. If you also think that the earlier provision that was in existence would work like a safety net to avoid incidents like what we all know, you are wrong because there was no provision. It is therefore a pretext for your suggestion. We remain, of course, at your disposal to discuss this further, but it is very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u146	We're done. Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our country, like all humanity, is being tested by the coronary pandemic, a pandemic which has underlined the need for a modern state and by institutions that operate without gaps. Greece, the Greeks are fighting this battle against the pandemic with a plan, with the first priority on the government's side of the government for protecting human life, because this is the measure of our culture, man. The battle is in progress. We are dealing with a once-in-a-half-year phenomenon that is certainly global. It is crucial in the next phase to continue and complete the vaccination programme with dignity, humanity and effectiveness, as has been the case so far. Citizens' support is a right to those who work in any capacity in this programme. At the same time, we are giving a two-front struggle to save people and reconstruct the economy and not just to put it back on track, but to promote reforms, to create new bases for the progress and upward course of the country and society. Contrary to the government's responsible attitude, Civic Opposition is trying at this time once again to create an anti-government front. Once again, he's making a big mistake. The pandemic is not a political option, it is not a theoretical debate on the way we are going to go. He's out there, and he's unfortunately taking lives. And for the pandemic, obviously, it is not the Prime Minister or the government's policy. The only front that one can create against the coronary pandemic is unity, solidarity, responsibility and design, the front that the government is creating and implementing. The criticism is, of course, legitimate, no doubt, but it must be accompanied by alternative proposals and not destructive ones. If anyone is concerned about the state of his party and the collapsing of his powers - and I am referring to the Qualified Opposition - the responsible position of the Prime Minister that elections will be held at the end of the four-year period is a very serious given fact that the Qualified Opposition, as well as the entire political system, must be taken seriously into account. There is time, ladies and gentlemen, for Officer Response, there is no need to give you the stress of the elections. There is no need for acts of opportunism, such as the recent statement by Mrs Jackson, which certainly exposes her, but also her party, the political opposition party. He tried to mock Greek expatriates, underestimated them and caused their logic, as well as the logic of all of us, accusing the government of the preconditions. As you remember, when the relevant dialogue took place, the Left Party also asked for a useful - in my view - and in my opinion - compromise, we proceeded so that the constitutional requirement for negotiated votes could be implemented, so that the Greeks would be able to vote for decades from the country in which they are abroad. Unfortunately for SYRIZA and his credibility, another cyvisis has evolved in this matter. It is obvious that the Civic Opposition does not want all Greeks to vote abroad from the country they are in. This, ladies and gentlemen, which society is looking for, is positive political definitions that open up new roads. New Democracy is the country's responsible, patriotic, reformist force and responds to the concerns and concerns of society in a positive and reformative way, with reforms relating to the role of the public and self-government, such as the one we are debating today, the reconstruction of the state, the development of a project, with resources, as reflected in the Recovery Fund, which gives the power to change the country and to guide it safely to the challenges of the 21st century. The current Prime Minister has come as an expression of the large social majority of the measure and of the logic and overcoming the traditional division lines between the right and the left in a credible agreement of truth with the citizens. That is why we say no to artificial division, we say no to the divisive logic that led the country where it was in previous years, where the Greeks gave us a clear mandate on 7 July 2019 to escape. Therefore, despite our very difficult period of pandemic, we are going to implement the necessary reforms. This bill is added to the chain of reforms of the Ministry of Interior concerning the colonisation of the state promoted by this government, the reconstruction of the AASP and the integrity, which was our previous bill, the modernisation of the processes of naturalisation, the digitisation of the public and the institutional armour and strengthening of local self-government. Internal control units were a programme commitment and a positive response from the New Democracy programme to the demand for good administration, transparency and efficiency and will soon be a law of the state. It is a new reality that shows our respect for the citizen and our willingness to support public officials and transparency. We establish internal control units in public administration, because each body must have all the necessary guarantees for its proper, reliable and transparent functioning. The new law refers to all the structures, functions and procedures that need to exist in a modern public governance system. All these sub-items are what this bill for the first time approaches by introducing the concept of the internal control system. The Court of Auditors is the first body of the Greek State to introduce the concept of internal control by adopting an integrated framework with its decision in 2020 limiting the internal control system. The effective and efficient functioning of all these elements is a secure and consistently necessary treaty for the public body to stay on track and achieve its operational and budgetary objectives. The definition of targeting, rationalisation of staff, performance of evaluations, signature authorisations, separation of tasks specifically with regard to the financial operation of the institution, audits to avoid conflicts of interest in the field, for example, public procurement are, in practice, the application of the principles and requirements of an internal audit system to each public body with clear roles for all stakeholders, the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Finance, the National Transparency Authority. With a new institution at the disposal of each official in the public sector, the integrity adviser shall be an objectively confidential point of contact with each body's employees in order to seek support, information and advice on ethical and integrity issues at their workplace. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] We are therefore institutionalised on the basis of best international practices with the thought of the citizen and the public minister, doing the reforms for the reconstruction of the Greek state. Obviously the very important initiative we have prepared is to clarify the role of state and self-government in connection with a very large dialogue with the municipalities, regions and Greek society to complete the first reform package in the public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, too. The speaker of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Konstantinos Zachariadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President. I listened with particular interest to Mr Theodorikos' position on the pandemic, and I really wonder. Is it a success that one year and two months, fourteen months after the start of the pandemic, unfortunately - I say it and I mean it - we are rather surprised that one record breaks after another is broken to both the intact and the deaths, unfortunately also to the people who have been impounded outside the ICM? And, unfortunately, the government on these issues is consistent with its policy of factors that have strong volatility. Obviously no one wanted this development with its ‘Johnson & Johnson’ vaccine. But there is. Do you have an alternative plan? Will you strengthen the National Health System? Will you look towards the treatments with monoclonal antibodies, drugs? Will you make substantial reinforcement of public transport? Not one day, the Prime Minister will inspect buses and the next day will not work. Is it possible to open schools with the same number of children who closed down six months ago, a year ago, before the pandemic? So will the new school year begin in September and October 2021? Or do you think we'll be done with the pandemic? Do you read scientific developments and suggestions? Do you understand what adventure we've entered internationally? There's also a second impression, Mr. Theodorikos. Do you understand what the Mitsotakis Government is doing with the change of the Minister from your face to Mr. Vorides' face? We voted in Parliament with two hundred and ninety-eight votes. Don't you understand that? So you're telling us that the government is changing politics because Mrs. Jackie made a statement? Is that what this is? So, you're reading the interviews of Vice-Population officials and legislating? Congratulations, Minister. Well done. In mid-March, however, the Prime Minister, in discussions with the relatives, had announced it. So it's not the statement, Mr. Jackrey. It is Mr. Mitsotakis' expressed will to be against his own December 2019. That's the reality. I was asked by Mrs Lykoulis about our position on the question of the participation of the payroll. Our position is perfectly clear, Mrs Liikali. We were saying what the Coalition and the PASOK always said. You've changed your position. You now say what the New Democracy says. Sure. See what Mr. Loverdos said ten years ago in this House, in this Chamber. That's right. [[Noise from the wing of the Change Movement]] Don't move statements to me, because I too can very easily rescind from the file what each party said. Well, today we say what the Coalition and the PASOK said. You say what the New Democracy said. In any case, however, there is a conquest in honor of Mr Theodorikos. A law with two hundred eighty-eight votes. This is a conquest for the political system, and that's what we have to stay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u150	For this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u151	Don't interrupt. Let the speaker continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u152	That's all you want. We, Mr Voridis, therefore, are voting against this bill to come to the contents of the bill. It is a bill without legal authorities, without administrative authorities and - let me say - without moral principles. You're violating the principles of good law. You brought to the consultation a bill with thirty - four articles that arrived after making sixty - two articles. There is now another twenty more plus the amendments. What you will vote for yourself - I want to believe - in the evening as a government majority is four times what it had come to the consultation, you who, as a opposition to us, criticised good lawmaking. That's the good legacy. You're blocking self-government. You remove responsibilities from municipal and regional councils. You want them decoratively. You voted, Mr. Voridis, a law on the ASA in Genarris, and now you're changing him. Vorides is changing and overthrowing Vorides. That's how badly you legislate, Mr. Voridis. You don't have enough post-call employees to advise you? Can you get any more poster? Let's talk about it. If we're going to legislate three times to find a setup, hire some posters more to help you. Or is it because you allowed all retired people to have a high school certificate in relation to what was happening in our day? You've taken a few unrelated people there. I'm not saying it personally. A very good friend of yours has one who's a secondary graduate. Head of the office. He may be a great man, I don't know him, but I'm telling you because you were telling us about excellence. You bring in, it says, "photographic" configuration for ASP. I don't have a problem. I also spoke to the committee, Mr Kegeroglu, by name because they were strangled in your own space within the Conference of Presidents. Who is it that has been proposed by SYRIZA and is violating the arrangement? I yelled at it here. Press the button, Minister, press the button, Mr. Kegeroglu, and tell us what this proposal of the SYRIZA is that is being violated. We don't do face policy. We're making a policy for the authorities. And on these issues, despite our considerable disagreements, we think there should be a conglomerate, because the dark right is trying to control everything. And that's no problem for the parties. This is a problem of institutions and democracy. So, Mr Voridis, unfortunately Maximos and you, after Mr Gerapetititi, who brought in that arrangement for the person responsible for the PPE, is compelled to pay your respects. What can we do? At this beginning with what you legislate and what you voted on, you get young and you get old, you get old and you never get out. That's what you voted on. ‘Stop’ means the constitutional requirement for a limited term of office and for the personal and operational independence of the authorities. It's a shame, Mr. Voridis, that a biologist comes in and a law-approved one says the alpha beta of the law. That's too bad. Mr Voridis, this Parliament operates on constitutionality and unconstitutionality. You may come tomorrow and say "I bring a law and an article that the donkey is flying". I am sure that the Congress, applauding more loudly than the day it applauded the Prime Minister and this morning and in the evening when it put the 500 euro fine, will approve it. And since you say it nicely with a tomb and style and you look at us wildly, etc., the applause will be more resounding. But you know what? Here you don't talk to fantasy DAPHians who because you're more brooded, you tell them better than the other neo-democratics. This is Parliament, Mr Voridis. We are not at a general convention of law in the 1980s. Is the Scientific Committee of the Parliament of SYRIZA, Mr. Voridis? What's he saying? We discussed them before. Read what he says. Now let's go to the internal control. Tell me. You don't hire doctors and teachers to run schools. Who's gonna do the internal control? Who's gonna do it? Will you hire civil servants? What are the guarantees of dignity for these recruitments, if ever? Do you want to do all internal control direct assignments? Perhaps, Mr Vorides, with an amendment at a later stage, will you give Mrs Nicholas the authority? It's a question and a proposal. He's doing it successfully. Why do I mention Mrs. Nicholas? Apart from the Secretary-General for Criminal Policy, it is also excellent on direct awards. That's why I said it. I've learned that. So this bill is another proof of arrogant, state of mind, of ownership. And you must understand that as much as you despise institutional guarantees, institutional counterweights, rules, procedures, in Greece there are procedures, institutions and memory. Your bulimia, Mr. Voridis, for power, and the dominance guide you. But what you are doing brings us out of the European context. What other European country is this happening? Reconstructing public administration, Pecha lists in the media, Vorides lists in media for the campaign of aborts. Let's see how this campaign is going to take place. Groups of direct awards, buttons with the president of EADESY, ties with the President of the Single Transparency Authority. Fortunately, however, it begins to grow in society a visible dynamic, to change this situation, to leave Mitsotakis, to leave the right. And you know that, too, because you've said so many times from this Step, that you can make fun of a few or a lot of people for a while. But you can't make fun of everyone forever. Your policy demolishes every sense of sovereignty, objectivity and transparency. We will do everything in our power to highlight this dark side and we will be present to highlight these methods. Thank you very much and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds. He named me personally and said that I changed the statements. I'm entitled to a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u155	Here you go. I didn't understand anything. Explain to us, maybe.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u156	I shall explain, Mr President. Thank you very much. I feel the need to explain this, honestly, because we have often said to you - and we read behind the words which name is hidden. Here Mr Zachariadis told us a lot and with a narrow voice and a proud look. First of all, half said it. In fact, he blamed the rapporteur for the Change Movement, to me personally, that I altered Mrs Jackson's statements. Stay away from me such things. Get it back and withdraw. I didn't change anything. The gar much of grief gives birth to insanity. That's all I'm saying. And your grief is great, because you're really twisted and the New Democracy government's corner and you're on the canvass. No matter how far back you go, Mr. Ragosi, back there... Yannis, you're gone again while I'm talking. It's because we've known each other since the 20th. So things are very simple, crystal clear, gentlemen. Mrs. Jackie said very specific things. He said that we passed this law, because we voted for it, and that is why we have this interest, we passed this law because, he says, they were cut off, against the will of the SYRIZA, when we were negotiating a whole week in committee, and you, Mr Ragosi, went out and told the committee "the Minutes will come to the committee". You even said that thousands of voters could define the result internally. You practically admitted, and why you cut the cuts. So you come here today and say that the opposite has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u157	It's understood, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u158	Finally, counterfeiting history. No alterations I've done, far from me. I am speaking politically. But, Mr President, I protest because Mrs Jackée's statements are self-sufficient. That's them. Interpret them. Put the party elsewhere, put the perfect one away, put an asterisk, insert a paragraph. That's what your headmaster said. As far as I know, so far he's still on SYRIZA. Is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u159	All right, Mrs. Liikali, that's understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Kegeroglu, let me ask you, and I know what to do. Mrs Liikanen has spoken on a point of order. Do you want to speak on this matter? Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u162	I shall explain, Mr President, why I request the floor on staff. Mr Zachariadis referred to my face, twisting a point of view I expressed. I want to restore it so that there is openness between us here in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u163	Here, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u164	I said that the proposal for any member of an independent authority to go vice versa is contrary to what SYRIZA says and supports today. But he did. He has made such suggestions and made such decisions. I mentioned specific examples of this change and the decision of the Conference of Presidents. I invited the Scientific Committee's opinion, which says that the law of SYRIZA allowed this to happen. This is the Scientific Committee. So the person who contradicts what he says and what he does is SYRIZA. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, too. I will now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Mr Vlasi, in order to put it on the table with a general number of 839 and a special 79. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u166	I'm going out of the climate now, but I think we'll have a long time with Mr. Zachariadis and SYRIZA in general to talk about what is my responsibility. After all, I think that after Mrs Jackson's last speech, they have come too close to our words, but we will have many days to talk about it and I believe that they will end up in the end. So we are informing you today of the amendment we are tabling on the participation of officials in the Communications Division at the Higher Service and Disciplinary Board of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. With the entry into force of the new organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which we have just voted on, it is foreseen that a representative of officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Secretaries-General is now involved in the Higher Service and Higher Disciplinary Board to the extent of the General Adviser. The officials in this sector were transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by the Ministry of Digital Governance. At the moment, however, there is no employee in this sector who holds the level required by the agency. In order to overcome this problem and make it possible to set up the two boards, the present arrangement provides that the two boards may be set up with the participation of officials from that sector belonging to a lower grade or from Communications Counsellor I. The provision is purely transitional and will apply until the promotion of industry employees to the extent of the General Adviser, as required by the new organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The provisions of this amendment do not give rise to expenditure on the State budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u167	Thank you. Mr Mulkiotis (S). — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Mulkiotis, on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government with every piece of legislation is trying to convince us that it is a government that operates as a high-performance management group, which is something like a dream team, which brings reform areas to society, to the economy, to the public administration, a group which, for the first time, is supposed to establish innovative policies for the first time. As far as the area of public administration is concerned, for months the Government of the "excellent" by means of the legislation of the Ministry of the Interior has clearly demonstrated beyond question or doubt that in practice it is nothing but a government of "excellent" by posterity, with exceptional recruitment and award of heads. There is now a series of internal control systems in the public administration. On the one hand the Minister tells us that he is setting up an internal audit system for the first time. On the other hand, it tells us that the basic structure and philosophy of the internal control unit is not new, but it has existed since 2006. It says that it does not claim to discover America, that it is incorporating international practices, that there are international internal control standards, that there are good practices that it is trying to integrate into public sector procedures. What does not clearly tell us is that they are actually paper exercises. What's the reality? The reality is that, contrary to what was announced by the famous "final" state of the Minister of State, Mr. Gerapitris, on the unification of the diffuse public control mechanisms under the National Transparency Authority, this draft law creates other control mechanisms, internal control mechanisms above the competence of the National Transparency Authority. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues from the Change Movement and our rapporteur made general and specific resignations to the committees today. The general conclusion is that it is practically impossible to control the administration of a body with this bill and with the system proposed by the Government. And it is practically impossible for seven specific reasons. First of all, there is no preparation for the logistics of a new change. In practice, you create a series of waves with a very heavy bureaucratic burden, in fact by removing staff from services, in order to set up internal audit units, audit committees, integrity consultants, etc. So what? In other words, a few thousand civil servants of thousands of public bodies will be moved to these new agencies, but leaving huge gaps behind them. At the same time, there will be a great raid on consultancy companies, which also provide internal control support services to all these public bodies. Secondly, it does not correct the mistakes of the past. In Greece both Law 3492/2006 and Law 3871/2010 and Law 4270/2014 provided for internal control throughout the public sector to reduce waste and increase its efficiency and efficiency. The above laws did not achieve their objectives, which were set for effective internal control throughout the public sector, for very specific reasons, which it does not seem at all, but take into account this draft law, which is therefore also condemned to fail. Third reason: The audited will select the auditors. You heard that! Controllers choose auditors! The integrity officer, instead of being subject to an independent authority or the Transparency Authority, is chosen by an insolvent body by three directors-general and is subject to the political leader he controls, the Minister. Fourth reason for failure: the head of the body will approve the control programme. Fifth reason for failure: there is no mechanism for protecting employees from any possible misery of auditors. Really, who's gonna control the auditors? First reason: no differentiation of internal control according to the object of the organisation is foreseen. On the contrary, it is imperative that all general government bodies adopt the same internal control system regardless of the nature of each body. Finally, the seventh reason is that you are giving greater emphasis to the control and enforcement of legislation than to trying to develop a common understanding of what constitutes acceptable behaviour and acceptable integrity. Ladies and gentlemen, with the amendments to Article 3 of Law 3051/2002 concerning the appointment of an independent authority to carry out or carry out its term of office in a position of higher grade for full service, it is no longer clear, not sunshine, it is clearer, if I may say so - that the New Democracy is only mobilising the AACC with members of Vice-Presidents and President of its choice and not with a proportional distribution of these from proposals from the parliamentary parties in order to ensure pluralism and ultimately the independence of the authority. If all of this, ladies and gentlemen, are innovations or reforms, then, unfortunately, we are in a distant dark past which has nothing to do with the necessary conditions for progress imposed by the reality of the 21st century. I repeat what our Parliamentary representative, Mr Kegeroglou, has said, said, is being tabled on behalf of the Movement of Change in the roll-call motion for a roll-call vote for Rule 54. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u169	We also thank Mr Mulkiotis and Mr Mulkiotis for the economy of time. Before I give the floor to Mr Delis, a Member of the Communist Party of Greece, to read the request for a roll-call vote tabled by the Members of the Change Movement. ‘We shall apply for a roll-call vote in Article 54 of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior.’. There are also the signatures of all the colleagues of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u170	Immediately after Mr Delis the floor will be given by the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou. Then we will continue the list and there is a rotation of parliamentary representatives. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Not even a year and a half have passed since the law on the vote on revenues was passed - this law has not yet been implemented - and the issue from nowhere is being reopened with clear agreement, of course, between SYRIZA and the New Democracy. Be careful, Ms. Jack, who is not a mere SYRIZA Member, is, at the same time, a sector leader in the area of Election Hellenism of her party, with an interview that characterises them unfair and disgraceful restrictions and the criteria set by No.4648, criteria that she and her party voted a few months ago. Then Mr. Vorides comes in and as ready for some time, and as courageous, he takes it, and within a few hours he submits a bill to be lifted, to abolish these criteria. The disorientation guaranteed by the media! Vote uncovered! Let these be considered by the Greeks as well as by the Greeks who live in the country. But why did these criteria come in on a JRC proposal? But in order to prevent the change of the electorate, as in our country for the acquisition of citizenship, so also the right to vote, it still applies, yes! - that anachronistic right of blood. So those who have absolutely no knowledge of the political reality of Greece, those who do not maintain real and substantial ties with the country and, of course, those who do not suffer and the consequences of any political choices. And if I'm not mistaken, this latter is a key component of the urban political conception of the right to vote in relation to the obligations it produces. As long as all those who do not have the slightest ties with the country have a single ancestor of Greeks. And, of course, it belongs to many third-generation immigrants, most of whom may never have come to our country. These are the criteria that have been set in order to prevent the electorate from changing. On the contrary, these criteria also cover those who have left - the wrong expression - those who have expelled with your policy from the country in the years of the crisis and who want to exercise their electoral right where they live in the foreign countries. They also cover the above as, of course, they are facilitated by the law that was passed, Law 4648, and the Greeks who work or study abroad, have ties with the country and probably also have the hope of returning to it. That's the reality. The rest is only a hypocrisy, a vote and a disorientation. I now come to the bill, and we want to make it clear from the outset what we are talking about. This bill is one of the prerequisites for this new cycle of assessments that has already begun and is running within the framework of the European Union's memorandum of supervision. The explanatory memorandum of the bill clearly states: "Once, the disorientation of the internal control arrangements concerned only financial and budgetary management, limiting its value as a crucial tool for the governance of the bodies. The draft law seeks to strengthen the accountability mechanisms within each public administration body by delimiting the internal audit system and setting up internal audit units throughout the public sector.’ In other words, it must be said that all this multiplier internal control mechanism is only natural continuity, the development of financial control, but which already exists and operates throughout the public sector, and particularly in social services in a way which is extremely suffocating, and which seeks, through and through cuts in social expenditure, the strict observance of budgetary objectives, the well-known, that is to say, surpluses for people to understand. With the bill, however, this is also a step further. Behind these heavy and thousands-heard declarations on good administration, corruption, it is difficult for the government to incorporate more firmly into its policy, that is, the European Union, the pretexts of their urban strategy workers into the public sector and, at the same time, to adapt more effectively to this policy and to all public services and all the collective bodies of the local government. Besides, allies to the government are the CEDEFOP and the overwhelming, vast majority of local government officials. The core of this strategy, which all governments are promoting, cannot - and so is in a bourgeois state - be the needs and priorities of business groups and capital in general. Just one example is enough to substantiate what I said. How many and how many, true, have we not heard and how many and many have you not voted here for all these years to modernise the state, for its effectiveness, for its effectiveness and now for its digitisation? What is the reality of the people? This same state becomes an incredible, amazingly fast, awesomely effective state when it comes to licensing and supporting investment, such as in the wind turbines sector in Evia or Thessaly. However, this same state is desperately slow, extremely unwilling and irritatingly ineffective when in the same area it is called upon to protect the property, even the lives of the people from natural phenomena, of course, because this state is incompetent or because the evaluation of its services is not done properly or because it lacks internal controls, but because its main priority is to support the interests of business groups. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let's go to the bill and I'll need just one minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u172	Yes, Mr. Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u173	Thank you. This internal control system, what will it control and account for? To the first question, life gives it every day. What will be controlled will, above all, be the faithful, unobstructed application of government policy. As far as accountability is concerned, it is nothing more than its combination with the so-called evaluation of officials and services. As for the operational independence of these internal control units, this independence is so great that it is organisedly within its head of control. And here we're not talking about simple, standard subjection, as you know. Here's the head of each body doing the whole thing in these internal control units, approves everything, such as operating regulations, internal audit manual, annual work programme, and even internal audit orders. Finally - and to close, Mr President, and I thank you for the tolerance - we have tabled an amendment on summer high school, which we consider absolutely fair. Who are they studying, ladies and gentlemen, in the summer high school? They usually study younger and older, backward, men who at great sacrifices and difficulties try to combine their studies with work. So instead of helping these people to attend the Spanish schools by giving them reduced working hours, giving them leave for the pre-school examinations, the government is on the contrary moving and effectively excludes them from their admission to the university for those who wanted it. Until two months ago, all these people knew there was a 1% rate on importers at the IOIs specifically for them. It was, of course, a positive distinction beyond fairness. So the government comes up and this 1% drops it cold and puts the students of the summer high school in the same bag as the students of general high school, so that they can all go first by the cutter of the minimum import base. In our amendment, therefore, we call for an additional 1% to be reintroduced for those students in the summer high school. This is a fair request and a regulation that is fundamentally consistent with the rights of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, too, Mr. Delis. As I have already said, the Parliamentary spokesman for Mera25, Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. I would, of course, prefer the presence of Mr Voridis - without wanting to underestimate the presence of the Deputy Minister - because I have some questions to ask him, to make specific proposals to specific articles. So, unfortunately now, I'm going to address these questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u176	Mrs. Adamopoulou, what did you say? I didn't hear it. Say it again where you address the questions. The other ones I heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Voridis, why is it about his placements during...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u178	The Deputy Minister is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u179	If you can answer Mr. Voridis's statements and have an opinion...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u180	You are addressing the Government as well as the Minister present.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u181	I don't want to underestimate your presence, it's just about statements made by the Minister. If you can answer, I'd be happy to. As we all know, there have been four laws since 2006, which provide for internal control in the public sector, with the aim of reducing waste, strengthening the efficiency and efficiency of the public sector. However, our reports and studies show that from 2006 until now these legislative choices have not achieved a minimum of their objectives in relation to the effectiveness of internal control, and now you come and think that this is a solution. How can you think it is a solution when it is clear that you do not take into account the reasons that have so far led historically to the catastrophic failure? Explain to us why the current laws have failed so far and to explain to us how you treat the successive failures with this bill. Let me say that sometimes the Minister's statements express a cynicism - let me say this - and I say this despite the fact that, anyway, the exercise of the executive power in political systems involves a cynicism, which consists of saying its own - it is the opposition - that the opposition is rightly or unfairly shouting and that the government is coming to overcoming these disagreements - precisely because it has the majority - by the vote '150 plus 1' and to legitimise what is legislative and its more general sovereignty. Obviously, this is not a personal approach alone, Mr Vorides. It is a general approach of the ministers. We see the ministers come with a style of paternalism, which is incompatible with your party's neoliberal ideology. It is another thing to agree that at the end of the day you will do what you want and it is another thing to tell us that what you propose is the only, correct and serious solution and that what we oppose you is upright or immature. I shall therefore refer to a statement from Mr Voridis in the committee. ‘Where do you want to put this internal audit unit? It'll be set up, like, within a ministry. Where do you want that to be? You want me to put her in the headmaster. But that's exactly what I have to avoid. Why? Because this unit will control the work of the directorates-general, the addresses or the departments. Where do you want to take her? Tell me some idea. Can we get her out of the ministry? It is at the highest level, precisely in order to be able to have this control process, the process of the operation of the security disputes, effective control of the process, and to be monitored by the Minister at the highest political level. Where do you want to go?' Mr. Vorides is asking. I have said precisely the words of Mr Vorides, not because I want to expose him personally, but to remind him of his questions as he has made them, and to express a proposal other than his, which - if he has the political will - could give a coherent alternative to the issues he has raised. He may have wondered rhetorically - because the answer already has it - and the question of where this internal control unit should be subjected to hierarchically, you are right to say that it should not be subject to the Director-General - we agree - but from that point on, our disagreement begins. Our disagreement begins before the Ministry's internal hierarchy. You say "Let's get her out of the Ministry?" The answer is yes, get her out of the Ministry. You were told by the Administrative Chamber. The previous experience since 1987 of reliance on the various bodies of auditors by the minister responsible for control did not benefit. So why do you have the choice of a recommendation, other than the audited body, appear to be incomprehensible? Here is the question, and that is what I ask the Deputy Minister or the Minister to answer. It is a good thing that colleagues such as Mr Ypsilantis are speaking in theory, who said that bureaucracy has reached the limits of worthy neutrality and has no ideologies. However, if we consider the clientele system, which perpetuates bureaucracy, it is not simply a worthy neutral one, but it is highly partisan. So this position is unsuccessful. It has nothing to do with the Greek public administration. I'll take it a little further. The bureaucracy of the world as a whole is not just neutral, but as it is primarily interested in its own perpetuation and strengthening, that is, it develops mechanisms and behaviors that suit a living body with an instinct of reproduction and survival, it eventually produces a fine ideology. And this is what we see in the European Union with the super-democratic structures, with the countless administrative units, which eventually invade the mechanisms that shape the final Union policy, implanting the ideological signal. So let me say that the New Democracy party is well aware of how to ideologicalize public administration, but this is another debate outside of this moment, it is not the present one. So I return to your question, Minister, and I ask you in my turn. Why does it seem impossible for you to have an internal control structure not subject to the Ministry hierarchy? What's so outrageous about a choice like this? First of all, in terms of staffing, nothing more needs to be done than what is already foreseen in terms of staff. They can be university teachers, graduates of TEIs, with specific knowledge and training, but once they decide to deal with internal control and are chosen for this, they may be hierarchical and refer not to a Minister, but to an independent authority or body. That's the principle. I am referring to the Public Administration Inspector, whom you have abolished, because he was absorbed by the National Transparency Authority. If the problem was that the general inspector was a person donor to the government, there is a solution for that too. It could change the status of promoting the leadership of the entity, according to the standards applicable to constitutionally regulated authorities, so that a person of broader acceptance may emerge and that there is no shadow that constitutes a choice government. Such a person, in any case, would have more guarantees of independence, openness from the Minister concerned, who, by definition, is, unfortunately, serving the agenda of his government and thus guided the public service in the respective directions. So reconstitute this body as an independent body. Fit his leadership with independence and broad political consensus and obey the relevant structures there. Its employees will be chosen by the same body, in cooperation with the AACC. It will be available to the audited body, as is the case with the annexes to the Law Council of the State in the various Ministries, and not even equally, in order not to establish special links with the audited and thus to lose their objectivity and credibility. If you don't like the general inspector, make something else, but with the philosophy I mentioned. I'm going to Article 9(4) and (6). There you give the opportunity to be entrusted to a natural or legal person by means of an independent service contract. This is a provision which opens a very dangerous door which needs to be removed. As the Federation of Independent Workers has mentioned, internal control is a particularly sensitive process. It is not understood by the public body to entrust the implementation of this procedure to natural or legal persons outside the public sector. It is precisely this observation that takes added value when we arrive at Article 18, which provides that internal auditors have full and uninterrupted access to archives, natural elements, documents, spaces, activities of the body and cooperate with workers as necessary for the implementation of their work. The provision of such access to outside services, to individuals, poses serious risks to the safety of the personal data of the operator's staff and to the confidential information that is available to him. You also say in Article 19 that if the personnel of the body are deemed to be well-intentioned, they may be designated as experts who have relevant knowledge and experience. So, with this easy way out, you will never be training civil servants, you will constantly plead that the tank of officials is not the right one and you will entrust this sensitive work to private individuals with service contracts. And of course let me remind you that the samples you have given us in terms of awards are handy. And here you will serve your own blue children. Those who have not been able to become poster will be quite comfortable with this piece of pie. What else don't you do? The bill does not specify in particular what is meant by 'improvement of efficiency' and anywhere you are not specific about its ratings. You don't set targets anywhere. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall also use my dentology and tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u182	Yeah, that's what I don't know if you have to decide on your own.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u183	If you'll allow it, if you judge that I can do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u184	Yeah, say something better.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u185	Okay, excuse me. I have said that too many times, they have not made the remark. What can I say? Nowhere do you set targets, such as the elimination or reduction of a certain percentage of time-consuming and repetitive procedures on the part of the service, the reduction in the time spent by the public when they are being traded with the public, the reduction of suffering in general when they are being traded with the public. Now see the internal auditors' access to files, documents, etc. Although they have it, what sanctions are envisaged in the event of a refusal to grant them access? The question is who, and by what procedure, will judge whether this access is necessary for control. Will the administrative officer in his possession invoke the provision, interpreting and without accountability will refuse to provide information and documents to the auditor? Why does this matter remain in the air? You'll have to make it clear. And we go to the notorious article 20, which creates a very serious issue. You say that in case of evidence of fraud it cannot be entrusted with investigations into internal auditors. In this case, the internal auditors shall take into account the data obtained during the audits. Here, then, we have an internal conflict of provisions, because we have Article 38 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is entitled 'Obligation to announce a criminal act without delay to the prosecutor'. Civil servants and those who have been provisionally entrusted with a public service are required to announce without delay to the competent prosecutor a criminal offence which is automatically persecuted, if they have been informed of it in the performance of their duties - and indeed in writing - all the information which exists concerning the criminal offence, the perpetrators and the proof. You tell us they're going to the head of the body when there's evidence of fraud. As for the crime of 386(2) of the Criminal Code, the felony fraud, as we know, is being persecuted automatically. Because it is a lesson in the joint experience that has been mentioned in the committee too, that corruption can be a monitoring or a component of fraud, it is clear that here we have a contradiction. I am referring to the own-initiative prosecution, that is. What will the internal auditor do after all? You bring him before a dilemma, a division. He's going to go to the chief to show him the evidence, so he's going to violate his obligation to inform the prosecutor without delay, or he's going to run to the prosecutor, violating his obligation to appeal to his chief, so he's committed a disciplinary offence? And I conclude with the notorious article 54 of the bill, on which the objection of anti-constitutionality, referred to as "photography", has been filed, so that the choice of the leadership of the AACC in view of the great full-scale written tender announced by the Government in 2022, can be merged. In fact, the press had leaked the name of the vice-president, who is believed to be "photographed" as a chosen government. I sincerely hope, for the dignity of the executive, that these publications will be disguised, because if we finally see the President of the particular person, which is widely mentioned in the press, it will be very difficult for all of you at that time, because that person has supported in a scientific document in 2019 that any renewal of the mandate by the government is an unfair intervention to an independent authority, which is dismantling its members. In any case and regardless of this issue, with the provision of a term of office of up to eighteen years for a member of an independent authority through the promotion of a higher post, the nine-year rule is violated and, after three years, the six-year extension. So now you are telling us that a term of office or a term of office in a place of Vice-President or a mere member of the independent authority does not prevent his appointment for a full term of office at a higher grade and, in this case, no more than two terms of office, that is to say, a total of - to simplify it - eighteen years. You have used the Conference of Presidents in your reply as an instrument for proposing the Member. The question is: What does the Conference of Presidents do? Does it legalise the circumvention of the constitution, which we analysed in the anti-constitutional plea? Is the Conference of Presidents to contribute to parties, to choices which in any case circumvent the Constitution, in relation to the term of office of members of independent authorities? Here's the question. We therefore consider that the government is moving on its well-known path of tampering. I fear that he is already out of the spirit of the constitutional legitimacy of Article 101a, which states precisely that members must have a mandate within a reasonable period of time. Therefore, any recommendation from the Conference of Presidents to extend the term of office beyond reasonable time is also a recommendation that obviously violates the Constitution and the case-law of the Council of State. When the current president of the AACC requested about a month ago to extend his term of office until October 2020, in order to leave with other members of the same series, the request was rejected by invoking age limits, but there are also other members of the AACC Council, for which the age limits have been exceeded and for which the Government does not replace. So you realise that the combination of all these facts gives an unpleasant scenario of pheasantness. We therefore call on you to join in the spirit of the editorial legislator and to dismiss all these suspicions of unauthorised party manipulation, to immediately withdraw this provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u186	And we thank Mrs Adamopoulou. I would ask that the Step be prepared and that Mr Christos Boukokouros, Member of the New Democracy, will be given the floor. Let me say something on the occasion of Mrs Adamopoulos. The Bureau always facilitates and understands the obligations, particularly those of the smaller parties, which are multiple and outside Parliament. Indeed, if other colleagues in the larger parties look at the list, they will see that in the normal process of placement or they are completely absent from the smaller parties or are one. So the Bureau must show more understanding and show it. You just need to come up with this earlier. I wanted to make this speech, that dentology has something to do with the Rules of Procedure, but for the smaller parties which are also required in other procedures within and outside Parliament, there is always any President-in-Office of the Council in order to make use of both protagonists and dentology and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u188	Yeah, you have the floor, I don't want any shadow left. I'm sorry, Mr. Bukkaro.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u189	I don't know if I'm misunderstood. Once Parliament's Rules of Procedure gave Parliament's spokesman the right to secondary and teratology, it did not even occur to me that I had to ask for your permission, and I have never done so, nor did I have a parliamentary representative. We're just saying, so we can let you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u190	They state it in advance, I heard it, if you allow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u191	If it was the way I made it, I apologize, and it is understood that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u192	No, no, Mrs Adamopoulou, there is no sorry. The Rules of Procedure simply provide for protagonists. Dentality is something that can be used, because something new can emerge through dialogue and positions of Ministers, colleagues, parliamentary representatives. The same applies to tritology. Otherwise, the Rules of Procedure would say from the outset that they will speak for twenty minutes. In other words, it gives the right to do so. However, there is no misunderstanding either on your behalf or on my behalf, but neither is there any of the Presidents. Deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u193	In any case, Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u194	There is always the good intention of any President-in-Office to facilitate in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u195	I, Mr President, shall conclude by agreeing with you that we must not abstain. You seem to understand, but I don't know if there should be that understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u196	All right, Mrs. Adamopoulou. Mr. Buquoir, I apologise for the delay. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last two hundred years of our free life, public administration has been identified with negatively charged concepts, such as 'dobletti', 'govern', 'power'. I still believe that we have not won a level of public administration that would match our times and with the idiosyncrasy of a modern, if you like, European state, since I understand that all the political forces in the country are targeting this. As long as there are still 'grey islands', 'blue' points in the functioning of the public administration, as long as the conditions are not clear, I think the negatively charged concepts will remain. And why is today's bill important? For it is precisely these primary, if you wish, obligations of the public administration, that is to say, the proper and effective functioning of the service of the Greek taxpayer, who supports the public administration and all of us. Therefore, I would say that the criticism of various wings regarding the law on the "final" state and any legislative initiative aimed at the effectiveness and clearing up of the landscape in public administration, aimed at implementing government policy, are innovative approaches. The public administration, ladies and gentlemen, as annoying as it may, must do, on the basis of the requirements of the Constitution and the existing legislative framework, is to implement government policy. And that applies with the adoption of the laws with the majority principle here in the Chamber that we are debating. Could the public administration, in other words, implement the policy of Civilian Opposition or any other opposition? Could it apply the policy of another government? The Greek Government's policy is being implemented. It is a question of how it will be implemented in a proper, meritful, effective and non-existent manner. That's what we're talking about. So that is what the government's legislative initiatives are really aiming at. The new draft is that it defines the development and functioning of a national control system with internal control units and the establishment of another institution, the integrity consultant. The clearer it is the environment in which the public official, ladies and gentlemen, must operate and deliver, the better he does, with the ultimate aim of better service for the citizen. As far as I am concerned, the public administration must seek a solution to the demand and problem posed by the public. I feel that a large part of the public administration is also looking for the problem today. Why? Because there is no clear environment for who controls preventively, but if you want to, and also for cases where, in addition to preventive control, they are denounced or surfaced in the functioning of a public service, whether this is in a Ministry or in a local government organisation. I would therefore say that this bill with the new institutions that it creates comes to deal with a number of problems. For example, the integrity consultant will be a support of public officials for corruption, for issues of ambiguity, if you want, which is a phenomenon that we have been dealing with in public administration and for abuses of authority of heads of labour and even sexual harassment, which is an issue that, if you like, has been very much concerned with Greek society lately. These are the targets of the bill. The basic question therefore is what kind of public administration we want. We want a public administration system that meets the maximum degree and minimum time of the demands and needs of Greek citizens. Of course this bill also comes to complement the government initiatives on digital governance, which has recently made real leaps. There is, in other words, a holistic approach to such issues and malicious ones that afflict public administration, but also, by extension, the Greek citizen. We must therefore move forward, remove weaknesses and formulate practices that will lead us to a better outcome. But, Minister, I would say that in the context of a debate on the bill, it has intruded the last forty-eight hours and the big issue of the vote of our relatives. We really have the drop of masks here. The faces are literally demolished. We see what the position of the political forces of the country is for the role of the Greeks. We are talking about another Greece, which is why it is important. Anyone who thinks they are the relatives and their vote is disappointed. Homosexuals behave, as all the electorate behave and form all the election results. The phobias of Officerial Opposition is an issue that has also been discussed in the context of the law's vote. However, the mockery has emerged now, when we see the relevant department of Greekism from the SYRIZA, in an interview with the New York NATIONAL KYRYKA, saying that any restrictions are disgraceful to Greek expatriates and coming to the Chamber of Parliament, the SYRIZA Members and confronting the challenge of the Minister for the removal of these obstacles to express the position we see in the last weekend. This is the ultimate mockery of the family. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, in a minute I will finish my position. So the obstacles must be lifted. We must not treat the body of Greek homosexuals with opportunism or fear of fear. We are talking about homosexuals who are registered on the electoral lists. We cannot hear here about "fourth" and "fifth" generation Greeks who have never come to Greece, have no contact with Greece, and their parents thought about thirty, forty years ago, to write them on the electoral lists to make a transatlantic journey and to support the New Democracy. In short, that's what you're telling us now! And that is an objective approach! Instead of thinking here about how to make use of the homogeneity, which is close to the international forums, in a globalised society, where the spread of information has incomplete speeds and can be better informed of the political developments in the country compared to an indifferent native, we are trying to put new obstacles and new stumbling blocks. The relatives are following both the debate that is taking place here in Parliament and the debate that is taking place in society and the media. It is a cheque imposed by times, by globalisation, by the needs of the country and a cheque that further strengthens our demographic problem. Sooner or later, the Greeks will take a massive part in the election procedures, because they deserve it and why we owe it to them! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u198	Thank you. He has the floor, after the Stepma is settled, SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Theophilos Xanthopoulopoulos. Immediately after that, Mr. Yiannis Loverdos will speak from New Democracy and will be followed by the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Hetas. Here, Mr. Xanthopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Because the Greeks are listening to us and watching us, I would like to refer a little bit to the procedural section that preceded today's debate. There were thirty-six articles in consultation. The articles in the committee - courageous and the committee are an incubator - became sixty-two and four amendments were added to them with a total of twenty-two articles. You are aware, therefore, that another piece of legislation has been consulted by society and another we are called upon to vote on. It is a pathetic thing to say, and I will not stop saying it, so that there is an identity of a process and, above all, a process, that society will also be aware of what we are discussing and voting on, with our attention turning to what society is saying. Mr President, in taking advantage of your long parliamentary experience, because I see that many times there are delayed amendments in this House, I would say that there should be some thought on amending the relevant paragraph of the Rules of Procedure, so that once normality is restored and we are enrolled by speakers up to the end of the speech by the second rapporteur, at least for the late amendments, there should be the possibility of registering only for the amendments to be tabled to the National Representation so that there can also be a reaction to these amendments. Now, as far as the bill itself is concerned, the first article is the abstention to the already expressed popular will. It is impressive that we have municipal councils, municipal authorities elected on simple analogues, and that the conservative party cannot accept it. It therefore devises various ways to the limits of the functioning of the committees, so that it applies the powers which it has in place and on the basis of which it belongs to the municipal council and passes them on to committees which it can control and with which it can choose against the selection of the municipal council and the interpretation of the choice made by the citizens in the municipal elections. I will bring to mind a very characteristic example that has dealt with us in Drama, which I have the honour of representing. The municipal council, a majority of them decided to abolish a municipal company and the mayor, based on an amendment of the law of the last minute, vetoed, i.e. vetoing. A mayor overturned the municipal council decision. I therefore call on you all to think together about where this misappropriation of the powers of the municipal council and, in fact, the improperness of citizens' rights. I will only speak about Article 56, for which I have a special concern, and I will tell you this: the Government is coming to Article 56 and wants to cover the enormous shortage of staff in detention stores. As SYRIZA, we have ensured, despite the great financial constraints, the reinforcement of security personnel. The notice of more than five hundred employees was fully entrusted to the AACC. It is the famous 6K/2018, which tears the public debate every time we talk about the need to staff the booking stores. At the same time, the additional recruitment of six hundred and thirty-nine prison employees, for example, for the Nikiforos Dramas shop, for which there is a very great anxiety and pressure. However, after twenty-one months of governance, we remain in these. The 6K notice is not complete, the external guards have not been trained and they have not started working as contractors and there is still no notice for the next six hundred sixty-nine employees. So there is no progress in the adoption of the final results of the notice and we fear that neither with this emblematic solution will we be able to achieve a substantial result. So you are giving the right to recruit with fixed-term contracts to candidates included in the provisional lists in notice 6K and have successfully completed the health examinations and sports and psychotechnical tests. We have said that there will be no result with that. And it's not just us, it's just the federation of the employees. I'll testify to the Minutes, so that there is a federation announcement, so that I can document my opinion. Therefore, there must be the adoption of the definitive results, as the organic IORP staff positions to be covered are of direct relevance to the proper functioning and safety of detention stores. We stress this, as we must bear in mind that training for this staff and vocational training will also be required so that they will be able to assume their responsibilities. I would like to point out that the personnel of external guarding other than a uniform are also armed, that is, they are armed in the performance of their service, and that is why they are obliged to train in the use of weapons before any duty is taken. With the proposed provision, therefore, the particular hostage of the candidates and the workers in the penitentiary, who continue the partial and gradual appointments and despite the fact that his proposal to complete the 6K procedure has been widely accepted, has so far not been effective. Finally, as shown in paragraph 1 of Article 56, if the provisional tables of the AACC are not revised and remain the same, then candidates who have the right to sign a 12-month contract will be numerically few, as many of them have already abandoned the 6K competition and have achieved and already work in other public sector competitions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I conclude because my time is over. I therefore believe that the majority political responsibilities are very great, precisely because a proclamation that is ready has not been completed and two additional notices are still pending. In this sense, I do not think it solves and does not address the problem of the staffing of detention centres, whether guards or external guards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. The floor now, after the Step is settled sanitary, has the MP of the New Democracy Mr. Yiannis Loverdos and then as Mr. Konstantinos Hetas said, Parliamentary spokesman for the Greek Solution. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u201	Thank you very much, Mr President. I hope that, after the end of the pandemic, this phenomenon of unrelated amendments to the various bills will be stopped, as laid down in the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament. This is an extraordinary situation which must not continue forever. I have been writing this as a journalist for years, of course, before the pandemic begins and, unfortunately, it has not been a reality so far. I hope it happens. Today, friends and friends, we are discussing a bill that one would say is in the direction that we all agree. We all want public administration controls and the fight against corruption, arbitraryness and bureaucracy of public administration. Who can come out and say something different? In essence, neither does the opposition disagree with the substance of the bill, but the way it is done and the procedure that is being carried out. If we did it, it would be good. If Vorides does it with Petsa, it's bad": This is the mentality, which I understand to a certain point, but from a point on, we must become realistic. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis came to power to bring some major changes and reforms. One of them, which will not be able to do anything, whether it is SYRIZA or any party, is to fight bureaucracy and corruption of the public. It's the most terrible thing in this country, the greatest maliciousness ever since I was a child, ever since I first entered journalism so far is bureaucracy and corruption of the public. All these years we have been discussing this and we have not been able to deal with it in its roots for all these years. Steps have been taken, such as the important step taken with the creation of the SAEP, but also there have been windows to override it. Now we come and bring a bill on the internal control system to public administration. Will this apply? The bill is in the positive direction. Is it really going to happen or will it stay on the law paper? I hope it happens. You know, it's another thing to vote for a bill and another to apply it. And well when he's in power at the Ministry of the Interior, Makis Vorides, whom I've known since he was a kid, and I know he's a man I can trust he'll do it. Tomorrow he'll change, he'll become Minister, or I don't know who. What happens in this case? Will it continue to work? It's a question we always have and a question you always have when you get a bill to vote on. For other things, the bill and its implementation in practice. We must be able to deal with this problem, the arbitrary public administration, behind it all, of the corruption of local government. I heard my good friend, Theophilus, before he said about Drama. The situation in the municipalities is drama, dear friend and colleague from Drama, and that is a big problem that we need to understand. Corruption thrives even more than central government, local government. As I assume that I have no secondary and tritology, to take time, Mr President, I shall end in the seven minutes that you have set me with the subject that is widely discussed today and that is no more than the vote of the Greeks abroad, not of the Greeks. Because I have heard my good friend, Christos Bukouros, who said earlier about expatriates, another thing is the homosexuals, another thing is that he is registered on the electoral lists and simply lives abroad at this time. I was a great supporter of the vote of the Greeks abroad, personally and of the Greeks, since they have the criteria for becoming Greek citizens, even if they are not registered on the electoral lists. For this reason, I found, when it was a year and a half ago, the bill of my friend, Takis Theodorikos, for the vote of the Greeks abroad, I found it not very bold. I found it hesitant and cowardly. I see why this happened. It was because of the reactions of the Left Party and Opposition parties in general, where it could not go through with the increased majority set by the Constitution, but nonetheless it was right. I mean, I can't understand why someone should be able to vote if he comes to Athens, but if he lives in London because he happened to be his business there, he wouldn't be able to vote. I cannot understand why he will have to prove that he has paid taxes in Greece. Another thing about voting, other things about taxes, other things about voting in Greece, another thing about voting out, as is happening in all the advanced countries of the West. That is why I think that, at last, the government brings a more substantial bill in this direction. Of course, this is where SYRIZA stepped on political, isn't it? Mrs. Jackrey should be careful what she says when she comes abroad. But what can we do? That's life, and that's politics! But now, you don't want that. Once this whole conversation has happened, you're trying to get it back. This opposition that SYRIZA makes - I won't suggest to you - is outdated, it doesn't count. I know you're afraid of the votes of the Greeks abroad, because these people, they've gone out, they've opened their eyes, they've made money, they've created, they know that the Left is a genocide, a chimera that's been through and has been destroyed everywhere in the world. Only in Greece do we still have three left parties in the House, because we are still living with memories of the past, which have been overtaken. Nowhere else in Europe and in the Western world is there just as much communism as in Greece. You know that the votes of the Greeks abroad will all be against you and that's why you're afraid of them and you don't want them to count on the result. However, whatever you do, the result will be: Greece has decided to change direction and in that direction we will continue and successfully go to make Greece a modern European democratic state, as it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u202	And we thank Mr Loverdos and the consistency of time. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, Mr Constantine Hetas, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, thank you very much. Mr Petsa, the truth is that with the change in the leadership of the Ministry of Interior, we hoped that we would also see a spirit of renewal, a spirit of modernisation, if you like, in public administration. For years we have been hearing about various objectives set by the Ministries, the Ministers responsible, for strategies, for big words, for fake big words. Especially when it comes to the public, all those who tried to get a class failed. You're gonna tell me: Shouldn't we try? I wish you could achieve the twin and put in order what no one has done in the past fifty years. If Vorides and Petsas can make it, it will applaud all Greece. He's not gonna do anything else. But be careful, because I can see you step on it, like the others. I am not going to enter the process, Mr Ministers, now remind me of the tragic shortages that exist in staff, especially in services, if you wish, first line. I shall refer, for example, to the tragic situation in the ECA, with thousands of pensioners waiting. Anyway! I shall say, however, something we have already pointed out as Greek Solution, the very important thing to know, Mr Voridis and Mr Petsas, where this rhetoric begins and ends the public rhetoric. So the proposal of the Greek Solution from the previous bills we have been discussing since last year was to digitally identify the public on a digital map - make it a little picture - which will illustrate how many public services there are and what the exact number of employees, which is very - very important. You don't. Move and legislate on the basis of how it suits you and I'll tell you why. What are you doing now? You use the data - there is no case - weaknesses and the many problems of the public and everything that exists in services as a pretext and as an excuse. So, on the occasion of this, I legislate and develop my clientele. That's what you're doing. The previous ones did it. It's no big deal! Don't think you have the exclusive. So do what the previous ones did, what their predecessors did, who also found them and continued them from those who succeeded in power. That's the way it went. Sleeve-sleeve was on the job. A life of the same things and all of these are your own political ancestors, because you have roots too, as a New Democracy and as a government. And of course, the apple falls under the apple. The rotten apple under rotten apples. Because that is the only way this customer policy can be characterised, for example by hiring individuals. We're not against private individuals at all. As a party we have said that we can also do business with individuals, there is no problem. But can't this huge state, this giant, that has so much staff, respond and we have to hire private people all the time? So we're useless in a few words. Mr. Loverdos said before about the "mother" of the government. But another decomposition of the public will lead to this daring internal control system. And the conclusion is one: All these creations make the public even more bureaucratic and weaken it. And can I tell you something else, Mr. Voridis? This also has a financial burden, that is to say it involves a financial burden on the government, on the budget. This budget is torn apart, that is. And because we are talking about a state budget burden, this bill shows you the great weakness you have - we allergy, you weakness - in the independent authorities, which are thirty-two, twenty-seven and five equals thirty-two. Take a look at that, Mr. Voridis, this. Five presupposes the Constitution. The other twenty-seven independent authorities what are they doing? So who commands - not government - who runs the public? Who runs the interior of the country, the independent authorities? Over EUR 1 million costs the independent authorities in our country, in our budget, in our pockets. And they do the work that the government, the ministers and the MPs should do. So the work that Parliament must do is done by the independent authorities. Thirty-two! Five says the Constitution. More than 500 million is costing only the AIA, which has been planted by the troika here and by the Germans, and has been here for many years, and all the others around 600 million euros a year, to pay the independent authorities to which you will also set up an internal control team! Are they not independent authorities by definition independent and corrupt? But by definition it is. If it's not, say it. And because you're saying a lot about the vote of the faculty, the relatives, etc., that's fine, but I'm asking you something: The state says it's all the time, aren't you? 'The state has a continuity', that is what you keep saying. Isn't your party state all the time? For yesterday in committee, Mr Voridis, you said: 'Let's leave what the previous speakers have done, now I am the Minister', you said. But a year ago we voted for the vote and we supported you and said 'yes'. We are in favour of the Greeks voting, without any preconditions, all the ones you put in a year ago. Not you, because we said, the party state doesn't keep up, the state keeps going. Your predecessor, your government, however, put them in your party. And we said, "Get them out, don't make life difficult for them, put people, the Greeks of the earth, to vote." Oh, no. Now you're doing what we told you a year ago and you're celebrating by righting us. It's good to hear such voices. Of course the Greek Solution is in favour, it was our proposal from the first moment, we are still discussing it from the revision of the Constitution, then when the bill came up until now, we will always say it: the right to vote on Greek homosexuals. We said the party state does not keep up, but the state in general does keep up. I mean, Prespes, for example, Mr. Voridis, and you know, the weather weighs, the weather goes fast, April, May, the conventions will come here. Hardly. It's a tough equation. And for you personally, I would very much like you to tell us what you are going to do and what attitude you will take, to tell us at some point who will be the rapporteur for these Memorandums with Skopje and who will be the one to sign it from New Democracy, underneath which will say "North Macedonia" in Skopje, the neo-democratics. Because that is where the state keeps going, but in other things it doesn't keep going. Now for SYRIZA, what to say. What can anyone really say? You as first-timers fucked up, like old-fashioned, unscrupulous ones. Why don't you want the Greeks to vote? I don't really understand it. Shouldn't the Greek who lives abroad vote? I was a child of migrants, I was born and grew up in Germany 11 years, my parents honestly worked out, we remembered and we were on the boat, Bridezi - Barry - Igoumenitsa, we were voting, we were leaving. Why would the Greek not be able to vote from there, I don't understand. If you suggest it. Vertigo, a state of salt really, thanks you do, you put your entire self-government. Now, Minister, I will leave public administration and internal affairs a little, and I will go for two-three minutes on important issues. I'll deal with this suffering that troubles us every day and it's the coronary. Every day that passes, it fully confirms, and with regard to the objections we have had and to the reluctance we have had. And you know what? This one with the vaccines, time is time, one hour is an hour, six months is six months, you can't compress them, you can't compress the time, you can't make six months for them a month. It can't be, Mr. Colleague, it can't be. So for a vaccine to be safe - last year I remember Velopoulos saying it here - it takes a while, we are cautious, we express our concerns. So any side effect now is the result of rush. Rapidity is understood, but it's the result of haste. But you know, all this is measured in victims and human lives. Why did he stop? Question. Since they are all good, why did the JOHNSON vaccination stop in the United States? So there's a problem. Because, like all vaccines, it's in phase 3. What's phase 3? He's licensed under conditions, he's still at initial stage, he hasn't been in the end. With only six incidents - listen a little - of which only one lethal one was stopped. A deadly one, they stopped it. We order. All countries stop it, we received today, we applauded, we got it. In Denmark - a moment ago, you will see - the administration of 'ASTRAZENECA' is permanently stopped. No later than then, the administration of 'ASTRAZENECA' in Denmark has been definitively terminated. Now you want to do the country and its citizens, the Greeks, experimental animals, tell us. Say it, guys. The Americans have decided to suspend vaccination until the independent complication monitoring committee decides. These are facts, not Velopoulos, not the Greek Solution, I don't say them. These are facts. A sad situation with ‘JOHNSON’ and ‘ASTRAZENECA’. It's similar, you know? They are due to the adenovirus, the vector of the two vaccines. Why does Greece not show the same responsibility? Question. And because we brought evidence and regular evidence, Mr. Brutsi, not like the Prime Minister, investigations that it really doesn't fit, that we never saw. We have regular investigations. I'll testify to her in the Minutes, get her, too. Here's the investigation, it's here. In the end, I'll testify. Only one in a thousand cases - listen - one in a thousand cases of COVID -19 was transmitted abroad. All this time we call 'Open them', with meters, my doctor, distances. Greece is, the worst cold in Athens has 10 degrees. Get the world out, go around, walk, take a breath, drink a coffee, go to work. You shut them in. You guessed them inside. And you made it a recycling system, it would stick to each other, it would stick to each other. Demonstration of the minimum risk, therefore, this research into the transmission of the virus to the outer space. On the basis of this investigation, the Irish are subsidising companies - here's what the Irish are doing now - to develop tables outside. We have it all, joy of God here Greece, and we don't do it, we all shut up. They encourage outside exercise, recommend distances of one and a half meters. Again, we are entitled to everything we say. Here's the investigation. Out, guys. Get people out. You're driving him crazy. Mr Petsa and Mr Voridis - I will close with this, Mr President - a little while ago I was at the Ministry of Migration in a meeting with the Minister, Mr Mitarakis, and they were representatives of all the parties, on the issue of the new Immigration Pact, European Immigration Pact, which is now a fairy tales of Halima. Will Europe now solve, with the European Immigration Pact, the problem of illegal immigration in Greece? These things can't be done. I made something clear to Mr. Metarakis. I told him and I'll tell him here, too, that we have every reason to bail on politics, we have every reason and every right to have confrontation, different ideology, different arguments, everything. But there is no Minister from the government who is entitled to mock Members, lie in Parliament and behave like this at the National Representation. Because he's lied a lot. I told him, one, two, three, four. And for NGOs, hosting illegal immigrants, and for structures on the islands, which will be closed and well, and a whole lot of things. We have tabled our proposals to him. No European Union will help us. The European Union is giving money. What's he telling you? "Take millions, keep them there so they don't come on us and everything's fine." No one is going to save us unless we first cut the incentives and the benefits. Mr. Hatzidakis cannot earn a national pension of EUR 380 for the poor man who worked forty years honestly in Greece and go with the bourga and handkerchief every first month and make 500 euros from the bank while illegally entering my country. You guys can't do that. It can't be done. How to do it. You cannot give him free accommodation with the programs "ELIOS" and "EXTIA". It can't be that your dermaty is how you're gonna put them into employment programs and how you're gonna get them into society. I mean, these are motives that if you cut them, they won't come. "Block the NGOs, Mr. Metarakis," I told him. "Why don't you do it?". You told us here, Mr Petsa, a while ago that the NGOs would be controlled. It's four hundred so many. The darnards of this story are the NGOs. What are they doing? European money. They attract illegals across the street, promise them the land of the promise, bring them here, take the cut, take care of them. Half of it is illegal. The government doesn't control them and the NGOs do it. And none of them - not to describe them - saw and saw in Elassona in the earthquakes of Greeks. No NGO. There's no shortcut there. There's no money, no European marmita, no money. There's nothing there. NGO humanists. So you're ending this story. I'm closing, Mr. President. When we were told you were building a concrete wall in Evros, it seemed extremist and absolute. Now you're making something like a fence. There's something about nothing. Take out and withdraw what you're doing. We told him today, Mr. Metarakis. It's unacceptable to our Evros. In villages where three hundred last Greeks live in the sixty and seventy years, holding Thermopylae on our border on the back of the Greek army, to plant a thousand five hundred Muslims. Inadmissible things. Don't you realize that we have a duty on our children to deliver our homeland unscathed? Understand it and make the decisions you have to make. No Europe will save our country. Alone. Bring them all to uninhabited islands with human structures. To live in human life, not in the muds and scenes that you have left them. Until their case is finalised, they will see if they are entitled to asylum and go to the wish of the Virgin Mary and we will rest. Keep our borders, put life on the poachers, strict legislation, close the NGOs that do the whole game to see a white day. Otherwise millions will come from Europe and Greece will be the victim of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u204	Minister Petsas has asked for an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President. I asked for the floor in relation to what Mr Hetas said. I'll be very brief. Mr. Heta, Immigration and Asylum Minister has invited you to inform you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u206	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u207	You have said a delegation of Members from all parties. He invited you to be briefed. And you went up to Stepma and said she lied to you. But I didn't hear you say. You made a political position for what you believe. But it seems you do not like that flows have been reduced so much in recent years. Last year there has been a overwhelming decline in flows, more than 90%. You don't like the fence made in the southern part of the Evros region to better protect our borders. So you do not like the fact that we guard our own borders and Europe. You don't like what happened in the Castanes. You may not like Mr. Metarakis. But the government's policy is specific. We have committed ourselves to Greek citizens, we guard our borders, we have the way to protect sovereignty and sovereign rights every time, but also to guard the acquis communautaire. And where there are issues of circumvention, we always find solutions with our partners. From there on, if you don't like what Mr. Mitarakis told you, you should at least have the courage not to call him a liar but say thank you for informing you. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u209	I want a minute, Mr President, to lie to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u210	No, no. No intervention. You said your opinion. You got the answer. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Because I was also in this meeting at the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, I would simply say that what we already knew does not guarantee the interests of the country or of the islands, unfortunately it still remains. There is a great deal of work ahead of us, too many negotiations with the European Union, so that we can adapt it somehow to the interests of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that an internal audit mechanism cannot be fully independent of the head of the audited body. The head of a large organization has every interest in knowing what is happening to the administration body. This is why the last individual employee is intervening an entire bureaucracy which often obscures reality. In its ideal form internal control is a means of reconciling the administration. When it works properly everyone comes out: the head, the administration, and above all the citizens. On the other hand, however, there must be guarantees of independence from the audit body to the head since we cannot rule out the possibility that he himself benefits from opaqueness. Your bill, Minister, does not guarantee this balance since the members of both the internal control unit and the audit committee, which is supposed to guarantee the independence of the former, are appointed by the head of the institution. And I'm surprised that in the phrase you use in the bill you're not talking about an appointment. You say abstractly'recommend'. One has to go to the explanatory statement to see that they are appointed by the head. This dependency may be justified in the private sector where the head of an undertaking does not normally turn against the interests of the undertaking which it manages. In the public sector, however, it is not excluded that the head does not serve the public interest. In his deliberations before the committee, the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, addressed us with the reproach that since we do not vote in principle for this bill, it means that we reject the establishment of internal control and the integrity adviser. That would be true if the bill had a start. But here we see that the principles of the bill are at least two. Because there is also a regulation on independent authorities which abolishes the rule of the six-year non-renewable term of office of members, as well as the arrangement with further economic committees of the municipalities to the detriment of municipal councillors. It is of great importance both arrangements so that we can say that the main object of the bill is actually to lose its centre of gravity. Because, as usual, the bill infringes the fundamental provision of Article 74(5) of the Constitution which prohibits a bill from entering into discussion if it contains provisions which are irrelevant to its main purpose. It is good to remember some time that this is true. In order to be able to justify our vote, too. Unfortunately, the regulation on the independent authorities once again proves that the ruling majority has an intolerance. A first glimpse of intolerance towards the independent authorities we have received in the constitutional revision of Article 101A of the Constitution. On the initiative of today's parliamentary majority, the majority of 4/5 of the Members of the Conference of Presidents has been reduced to 3/5. In addition, the explicit urgement of the constitutional legislator to the Conference of Presidents to seek unanimity in the appointment of members of the independent authorities has been removed. And with the new regulation, the simple arithmetic leads us to conclude that if a member of an independent authority is elected to the Conference of Presidents, even one representative of the smaller parties will be required to join the majority. We support this as well for today's regulation. It is hypocritical that, in the rapporteur's report, the phrase ‘in order to remove any question, in the interests of legal certainty, it is possible that an already member of the independent authority may be appointed to a higher grade than that of the same authority for full term’. We are talking about Law 3051/2002, as we are talking about today. He has no margin of doubt that a member of the independent authority can go to the same authority only for a term of no matter what grade. This, however, says that in Article 1(2) itself, which states that 'for the purposes of applying this law as members of an independent authority, they are all to be found, presidents, vice presidents, alternates and simple members'. Where, then, this law speaks of members, it means everyone. Therefore, when a little below Article 3(2) stipulates that "the term of office of members is six years without renewal", the legislature means that all members are entitled to only one term regardless of the grade. That's what Mr.3051 means, so you don't come to take any doubts. Adopt a new provision. As the legislator in the recital of 4055/2012 that established the six-year exclusive term informs us, this was established with the aim of strengthening the personal independence of members, which is stated in the explanatory statement in recital 4055. They will not therefore be looking forward to a renewal of their term of office. It is therefore necessary to conclude that your rule should apply in particular when renewing is accompanied by an upgrade. It is absolutely inappropriate that a member's term of office should be extended to the same grade, but that a new full term should be allowed to run at higher grades. And yet you're the one who inserts this arrangement. It does not, therefore, need to have any divining skills to see that this provision will poison the atmosphere within the multi-successful independent authorities, since their members will now be struggling at who the majority will be chosen to promote it, as appropriate, as President, Vice-President or Vice-President. As a member of the old one-faced independent authority, I tell you that I believe that this provision will be very bad. With people we are also dealing with ambitions in Greece. A small exception to Rule 56, Mr President. You will allow me to say that the problem of prisons is not solved by Article 56 and by the regulation it makes for 6K/2018. The provisional AACC tables should be reviewed. As things stand with regulation, at the moment they are serving with the eight-month contracts two hundred-five contractors ICs and one third of them will be found out of them as failures. I am closing down with Article 38 on the additional delegation of powers to the economic committee of the municipalities. We've been through this, and we've been through it before. I no longer say that for the majority. Repeatedly, it has brought us similar provisions. I'm talking about the Civic Opposition, so we can learn a few lessons. [[At this point, the speaking time bell of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. When the simple analogue was introduced to the municipalities, what we have been saying since is that you have been building a monastery, a giant with clay feet, a mayor who could not form a majority within municipal councils and that in this way, when New Democracy came to power, since it could not change the composition of municipal councils, it would change the system of governance of the municipalities. What you have unfortunately managed to do with the simple analogue was ultimately to dismantle the municipal councils and indirectly impose a system of authoritarian, anti-democratic governance on the municipalities of the country. Let this be a lesson for the future. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr. Kamin. I would ask the President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Varoufakis, to prepare a health check, so that the President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Varoufakis, can speak. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, before I came, I was walking to Patisia and a shopkeeper stopped me. I think it's important that I give you what he said to me. I asked him how they feel, how they feel, in what state psychologically they are. It tells me: "We are like futures that a euro throws us on the floor, we do not have the courage to lift it." It's his words. It's important that we know in here how our people feel out there. It is important that you, at least, understand that the world, a large proportion of our world, of our people out there, have lost hope and worse is that they do not believe the government. The largest capital in pandemic, emergency conditions, is the credibility of the state, is the confidence of the citizens that what the state tells them is in the right direction and hope is there. We warned you, when the pandemic started 13 months ago, "Preparate for the escape from the horizontal measures". And that wasn't a generalology, it was something very specific. We were talking about a network of mass test centres that would allow out of the lockdowns within one or two months of the first lockdown. And we told you "Our world out there won't last much longer for the horizontal measures, the lockdowns. He will cease to believe you, listen to you, count you." That's where we are now. The result is that in the country's fourth bankruptcy - bankruptcy of a state, banks, households and businesses - a fifth bankruptcy has been added, the government's credibility with regard to health measures against pandemic. And this is a tragedy for all of us. I don't say it with any opposition or joy. The citizen is currently unable to understand the logic of the measures, because you forbid him a lonely ride at four o'clock in the morning, but it's OK. stacking in buses and being in supermarkets with another five hundred people. Because he can go, when they open up now, with the opening, the "Mall" or the "IKEA", but he can't go to the neighborhood bookstore. Because it should send sms to go somewhere, when no one looks at these sms, only if we exclude some 'Palandir' which trade personal data. The only ones it helps are them. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, people laugh out there, since they can still laugh at the absurdity of these measures. You are making announcements now and the Prime Minister is also taking place and they are not being taken seriously. And I say that with soul pain, because it matters when the state speaks in times of pandemic, people listen. But you have wasted this great chapter of people's confidence. We told you, I'll say it once again: mass tests, smart applications. There should be in every neighborhood a gas station with a bucket where you can go run a test, come to you after four, five hours - as long as it takes - the result of the test on your cell phone and this should be a form of certification as to whether you're negative or positive at that time and whether you can be released. We talked about this 13 months ago. Instead of what did you do? Suppression. Sms, night traffic bans. And now, thirteen months later, instead of this network of mass test centers, we have the alibi of total failure with so-called self test, a terrible alibi! It's no alternative to self test, self test, on the network of mass test centers you didn't set, which we've been telling you for thirteen months to set up. Remember last summer's tourism? What were we talking about? Molecular testing seventy hours ago for each visitor in Greece and rapid test at the entrance. Mr. Mitsotakis was pitiful in an algorithm, which proved to be a fraud. The Prime Minister was deceived by the one who sold him the algorithm or who gave it to him. It doesn't matter. And I remember here the Prime Minister flouting and mocking the Mera25, saying, "Oh, you don't want the billions of tourism." Finally, we did not get the billions of tourism, and we also had an increase in the viral load. This year, at least, will we have a mandatory molecular test seventy-two hours ago for every one who comes with a rapid test at the entrance? It'll be a crime not to do that. And we come to the final blow to any credibility you have left. I mentioned it before, I'll say it one more time. Is it possible for the ‘Ikea’ to function and the neighborhood shop not to function? How much more will you impose on our people what is imposed on you by the owners of the various "Ikea" and "Malls" against the interests of the mass of the Greek people? I know you have undertakings that you will submit to them. So the question now comes back - it is a more general, rhetorical question - and this is how much more will you be tolerated by the small and medium-sized ones who keep them closed when you open the various 'Ikeas' and 'Malls'? The answer is, not for long. There can be no other answer. Ladies and gentlemen, in Mera25 we put above all health and immediately after protecting the financially vulnerable, the economically weaker. Thirteen months after the outbreak of the pandemic, it is now clear that you are - this government - a real threat to both public health and economic pandemic in terms of vulnerable people. Thirteen months after the outbreak of the pandemic is now clear - we are told epidemiologists from all countries - that these horizontal measures no longer have the potential - and we see it from the epidemiological data - to prevent the second, third, fourth wave. The virus is now basically transmitted to the workplace and, of course, into the homes, which young people in particular gather because they have no place to find. With this data, Mera25 suggests the immediate abolition of measures of unreasonable state repression which only affect the credibility of the state and do nothing to stop the transmission of the virus. Finally, at the sms. Remove them. Finally, the ban on night walks of individual people. Intensify protection measures, in particular social distance, on the basis of the principle that the multi-shops, 'ICE' and 'Malls' should also apply to small and medium-sized enterprises. Open focus on outdoors. You can't be in Aristotle Square, being on each other in the square and not being allowed to focus on outdoors to offer a coffee. Also, tourism yes, but arrival after a molecular test seventy-two-hour maximum and rapid at the entrance. And we will not get tired of demanding this: at last, build this network of public mass testing centres, which can well be made of vaccination centres and stay as a dowry for the primary care of the National Health System. I now go to the second part, to the second dimension, to the parallel dimension of the pandemic, which concerns the economic collapse of everyone out there who feel like that man I met on Patisian Street just before. Ladies and gentlemen, the private and public debt will either cut it off or drown that country. We're not going to make it through borrowing. No bankrupt has gone beyond bankruptcy through loan. Neither will the Greek State go beyond it with credit as low as interest rates, nor will the suspensions and prolongations and deferrals of private sector debt payments, which cannot be repaid to the state, to the insurance funds and to the banks, and new loans can help the bankrupt private bankrupt. Two words about public debt. You're pretending - I don't know if, really, you've convinced yourself - that there's no problem with public debt. The public debt is, it says, sustainable. He said it, he says, and the ESSM. Hey, what's he gonna say? It's like currency devaluations in countries that still have their national currency. They've never been proclaimed. Never! Always the Minister of Finance of a country planning currency devaluation refuses to do so until it does. That makes sense. The same is true of the new prolongation of Greek loans, with the new financing of the public debt as it is not viable. It will not be announced, but as long as you do not prepare and prepare as a Greek society for the restructuring of the Greek public debt, both when the Greek debt comes, it will come in terms that will condemn the Greek people in a new decade of deep and deeper bankruptcy, just as happened with the PSI in 2012, just as is done with every Memorandum. I would like to draw your attention here, especially to the Members of Parliament and Members of the New Democracy - because I do not know if you are following them or if you are interested - and to tell you about the three dozen, because I am not sure that you are talking about them among you. The public debt is borne daily without even being told as Members and MPs of the New Democracy. This is something that, in addition to the differences between us, should have drawn attention to your problematic relationship with the Ministry of Finance. You Members of the New Democracy are loading the Greek people with billions of new debts without knowing it. If you know and agree, it's good. But you know that for the three dozen? The first dozen may have heard of it. At least you've heard it from me, because I say it again. It is the 12 billion that this government will go to the troika in a very short time, to give it to the "parallel" funds of the "HRAKLE". You have committed yourself to the "HRAKLE" you voted on, that you will get 12 billion from the troika, from Mr. Reggling, to give it to the funds. You know that. And if you don't know, find out. It's necessary to know that. You've given a public guarantee. And it's not just Barofakis anymore. Stournaras says that this public guarantee will be activated. You may be quiet, sleep quietly that they won't be activated. Good. Consider it at least. Don't just hear them say it won't be activated. It'll be activated. It can't be activated. Think here: We have 10 to 13 billion red loans. When the offer is increased on the secondary market of the ‘ERAKLE’ of red loans, their price falls. You have guaranteed specific prices in the 'parallel' funds and you have guaranteed them that you will get 12 billion from Mr Reggling to give them if they do not secure their profits. You've done it. The question is, do you know that? Look into it. That's the first dozen. There are another 12 billion from the Recovery Fund. Mr Mitsotakis brought us from the Recovery Fund - when they come, of course, there is not even a single euro - in aid and 12.7 billion loans. The Ministry of Finance is planning - and this has been requested by Brussels, we have learned from Brussels - that we did not learn from this government, of course, but they do not deny it, even in the recent presentation of 'Greece 2.0', that the 12.7 billion will be loans that private companies will receive - large, obviously not small - with a public guarantee. Therefore, 12.7 billion will be guaranteed by you as Members and MPs of the New Democracy to companies. These are added to the loan of the Greek State. And it's the third dozen. I don't know if you're watching it. The Quantitative Relaxation Programme provides that the 23 billion bonds of the Greek State, which the European Central Bank has already bought, will be added to the additional 12 billion that it will buy in 2021. This is why interest rates are being kept low. Let this go if it's good or bad. Do you know what it means? It means that by the end of 2021 another 12 billion Greek debt will be in the European Central Bank. In other words, your Government - whoever is in the government - will depend on the good will of the European Central Bank and indirectly on the good will of Berlin and the German Constitutional Court of Karlsruhe as to whether the European Central Bank will at some point be forced to sell these things, which you know what it means. It means that the loan rates of the Greek State will suddenly increase over-the-counter. These are the three dozen. The Greek public debt, ladies and gentlemen, has always been unsustainable since 2010. Today it's even less sustainable than it was. As the debate on the restructuring of the Greek public debt is delayed, its 'cut', the deeper our debt-partnership, the more the hands are bound behind the Minister of Finance, whoever it is, as far as the fifth memorandum comes, the closer the 'cut' of supplementary pensions and main pensions comes. Here we are, here you are. You can't say you didn't hear that. We go to the Recovery Fund, since I mentioned it, since every time the government wants to give a note of optimism. And we need the point of optimism, I have no doubt. Our people out there on Patisia Street, Tsimiki Street, on every street and corner of the earth, this Greek land, need this optimism. But on what basis? On the basis of realism or the basis of populism? Here's the question. We've studied the Recovery Fund. We'll have the conversation sometime for the Recovery Fund. But it deserves a quick report, since I referred to the public debt. Greece 2.0, ladies and gentlemen, is a long - economically insignificant one. As much as billions are, it is not a counterbalance for the actual dynamics it has started, which existed before the pandemic, it has accelerated with the pandemic and it will continue afterwards. As to where these many billions of the Recovery Fund will be spent, which is essentially an enhanced NRP, no plans have you submitted, ladies and gentlemen of the government, for green development in that country, in that state. There is no complete plan for the new 'green' industries which will replace, for example, lignite. There is no plan for the production and distribution of hydrogen, which will be the fuel of the future. The only shots are to buy what's on the market, like wind turbines from Germany, digital platforms ready, as you've been doing all this time, by direct assignment. In other words, low added value. Because there is no plan for a green industrial revolution in this country, which is financed by the Recovery Fund, it is ensured that what you buy will be brought out, it will be imported, you will be charged not only the debt, but the country's balance of payments, with little added value. Where are the wind turbines producing factories in Greece? Where are the hydrogen production and distribution plants in Greece, Ptolemais, Megalopolis, which should be to help move these societies into the context of ligniteification? Nowhere. Many, under the umbrella of the fifth Memorandum, which is under way, "Greece 2.0", ladies and gentlemen of the government, recalls a little "Black 2.0". And bridges eat and rivers eat, all that has not been a development program built and completed. I now come to the other great void left by the monumental bipartisanism. Yesterday I heard SYRIZA's proposals very carefully and with good will and I read very carefully today and the texts that accompanied the SYRIZA's financial programme. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, there is once again a complete mismatch of those who are proposing, for example 'haircuts', a reduction in VAT. That is all we have been talking about since March last year. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter who said it first. You do well to talk about it. However, there is a complete mismatch between these positives you are proposing and the Tsipra leadership commitment not to break with the Troika, with the Eurogroup, which is a prerequisite for what you are saying. In other words, let me just say it. You are talking about first home protection and private debt haircuts. How's that gonna happen? With HERAKLE or without HERAKLE? Because with HERAKLE can't be done. Here the New Democracy is at least sincere. What are they saying? No private debt haircuts, ERAKLIS is fine, "run", will undo the loans from the banking system to the "parallel" funds, solve the problem. It's honest. They destroy Greece with this "HRAKLI" but do not pretend to be cut to make "cut" to private debt or to protect the first residence. They tell you about the protection of the first home: Stay a few years, you'll pay a rent that will impose on you and we'll get you the house and everything you've paid for will be lost. They're honest in this misanthropic policy. You're not honest. You're talking about protecting the first home, but you're not saying stop selling red loans. I have told you before and I have caused you to say: we will abolish HERAKLE. So to discuss this and we will create what we are saying in a public red loan management company on specific terms. That's the program of Mera25. Do you have anything like that? You don't have one. You want to say yes to everything in the troika and promise to your world, our world, our people out there who suffer, who fear that they will lose their home, their little mamaguana tomorrow, that you will protect them. How will you protect them when you do not commit to abolishing the sale of the red loans to the "paracists", the purchase of these predators? "Mavroyalouros 2.0" is the New Democracy and "Thessaloniki 2.0 Programme" you. Just as the Thessaloniki program of September 2014 promised things that required the break, which Mr. Tsipras proved to have never intended to do, that is exactly what you did with yesterday's program. And you know what? Nothing will please me any more than prove I'm not right. You Government prove to me that I'm not right. Let Mr Mitsotakis come out and commit today that, while he is Prime Minister, no supplementary pension will be cut. It is actually committed that what I am saying is that the fifth memorandum is a given, is not so. Make a commitment, ladies and gentlemen, that no supplementary pension will be paid as long as you are a government. Let me hear it. And you, of SYRIZA, commit that if you become a government, you will abolish the 'HRAKLE'. You haven't done it by now. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u214	And we thank Mr. Varoufakis. We continue with the Deputy of the New Democracy Mr. George Kotsos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law on democracy, transparency and the efficiency of the public sector. This is because for us, for the New Democracy, the public sector, public administration, it can and must be directly in line with the requirements of our day, it can be free from phenomena of corruption and maladministration, in particular with respect for and better service to citizens and society. We support and trust a public sector that is a worthwhile, flexible, less bureaucratic, which rewards the consistency, labour and efficiency of employees. After all, the more flexible the public sector is, the more it will contribute to the economic and social development of our country. The internal audit procedure in the public administration is therefore one of the key elements in improving its framework and operating procedures. Exploiting it through monitoring, valuation and redesigning the way in which the public authorities organise it will result in modern and efficient administration. In addition, internal control worldwide is an objective advisory activity, a strategic pillar and a tool to safeguard and support the administration in order to achieve its objectives with the greatest possible efficiency, achieving the maximum possible effect at the minimum time. We believe in this, and that is why after Law 4622/2019 for the ultimate state was self-evident and expected the evolution of the current draft law, in order to introduce modern methods of improving governance in public administration. Our consistency in legislating is, moreover, something that characterises our Government throughout this period. Thus, more specifically, this draft law defines the development and functioning of the national internal audit system. In other words, it is an internal control unit which provides an independent assurance that all systems, as well as the security controls, are properly operated by all operators, an audit which assesses the organisation systems and the functioning of them. It is preventive and advisory and strengthens good governance. Obviously, we are not talking about control with a punishable or repressive character, but of a healing control, which prevents problems that afflict the functioning of the public sector and the agencies. For the first time, the institution of the integrity adviser, who will inform and support employees in matters of ethics and integrity at the workplace, is introduced. The consultant will address these issues in turn in order to prevent the derailment of unwanted situations. We are holistic about any malfunctions that have occurred in local government lately, such as mobility, evaluation, extensions of property leases due to the COVID pandemic, in order to address the adverse effects on entrepreneurship and to support local economies. We are strengthening the powers of the Economic Commission to respond to the great problem that went to be created in local government because of the mere analogy, a law which could have ensured representativeness over the electorate, but in no case did it ensure efficiency and governance at the level of local government. And, of course, it is not possible to make the municipal authority and the mayor herd and submarine of minority groups, because in this way, only we will have an endless debate without solutions at the expense of local society at the expense of the citizens. The main question, ladies and gentlemen, is what kind of public sector we want. Do we want a public administration system that responds to the greatest possible extent and to the minimum amount of time to the demands and needs and issues posed by the citizens? Do government agencies need qualified assistance from certified consultants? Do local authorities need effective operation? The new age of things we are living in, but also the resources of the Recovery Fund that are expected to be given to our country, requires plan, speed, flexibility, efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a strategy that will mark a change of attitude, a change of attitude, a change of attitude, a change of attitude, an adaptation of attitudes to the new data, an adaptation to the requirements of our fellow citizens. We are changing from powerless, skeptical, suspicious administration to a rapid, effective, transparent, but above all friendly public administration to the citizen, a public administration that builds mutual understanding and trust in society. We must therefore move forward, remove any weaknesses, form practices that will lead us to a better tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u216	We too thank Mr Kotsos and the consistency of time. The floor is now for the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelos, and immediately after the speech, Minister Petsas will be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, and in this bill, is no escape from the besieged. What do we got? A pretext for control and integrity, some fragmentary and superficial arrangements for the essential and major ones - which is indeed a serious issue and the control issues - and many 'photographic' provisions and services that are hidden under the pretext. I have to say here, Minister, that we also have to move it to Mr Voridis, because there is, first of all, a whole range of emblems, especially in the last chapters, which have nothing to do with the title and which has many in secret regulation. While the draft law in consultation came out with thirty-four articles, on the committees it came with sixty-five, on the first amendments it took twenty-two, that is, eighty-seven. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] I wish you two a bit, Mr. Pecha, but you don't actually call that a state. You're finally deceiving it. But also in this bill, we have many heirly provisions under the heading of internal control and integrity, but I must say that for Mr Mitsotakis' right-wing political perception and Mr Vorides' right-wing political perception it is very hypocritical for you to speak of integrity. Are you talking about integrity with millions of direct assignments in the middle of a pandemic, while forgetting the pain and injustice in society? With the truffles you're doing, while you abolished the ASA to many organisations, and this in the midst of a pandemic? With the "dehydration" of services and institutions, where staff are constantly falling and the public is constantly weakening? Or should we talk about authoritarianism and the restriction of democratic functions and of the House? Nice integrity! Such integrity? "The State of Right" is called this, not called integrity and control. But in internal control too, I have to say that it is a chatter. First of all, this issue has been started for too many years. It has been 15 years since we have been discussing it. But I want to tell you that in 2019 internal control units were set up as independent departments in all ministries. Did you evaluate them? You haven't brought this to the bill. This draft law does not address the problem of multiple control mechanisms. They do not even regulate the issues of cooperation for the main sectors of self-government, where there is a question of control. Let me ask you a question, Mr. Pecha. You'll take the floor after and you have the authority. Please tell us what you have done for the beginning of the supervising of the municipalities in decentralised administrations. We want you to tell us what your government has done. Do you know that? Do you know if it's been activated? Because if you had the slightest sensitivity to control matters, you would at least tell us what is going on with the existing control bodies. You don't care about control, Mr. Pecha. They're hypocritically all you're doing. What do you care? What the bill says. You are interested in serving these structures with "blue" children, and that is what you are doing. You're doing it out of your mind. You have, for example, no provision for meritful and transparent procedures in the staffing of units. The procedure, but by the commander - says - of the National Transparency Authority which is Mr Mitsotakis' personal choice is not guaranteed for the Heads of State or Government. Good! It is what we call the 'right-wing state' once again. Finally, you are building a mechanism of the New Democracy and you call it "control", to scare the officials, to apply what Mr Vorides wanted to do not have his ideas, not to have his views, to limit the production of ideas and knowledge, because that is what you want. Afraid of progressive thought. Mr Vorides has said so officially: 'We must not allow the Left, the progressive ideas to be reproduced'. You do not want any different viewpoint and you do an autocratic mechanism with 'your own children'. You know, Mr Petsa, this is the real far right, that is what Alt - Right is saying in Europe's far right. And now you follow the steps. But you are consistently making your other "good news", too, privatize internal control. In other words, you are allowing civil servants outside the public sector to exercise control over civil servants and, in particular, the Ottas, who are left with their second-hand staff, to go to natural or legal persons by decision of the mayor. So privatization and 'our blue children' to control employees. However, since we are talking about OTAs, about municipalities, I cannot avoid a comment on Article 38, that is, on another step taken by the Mitsotakis Government and, in particular, Mr Vorides and Mr Petsas in order to limit democracy to self-government. That is, they carry - if I am not mistaken - the responsibilities of the municipal council and of the citizens to the Economic Committee for the seventh time, which do not reflect the true proportion of the citizens and their votes and thus remove from the municipal councils elected by simple proportional and other responsibilities. And now beware of wisdom: Mr Vorides - and he must be ashamed of this - of the first committee and told us that we are giving the majority the decision on the municipality. So let's see: Is it true? I will tell you three examples from my area. Municipality of Thessaloniki: The mayor elected took the first 15% round. So you give 15% of what it will do not only to the remaining 85% who have voted, but also to those who have not voted. Secondly, in Kalamaria Municipality 23.5%, i.e. 23.5% will decide - the current mayor, with a 60% majority - but the institutions for all the rest. Do you want to say for the second of Thessaloniki, where am I from? Municipality of Thermaikos, 29%. In other words, Mr Vorides gives the right - and let him say what lies with this beautiful style of reasoning and wisdom he has, whatever lies he says - to 29% to decide majority on all other citizens. And they come after New Democracy MPs and tell us that they can't be the mayors' ballots. So societies will be the ballot of minority mayors, 15%, 23%, 29%, which is also blue. But the bill goes further than that. It abolishes the public and opens - if you like - big windows to dismantle public money. It is not just Article 48 that gives contractors the right to sign, which tells practically the mayors "you will never serve the public and the municipalities, you will never get engineers, I give the eight-month engineers the right to sign" - which also has issues of unconstitutionality - but practically takes all decisions out of the municipalities - development companies and structures - which, while playing an important role in development, now make shops of officials of the New Democracy, as is the case in the Second Thessaloniki. Because the central executives of the New Democracy are responsible for the development to entrust the technical programme of the municipalities outside the processes of municipality. Therefore, not only privatization, but also opacity to public money. They will share their jobs with contractors on the basis of party identities, they will get them all to go to the elections with voters who will give them a low-paying microprojects to do the task and reproduce a system of power throughout Greece, because they even take out the awards of projects and technical programs outside the municipalities. Of course, where they cannot set up a group, they pass provisions such as Article 54 on extending terms to the AACC, which were not allowed until now, in order to have a person of their choice, or Article 55, where they derogate from the choice of heads of the Competition Committee again on the basis of a barium criterion. But this is not just how arbitrariness is covered, Mr President, but only the "friends" will run the risk in Greece, only those who have a blue identity will enter management positions and there is no independent authority. Mr. Petsa, welcome to the 1950 and 1960 EIA. You have made Greece go with your choice and Mr.Mitsotakis' sixty years back and where we can't solve the problems, we take the topic "voice of the frustrations". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. Mr. Pecha, I'm going to put four dilemmas to you, since you're talking after that: The vote of the frustrations is what it means to you? Firstly, the great failure, national failure, by Mr Mitsotakis in Libya, you want to hide? Secondly, the great intensity between Mitsotakis and Karamanlis on the issues of the Greek-Turkish people you want to hide, which creates a schism in your parliamentary group? Thirdly, the deadlock in the conventions with Northern Macedonia that you are still delaying bringing to Parliament? Or fourthly, the great failure of Mr. Mitsotakis in many air words that he told the expatriates and the expatriates that he would secure them eight hundred thousand votes and they are few hundreds - from what we learn - and now you don't know how to pick up this huge problem, throwing the ball on the platform? Pick, Mr. Pecha, four alternatives we've given you. But unfortunately, your ideological arsenal is now very limited. The degradation and categorisation of the Mitsotakis government is seen daily in society. But you can't, Mr. Pecha, make fun of a lot of people for a long time! Greece's priority is the correction of society and a progressive government, and we will not allow you any more to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr. Famele. Good evening to you and me. The Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr. Stylianos Petsas, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start by answering Mr. Famelos' dilemma. We have no dilemma in the New Democracy. New Democracy was elected by a large percentage of the Greek people on July 7, 2019 to implement a programme that brings jobs, development at the site, security for all and brings, as it turns out, a reformist section everywhere, which did not stop despite the fact that we faced two twin crises, the first of course at our borders, when Turkey tried to use as a geopolitical weapon human souls and secondly, when we faced and continue to confront pandemic for fourteen months. And a proof of this reform section brought by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis is this bill on internal control, for which I have not heard much about its structure. I have heard some things that I will try to answer, which disappoint me, but I have not heard many things about his structure. Do we need an internal audit system? Because that's what this bill does. Do we need more accountability? We need a way to ensure that, beyond the objectives set by the body, there is an independent audit committee, which can control what is actually done within each body in public administration. Do we need an integrity consultant? I have not heard many objections about these issues. On the contrary, I saw a great confusion. For example, I have heard from Mr Delis from the Communist Party of Greece confuse accountability with budgetary matters and consider accountability to be a bad thing, something imposed on us by foreign lenders. It's a question of democracy, accountability. And that's exactly what the bill does, it strengthens it. I also heard Mrs Adamopoulou from Mera25 calling for the internal control unit to leave the institution and go somewhere outside. But then we would not talk about an internal audit system, we would talk about an external audit system, and there are external auditors in the Greek public administration. We don't find the wheel. We get standards that have worked everywhere in the world. We get standards that work today that we talk to the large Greek companies. And we have a standard of internal control, and the internal control unit must be subject to the head of the body, but that is why we have the Audit Committee, which distinguishes the issues and the findings of an audit so that it cannot be'shared' by the head of the body, but the finding should be displayed. I would really like these to have been understood by all those who spoke before, but unfortunately I am afraid that only confusion prevailed, while Article 8 of the draft law establishing the Audit Committee was very clear. With regard to the issues that have to do with the AACC and have been heard many times here about Rule 54, but Article 101a of the Constitution exists and anyone who disagrees with the choice of a person can express it at the Conference of Presidents. From there on, the rest of this provision is to give the opportunity to clarify, as the Minister and the committee have said many times and here in plenary. No one replaces the need for consensus which the Constitution itself adopts in accordance with Article 101 A. As far as the other provisions of the draft law are concerned, there has been a lot of discussion on the provisions of the EBRD, particularly with regard to the Economic Commission, as Mr Famelos said before. What we have heard about extreme right-wing traits and what we have heard about attempts to distort democracy! It's clear our location and we've done it all along. The abortion you instituted for the OTA electoral system led to full authority. And, as we have said many times, the Constitution entrusts local government with clear competences for operational issues that need to be dealt with and cannot be minority ballots within municipal councils and a decision should never be made on matters that the public expects. We are therefore clearly strengthening the rulership of the municipalities and the bill that will soon come to the House concerning the new electoral law on OTAs, we are really ensuring that there is a rulership of the municipalities with the combination of the municipal or regional council elected with 43% or more. In the example you used, Mr. Famele, you didn't say how long Mr. Zervas took in the second round. What kind of card is that simply proportional to your philosophy that to build a argument you use the first round and forget the second one? Because that's what you did to the electoral law you brought in. Why didn't you mention the examples from the Municipality of Kalamaria and the other municipalities in the second round? It is clear, then, that it was an attempt to control the municipalities by seeing that you lose with overwhelming defeat in the elections, so you want to'supply' government, and perhaps you have had a say in municipal and regional councils. Hey, we're not gonna do you a favor! As far as the issues that have also been raised in connection with the procedure are concerned, the procedure also concerns amendments. There are, however, many amendments which have been tabled, and in the short term, on which I did not hear any different opinion on their substance. For example, with regard to Amendment 834, but also to other provisions with which we are prolonging amendments on matters relating to pandemic, I have not heard any particular objections. For example, we have extensions for the establishment of development agencies, for the possibility of strengthening JHA by the municipalities, for the possibility of granting free space for bank seats, in order to deal with the pandemic by the end of October, for the issues of negotiation relating to the supply of materials for the municipalities to carry out their work in the midst of a pandemic, but also for the increase of up to 30% of the number of hours overtime for the employees of the municipalities involved in the control workshops. The question of the procedure is not every time a smokescreen to hide the fact that we have nothing to say about the substance and we are simply using the process. However, there are some other very important provisions that have come to supplement the protection sometimes needed by legal certainty or to facilitate the TAs. In particular, I am referring to Article 3, for example, of Amendment 834 which we tabled in a timely manner, and which has to do with the equal treatment of microprocessors of natural or legal persons who have certified OTA debts of up to EUR 10 and in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, we are deleting these amounts. Furthermore, we also have very important issues concerning, for example, the country's cemeteries and the lack of staff and issues relating to the recovery of the dead and burial services. In other words, we have such provisions that come to complement requests from the municipalities in order to facilitate their work and to have a more efficient administration of the municipalities at this difficult time. On this point too, Mr President, I would like to close with a wider position. In the past few days, we have heard too much about the issue of the dead Greeks and their vote. This is nothing of opportunity, nothing about dilemmas. There are things in democracy that we have to deal with. When we have the clear will of the constitutional legislature for two hundred votes in order to implement a piece of legislation such as this one in the next election, and when we have a party such as the Qualified Opposition that now says there are no restrictions, and until then it said that there are restrictions on the exercise of this right, then we respond and say that yes, there is a broad majority here, which will make it easier to vote for the vote of the voters, because that is why we are talking about facilitating the vote of voters on electoral lists that live abroad. We do not want class votes, whoever has the money to be able to travel to come to vote here and who cannot, cannot exercise the right from home. So that's what we're doing. And in the next few days we will be able to discuss this, I hope that we do not revise the view of the Qualified Opposition and go together to vote on this provision which gives way out and which does what the constitutional legislator wants, namely, as broad a electorate as possible, based on those registered in the electoral list. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that today on the board of directors of the CEDEFOP, we have had a very serious and constructive debate on the issue of the "Antonis Tritsis" programme, which was raised earlier by Mr Hatzigiannakis from SYRIZA, but also by Mrs Likoli from the Change Movement. I have to say, therefore, that this is a programme that is innovative and a programme that is very important for the development and change of the appearance of local societies and we intend to take advantage of every euro from this programme. However, the programme has EUR 2.5 billion and we are making sure that we make use of them. That is why we want to have prioritise the projects that are part of the Antonis Tritsis programme so that the small and weak from the technical point of view of the municipalities are not wronged. For this reason, we put a cap on the municipalities and explained to the board and to all the mayors the reasons why this was necessary. Here I would like to say that the 'Philodimenos I' programme, which was heard earlier in this Chamber, had a specific budget which almost doubled with the 'Antonis Tritsis' programme. "Antonis Tritsis" projects amounting to EUR 1.3 billion from the "Philodimos I" programme have been included in the "Antonis Tritsis" programme. We have guaranteed funding and co-financing with the participation of the European Investment Bank with the loan contract signed with the Deposit and Loan Fund on 18 March and we intend to make use of these 2.5 billion, but without excluding certain municipalities. With the wall everyone can now see a high priority project in their region join the "Antonis Tritsis" programme and be implemented. Our bet is to strengthen the absorption of this money for the benefit of the citizens, but also of the Greek economy. In response to the objections of opposition, I explained to the CEDEFOP board that here we are with decompression valves that I said exist in the programme and with flexibility. For example, we incorporate projects which have something to do with the budget with which they had joined the 'PHILOPOS I' programme, but with the Convention which is significantly lower. We also have the opportunity to see what will remain unsettled after the proposals of the municipalities are submitted, so that we can re-examine the plaque or include projects that did not fit up to that time for some municipality, and we also have the possibility of moving to other financing projects that are part of the "Antonis Tritsis" programme, such as the NSRF or such as the Recovery Fund. We are in constant contact with Mr. Psulakakis as well as with other co-presidents to see how we can get this done. It's a dynamic process. Our aim is to move quickly on to the integrations and the arrangements so that in 2022 and 2023 we can see projects carried out by the Antonis Tritsis programme and may be able to absorb every euro 2,5 billion euros and then be able to even increase this financial dossier. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr. Pecha. And now I will give the floor for two minutes to the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection and Crisis Management, Mr Nikolaos Cardalis, for Amendment No 839/79. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 2 of this amendment entitled 'Seasonal firefighting staff regulations - Adding paragraph 3 and 4 to Article 6 of Law 3103/2003' comes to cover an existing legislative gap and correct a problematic and unjust - I dare say - a situation in which an employee of the Firefighting Body, a seasonal firefighter who is injured at a time of duty, is unable to continue to provide his services during the same firefighting period, but also his right to re-entry for the firefighting seasons of next year. This is a right reserved for all seasonal firefighters. The addition of paragraph 3 to Article 6 of Law 3103/2003 provides for the first time for the possibility of continuing to provide work for those who have been proven in the performance of the service and for the purpose of the injured seasonal firefighters. In other words, after a sworn administrative examination, which finds this Treaty, by decision of the commander of the relevant fire department, the Ministry of Health and Sickness, i.e. after an opinion of the County Sickness Board. These are the tasks of a telephone and a firearm, i.e. tasks to which they can respond 67 after an unexpected change in their health status. With the addition of paragraph 4 to Article 6 of Law 3103/2003, the same persons injured in the field of seasonal firefighters shall be excluded from the obligation to produce the required health card and shall therefore no longer be prevented from participating in a future competition of the Fire Corps due to their illness, which they acquired during their conscientious and self-conscientious performance of their duties. The above-mentioned seasonal firefighters will be recruited by either voice mail or firearms in accordance with the change in health status. In addition, it is worth pointing out that unequal treatment is currently being cured, the distinction that exists between seasonal fire workers and the other employees of the Fire Corps, which consists of the fact that in the event of injury to fire officers in the performance of a service and because of this, there is the possibility of continuing to provide their work in a comparable position to their health status. They shall be employed as office clerks. Something like this is not foreseen until now for this category of personnel of the Fire Corps. In addition, this arrangement achieves a double benefit. On the one hand, the seasonal fire officer is protected and no longer treated unfairly by the administration for the unexpected event of his injury, which could not be avoided but is one of its consequences with braveness and self-determination of the performance of his duties and, on the other hand, the Fire Corps wins these services by people who can successfully offer them. This regulation is another step, yet another practical proof that it is our priority to upgrade the institutional framework for guaranteeing the safety of servants in the demanding field of supply for the protection of human life, property, natural wealth and cultural heritage, as fundamental and enforced obligations of a favoured and orderly state. Finally, I believe that this regulation, according to what has been said, is worthy and must be consistently supported by all the parliamentary representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Minister. I will give the floor to Mr Konstantinos Blouchos of the New Democracy from the beautiful Drama which has the pride of the group 'DOXA'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u223	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately for you, and fortunately for society, the chapter of society's confidence in the orderly state and government of Mr Mitsotakis, to which Mr Varoufakis referred, remains unrelenting, despite your agonizing efforts with over-simplistic approaches to weaken it. This is because no political credibility is saved, so rather your own political capital is clearly in a free fall, mainly because of the prudence you display in an unprecedented and unbelievable situation. Trying to adequately study the provisions of the present in committee and at the same time seeking exactly what is happening today and what is changing, I was in front of an officer, quite honest and very sincerely commenting on a great representative of the world Left. He says: “We must never forget the characteristic of all modern opportunism in all areas, its vagueness, its ambiguity, its inaccurateness. The opportunist of his own nature always avoids to raise a matter specifically and rattle, seeks the compound, turns around as a snake between two aspects that are blocked, trying to conform to both. His disagreements are summarized by micromodifications, doubts, innocent and wishful thinking.' Of course, while Lenin is trying to comment on the policy of so-called Social Democrat Mensheviks vis-à-vis the Communist Bolsheviks in the early Soviet Union, it is true that he has given us a monumental description of the inverted political view which risks human dignity, the state stability, the political proposal, and even public health, on the altar of the indiscriminate and purely opposition tactics. We believe and always support the opposite of you, whatever the opposite. Does the government want health measures in favour of the world of salvation? We want a proposal for the right to protest for the violation of our rights. Is the government doing health staff appointments? Of course we want much more appointments. Does the government want free turnout of Greek citizens with the right to vote in the polls? We want specific and binding conditions, and when we approach the relatives or interview them to read us, we say what they want, regardless of whether a few hours after we take them back, denounce the Minister of the Interior that something did not understand well. I am convinced that your member who interviewed the homosexual newspaper did not make any mistakes or missed anything of course, simply harmonized in the opposition doctrine of SYRIZA. We commonly tell everyone what they want to hear, justifying the definition of the great communist leader, which I mentioned earlier. Observation. Because what is it called the attitude to mark as a fraudulent and alteration of the election result, to facilitate the voting of people already on the electoral lists that can normally vote in a natural presence? You're fighting for restrictions, outside when you're asked, you're against restrictions. SYRIZA of the first component "Why don't you open shops, schools, catering?", SYRIZA of the second component: "Why do you open shops, schools and catering?". "Outside the neighborhood police" and let Greece become a man of organised crime, we blame both the police occupation and colluding. And, of course, none of this is happening. And seek advances permanently and still as if you were looking for fleas in hay and mice in the horses. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not put the citizen at the centre, if we do not see how we can improve the provision of public administration to the citizen and have a clearer attitude to this and every reform effort, then we probably have no reason to exist here. For clearly our state needs reforms to the benefit of its citizens, whether they vote right, centre or left. We are all admiring well-built and well-prepared private enterprises, which are more efficient with a view to producing profits, but how can we ignore the same indicators of efficiency, efficiency and productivity, in other words in the largest sector, the public sector? How will the quality of the services it produces be effectively controlled? Is the entrepreneurship factor missing from the public? How will the public interest be served? You diffuse any need for performance and effectiveness, diffuse and update any reference to the need for self-control of the state machine through the introduction of corresponding mechanisms provided for in this Regulation. Let us make an effort to unlock the concepts of the modern state that appear in the provisions of the present. We must finally end up with the hedonical self-help that the vicious circle of the lack of effective internal control, control over the effectiveness of the work produced. We must finish with the vicious circle that simulates empty shirts with the truly capable, with the vicious circle where the philosopher works and simulates with the ineffective, inefficient, where the weak or ineffective is left without care, without help, without care to improve. Major opposition, unfortunately, also the minors, constantly end up in the importance of words and now still end up in the name of extremist populism and extremist extremism, contributing to the substantial dismantling of the social cohesion sought. Here are the contradictions. You are supposed to defend the role of the public sector, but you are opposed first of all to an intervention that upgrades it. So refuse to strengthen administrations and workers and ultimately improve services to the citizen by saving resources for the taxpayer as a result of good management. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot have any private service in its arsenal, all those weapons and tools that show it to modern and effective, and the public sector must follow, with no rhythm and courage. Internal control is a necessary and appropriate treaty for investigating and combating quasi-corruption or malfunction. As a general rule, I believe that this also applies to the institution of the integrity consultant, for which reference is made to the second part of the present. This institution supports civil servants, acts preventive and healing in cases of breaches of their honor, integrity, in cases where there is a possibility of a breach of legality. And in this institutional innovation, you appear against an unfounded and unfounded argument. And it's unheard of, because you're appearing toward institutions such as the Transparency Authority, the National Centre for Public Administration and Government and the Court of Auditors. You've probably been convicted of your immature political psyche. I strongly propose that this vote be voted on. This is an important contribution to modernising our state and its effectiveness by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, which believes in value, efficiency and capacity, looking at tomorrow. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Bluehock. Ms. Sia Anagnostopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA and beautiful Achaia, and then the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement Mr.Kingeroglou will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would refer only to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Culture by the State Secretary for Culture, Mr Dratronolakis, if I did not feel much of what I heard from Members of the New Democracy, from the Minister himself and from the last speaker, Member of the New Democracy, Mr Bloucho. You keep telling us that the final state, the Prime Minister himself is in favour of reforms to combat corruption, that we have public control, for evaluation, for worthy employees, etc. Minister Voridis spoke of safeguards of a preventive nature in order to strengthen a culture of integrity in the public sector. We'd laugh if it weren't tragic. My colleagues from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance have been mentioned and not just in many examples. Let me give you an example, Minister, that we have achieved nothing with parliamentary control, despite the fact that we, too, have tried as SYRIZA and other opposition parties, an example of the war of corruption, which the state promises. I will submit to the Minutes of the House - and read it very carefully, Minister - a large post - not by any form or electronic means that is in the SYRIZA, anything else - about what is going on in the Ministry of Culture and the famous Solidarity Fund, with one of the most disgusting public money-sharing scandals, with findings of audit mechanisms which led the prosecutors to make two prosecutions of felony, with a minister who has not exercised any disciplinary action, in violation of any code of public morality. And now you're coming to talk to us about war and anti-corruption mechanisms! [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Readingstopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, corruption will be fought. The indifference - at best, and I am noble - of the ministers who will fight it? And the best, the cherry on the cake, the state finally provided internal control units at management level. They were also made at the Ministry of Culture. Do you know who went in charge of this unit, Mr. Voridis, appointed by the Minister? One of those persecuted for felony acts. So tell me who you are addressing when you talk about reforms aimed at combating corruption, etc.Huh? Here we have a pure blue control mechanism for the public sector. Because, otherwise, what is still pending since October 2019 should have been sorted out, given an answer to everything that is going on there. And since I have referred to the Ministry of Culture, I will come to the amendment, not to say 'introduction'. For weeks and weeks Greek society has been shocked by an unprecedented scandal involving the former artistic director of the National Theatre. One of the most flagrant institutions of modern culture was humiliated, with a Minister who, not only did not handle the situation in a way that would suit the moral, political, cultural and social values of this country, but also tried to present the hypocritical art as a deception art. So while these have happened, and for the former artistic director, they keep going on and on, many knew what it was about, and I remind you today's post by Mrs. Hadjiantonios that the President of Arsakio had in his drawers a letter with complaints against Mr. Lignade, so people knew about Mr. Lignade's past, but let us leave this because it is in the hands of justice, the Minister handled this matter in the most appalling way. And we're coming to today. Instead, in order to restore the confidence that society must have with the Ministries, especially the confidence among people of culture and the Ministry of Culture, to bring about a piece of legislation, which will not be an amendment that you all know that neither for consultation nor for open discussion nor for what had to be done for such institutions, such as the National Theatre and the State Theatre of Northern Greece, is offering an amendment and does not even have the right to appear in the House. And the Undersecretary may be able to propose an amendment, but do not be fooled by each other. For such a case, the Minister should be here today to hear the questions and answer the questions. He hid himself once more. Remuneration of the Greek Parliament and it is not the first time. Remuneration of the world of culture. Ladies and gentlemen, processed positions have been tabled with the signature of hundreds of artistic people on the subject of the proclamation of the positions of artistic directors. Full indifference by the Minister, the same indifference has shown - we have called it on several occasions in the House, and now we have called it for when and how the cultural sites will open in the summer season - and again we have been reappointed as it did in September. So instead of sitting down to see these processed positions, instead of consulting unions and collectives, instead of consulting all of them to restore the relationship after this huge moral and cultural scandal is throwing us an amendment. And what does he say to us in this amendment? Will the Minister appoint us - how will we have confidence in this Minister? - the members of a recognised authority committee. But he doesn't tell us the members. And there will be no such thing as there will be no representatives of associations or even the Association of Greek Actors. None of this is foreseen. Restoration of trust is called this and the Minister does not care. So this committee, with criteria that are completely unclear, even a manager can take on an artistic director without being obliged by the candidate as an artistic director to present a plan for his vision, etc., will be decided again with personality. We have seen with the "personality" we have arrived. But there is a crucial point in this amendment. Why did this whole scandal happen? Why did this society stay open? Why do we have a movement "MeToo" primarily in the field of culture? So instead of a piece of legislation, the Minister should come and ask this committee to set out as a criterion to sign a contract, a code of conduct, to ask the candidates for a number of certificates, a letter of recommendation on where they have worked if there were problems with them, as we saw the previous artistic director, Mr Lignade, this is completely absolved. We shall be voting against the amendment on a solemn basis. First of all, because it is an amendment, and secondly because the cultural area has been devalued once again, while the positions have been worked out, and because the unions that have raised this whole story are completely absent, they are, of course, completely absent, because Parliament has also been completely devalued so that proper consultation can be held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u227	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u228	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are tabling legislative improvements which we have already announced very little. I would tell you that most are of a technical nature. In substance, and only in order to facilitate the remarks made by colleagues and rapporteurs, the essential, those of some added value are that, in the famous APA provision, the limit is added where we say that no more than two terms are allowed and the total period of the terms spent must not exceed twelve years. So there's a limit coming in. There is also a relevant comment from the scientific committee. And so we are covering the scientific committee's remark. Because I hear you bog, Mr. Zachariadis. Don't you vagina?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u230	I'm not moaning. I'm making a query.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u231	I'm saying this. I hope that these sounds are not sound of pleasure, because I am simply clarifying that, in relation to our previous debate, this obviously has nothing to do with the objection of unconstitutionality. It is simply what we incorporate as a moratorium we consider appropriate. In the regulation that we are bringing to the Competition Committee, we have received a critical remark which we have heard from the workers' association. You'll see her. We are essentially premiumd with molecules for selecting candidates for positions of responsibility for their work experience of at least two years in a competition committee or independent regulators or other authorities of the European Union. You'll see how it's printed. In fact, it is a premium for those who have such a preservative. From a point of view, I think we have nothing special after this. I see some dates. I think it's a lot of people. In the capacity of the Economic Commission - something you have criticised the municipalities, in the opposite direction of your criticism, as always - we add to the possibility of the Economic Committee of the regions. So these are legal corrections which we also make. The rest is purely technical and expressive.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Minister. Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement Mr Kegeroglou has the floor. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, will then speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u234	I'm so sorry, Mr. Kegeroglu. I gave the floor to Mr Kegeroglu, because he had asked for him much earlier. So, if Mr. Brutsi wants to talk, I'll give him the floor very gladly afterwards. I'm fine with it. You can continue, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u235	Minister, because you have just announced legislative improvements - we will see them - the time limit is positive. However, it does not renounce, but confirms, Minister, the sloppy legislation. Is it possible for you to see this now? You don't convince me! The rough legacy is a concept that, unfortunately, you said to Genarris that there will not be with you at the Ministry of the Interior, you continue with it and you need to see what you are doing. The issues that have dealt with the last days and hours of the public debate about the vote of the Greek residents abroad, the impoverished, the Greeks of the diaspora, the people who remember them every time home is in a difficult position to influence the governments of the inhabited countries, unfortunately many political forces are facing them with a great deal of hypocrisy. In the process followed in 2019, a broad political agreement was reached, but its result was a narrow 'Korsche' in the rights of immigrants, in the rights of Greek residents abroad. The compromises have led to this. However, there was a political agreement. Some have not honoured it and have not been honoured by those who have undermined it and those who have found the opportunity, of course, with the first promise to "brand it". Of course, it is not "argued" in the sense that it is the law of the state and is valid, but the confidence that may have existed to any extent from Greek residents abroad to political forces has been lost. SYRIZA, who was one of the accedings to the narrow "korse" in restrictions, accused the New Democracy abroad of them, but there were also reversals. Ms. Jacki, whether she acted as a "rabbit", as the KKE spokesman, or expressed the position of SYRIZA, shows that she considers the demigrant as the "American" of the famous films, which can be politically deceived with some such attitudes and talk. The Change Movement feels absolutely right. We deposited in September 2019 the whole framework of our positions. We have argued that there should be one single condition, that they should be included in the polling lists in the polls, that they should be put on a special electoral list, that they should vote by letter in order to facilitate and, of course, to measure the overall result. Is it possible, after all, for political forces to come back and say that we are going to set the table, have the feeling that they are voting, casting the vote, but at night the call is gone and not counted? That's it! Well, I'll beg you. There can be no debate on the glue. Tomorrow, after you have appointed the committee, very well, we will have the first debate at first, the parties will table their positions and their views, but that's it. There will be a wide consultation, both within and outside of course, until the bodies have heard the necessary fermentation, that sterile confrontation has left the middle to the extent that it has been and that this issue can be reassigned on the right basis of the Greek impoverished, the Greek foreign residents. So we ask you after tomorrow, the next body hearing will go much later to get the time necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, there are too many issues relating to the current administrative bill and I think it is worth recalling that transparency, transparency, integrity, integrity and efficiency of the administration, which we all call upon in one way or another, are keys to the development and well-being of society. In fact, in view of the Recovery Fund and of the other financial instruments, which together bring together an unprecedented sum of 100 billion, all of this should be part of the process and preparation, but also of the implementation of projects and plans and policies. There is a huge issue, of course, which we have already raised, the issue of the lack of a more general plan. It is the case that we are saying 'a lot of resources, but we have a deficit in planning and policies'. We are not talking about lists of projects that will consume this money and the sums that will be spent will be absorbed, such as the notorious expression 'absorbing'. This is going to happen one way or another. Exploiting on the basis of a new development and productive model, especially after the pandemic reminds us that development and policies must focus on humans, that we must emphasise the social dimension and social imprint of politicians and have social well-being. For an anthropocentric progress, then, we need another design from the one you've been following. We will try to influence in every way, with our interventions, with our positions and proposals in this direction. That's our role, that's what we're gonna do. I would like to remind you that PASOK as a government has brought together a number of regulations - I had the opportunity to refer this morning - institutional changes and sectors, such as those of the independent authorities, which have created a strong institutional framework for the Greek system of governance. Unfortunately, there are different concepts, as I have stressed, and from the SYRIZA government in the last four and a half years, but also from you, from a different perspective, but with a common denominator: State, control, intervention, disrespect for the independent authorities and institutions. This is confirmed by your policy every day. Act ad hoc to adapt the laws to choices and purposes. The choices are adapted to those that apply, to the rules, and not to change the rules to fit the options. You remember your first choice with the commander of the NRA: "You don't have to be qualified, because the man we choose doesn't have it." And you at the Ministry of Rural Development did something else. I'll remind you, because you're the first to legislate. The so-called finally state is all successes. The successes are not the state of service, they are the ministers, the Secretary-General sometimes and above all the public administration, the officials, unfortunately. That is where we have come to transfer the political responsibilities to the administration and instead of the politicians taking responsibility for their responsibilities, intervene and replace the administration. This reversal of roles is 'professional opposition', I would say with a more general expression in introductory terms. It is confirmed by the poor legislation, without genuine consultation with the social partners, without a political consensus effort, that there is no one in your priorities. I think that this will be an element that, while it gives you the feeling that you are ruling, dominating and deciding, will also be a legend for the failure of your policy. In modern societies, modern systems of governance, social and political consensus is of great importance in modern democracies. Go after her. It will be for the benefit of the country in particular, but also of the government. You don't. You started a long time ago with the "Antonis Tritsis", with great talk and ambitious plans. You have demonstrated why, in your view, you failed the previous one and you are bringing in a new one. The characteristic, however, of the very delayed CIA that has now been issued was that you are transferring all the responsibilities to the final state, i.e. the Minister. The Minister has all the responsibilities, including on technocratic issues, to assess criteria, to assess where they are going. Of course, the previous program "Philodimos" failed, in the sense that since the municipalities are now protesting that there is a great imbalance in the distributions and the "Antonis Tritsis" will be offset by what has been given by "Philodimos", in other municipalities, a great deal has gone to other small and other zeros. In this context, therefore, the gaps in the previous programme also emerged, but this concerned another period. You can't set off today. Change it. Improve funding to cover necessary projects that are needed by the municipalities at this time. Do not unfairly blame the municipalities with study capacity and maturity and do not assume all responsibilities. Let the committees and the institutions work a little. I heard that Mr. Petsas had talks with the CEDEFOP today. I hope there has been one end, although I believe that the CEDEFOP, in my opinion, operates a little centralised. You know, there's a different concept in the counties of the province and the district here in Athens, the municipalities of Athens. It's not just the difference in responsibilities. For example, there is no way out here. In addition to the water supply, sewerage and other centralized issues that care for Athens, there are many issues that have a social dimension and the municipalities in the province need more support. It is unacceptable to vote on the amendments with many articles. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will also take the time of the second reading, Mr President. When you have one amendment with nine articles and another with seven, it is some positive instrument, but it is also some negative ones that I cannot vote on. And you put them to the vote as an article. Now tell me what we should do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u236	You should vote for it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u237	We will not therefore vote on the amendments which are negative and we must vote on those which are positive, but on their articles. You'll give that right. If you do not give it today, obviously there will be no choice in the process. But you have a mania with the transfer of powers to the Economic Commission. SYRIZA messed up with "CLISTEN". He's messed up. Do you know how you're doing now? You're doing a monstrous job! The mess and the monstrosity. They are the two phrases worthy of SYRIZA with "KLITHEN" and to you by abolishing all concepts of collectiveness and representativeness. This thing can't be done. Let consents at local level and especially at the pandemic, which have been achieved in many cases. I come to the matter of internal audit and integrity advisers. These are the two main issues of the bill. The internal control system in public administration is or may be conditional on a useful tool for its operation and you are responding to the recommendations of the OECD, GRECO and the European Union. Unfortunately, however, it is introduced with many problems from the outset and things will get worse with its implementation if they go ahead. There is, of course, no strategic planning first of all. That's what you had to do first. The previous Minister hadn't done it, you didn't. You immediately entered legislation, to build structures, systems, control committees. A comprehensive view is needed for the management of human resources. A system of integrity, efficiency, dignity and corruption should be based on rules and values. These must be prioritised. It is not enough to set up the control units, which are also wrong and rather for the eyes of the world. Internal control, Minister, cannot only be a question of the control of officials and leave the highest level of decision to the outside and the people in positions of responsibility. Does anyone think that the control of the administration of a body will be unresponsive and objective when the top of the system to which the auditors refer is the head of the audited body? Some thousands of civil servants, as we have all said, are required for their service, and without provision for their replacement the bodies will be significantly weakened. Of course, there you have the solution, which is external. The possibility of outsourcing the internal audit work to external partners is given. Can you tell me now how we will continue to say internal control, but by external partners? That's the most contradictory. But I think that's where all the methods exist. The selection body in its composition shall have no guarantees of objectivity and independence. The non-determination of criteria for auditing adequacy and knowledge of auditing for the members of the committees will cause enormous problems. So if the check is to be carried out, Minister, by external partners, will you once again call him internal? How is that possible? There are reservations about the colonisation of public services by private service companies. It has occurred in some cases if the internal service is not staffed, so that it can ensure that it cooperates with the private sector. We've seen external partnerships successful and failed. We have seen external cooperation with rules that are controlled by the internal services and we have seen and absorb internal structures from the external partner. Look at it in many cases and at the Ministry you came from. Do you know if it is managed by an internal or external partner? And now that the proclamation, the mess, the ASE ate three presidents of the OPEKEPE. Why? Because the outside partner had assimilated the internal structure. OPEKEPE can't do anything without the outside partner. That makes sense, because its contribution is very important. I now come to the institution of the integrity advisers. Unlike what I said about the internal control system, the institution is unknown to our administrative reality and has not been pointed out in any expert report or in any European study or recommendation that it is our great deficit or that it should be a priority. In other countries the consultant works and is a renowned institution. But there are other things that are not here. It has a specific and important role, it functions seriously and requires special knowledge, because it extends to the moral support of officials. With the legislation that we have before us, all civil servants can theoretically become integrity advisers. There are no criteria here, there are no simulations, no objectives, no rules. We close our eyes to everyone. We are selling it in communication with the employees and close to the well-known "goods" and the "goods" are now added to the integers. It is a position of Head of Division level, as you have chosen it, with direct hierarchical dependence on the political leadership. Two are possible: either devalued as a dependent instrument or evolved in a position similar to known refrigerators. To conclude, I should like to say that, on the government's side as a priority, the integrity counsellor can and must function as an independent authority, with functional and personal autonomy, in the context of personal and legal security, both for auditors and for officials controlled, who have no rule and no right. The institution to which the civil servants will apply to protect themselves from the auditors must also be institutionalised, since there are, of course, no rules to be complied with. In any case, more comprehensive regulation and wider institutional structure are required. For Article 54, we talked about it this morning. It's clear. We have also requested a roll-call vote. It is good that the communication you have made, but it does not change - and it cannot change - what has been done with the legalisation process and the content of course. That is why we have put it roll-call vote so that the other parties can take responsibility for it as well. I'm hanging up with Article 55. Minister, you referred to Rule 55. What are you doing in the Competition Committee? You say, "I'm competitioning, to hire the private sector to place them in the directorate-general." Directors? Now, put in divisions. Excuse me, do you have any confidence in the officials of the Competition Committee? We have worthy employees there too, who have not been posted by a government. Look at this. Is it possible for the heads of State or Government to come from outside, from the market, and indeed from the market that the Competition Committee should check? Uh, no, this is inconsistent, in my view. Thank you very much, Mr President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u238	No tolerance. You took all your time. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of what he said about local government, but also of the criticism expressed by SYRIZA about the handling of our government and the decisions taken on local government, I owe him as a man of self-government, who has served for twenty years, to put forward some thoughts, opinions on the handling of the government, on the effective way in which it is managed and on how important it is to support this institution. First and foremost, I would remind you of the recent history of democracy in our country over the last forty years, the institution of self-government has been through great trials. At first, with very loose steps and then, the country's political administrative system realised the need for this institution to exist as one of the main pillars of development for our country. The key was in the democratic way it decided, as it was and operated on the principle of subsidiarity. Local government, that is, the institution that can know the issues of each region better than any ruler. And that was the key to the major institutional changes that the New Democracy Government has made during these forty years and the PASOK government. Today, we have evolved into an institutional environment of Local Government First and Second Grade, which has really jumped forward. It is true that there is more to be done on the issues of resources and responsibilities and the improvement of their administrative function. However, in today's debate on this bill, such as that of the Ministry of the Interior, which is an institutional leap and institutional innovation with which it includes, what is heard by SYRIZA as criticism only as humiliating can I say it. For how else can anyone interpret SYRIZA's attitude to this valuable and developmental institution for the country, when it decides in 2019, with a bill that actually undermines the institution, to change the whole way in which the members of the government are elected? Fortunately, in the 2019 national elections, the New Democracy Government comes and one of the first bills it tables is the redefinition of the responsibilities and the functioning of the municipal council. Because basically what SYRIZA tried to do was to lead, undermining the institution of self-government, to a complete deadlock, so that no development decision can be made, that there is an introvert to the municipal council and that no mayor, with a low majority on the number of municipal councillors, can make a decision. Thus, as New Democracy owed it as a new government, it brought the first law through which it changed the way of decisions in favour of the mayor, so that it could be an effective body. Because that is where an institution is judged to be effective, in being able to decide, something that could not have been done with the existing framework before the national elections. Today, after the announcements made and after the bill which has been consulted by the Minister, Maki Voridis and the government as a whole, we all see that a bill awaits us, Minister, the entire government and the whole world. It is expected as a breath and oxygen at last to restore logic in the issue of local government. Because those who have served it and those who operate at government level and know how important a development institution is for the country know that as soon as possible the legal framework, the institutional framework for the operation of local government, on the basis of the electoral process, must be changed. And very positively, after the debate I had just had with the Minister, it is that before Easter will finally come to the committees the bill that is in consultation. Because if you really support the institution, you must give him wings of effectiveness, you must give him the opportunity to decide, there must be majorities, which will make use of the money they manage on behalf of the people he represents, of the area he represents, to do works. And they must make use of the resources of the European and the resources from the Public Investment Programme. That is the answer we are giving today to the criticism made by the SYRIZA, which, in essence, I will agree with what Mr Petsas said - because he could not control the institution has tried to undermine it, through the logic of the ineffectiveness of decisions. The second issue, which emerged, was the issue, in which the SYRIZA MP, the relevant sector leader on the issues of Democrat Hellenism, two days ago in a foreign newspaper, was placed and said that, although SYRIZA ever comes out, it will bring a bill and remove restrictions. But since the whole world is now a small village, where everything is learned, it believed that its position in that newspaper was intended to send a message abroad, that this poor New Democracy government does not want the Greeks from the Greeks, when the government passed this bill through Takis Theodorikos, our position - clearly on the issue - was that there was no restriction. However, in the context of the two hundred votes needed to allow for this bill and for people from the Greek Democratic Republic to have the right to vote, our brothers and sisters, the Greeks who are abroad, had to have fatal compromises. And the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, reconciled in this logic to the possibility of two hundred votes. And that's what we did. However, since SYRIZA is opening the matter and wants these restrictions to be lifted, 'Behold Rhodes, behold and jump', as was said against the coron. The government brings this bill through the Interior Minister. I think that tomorrow it is also being discussed in committees. We ask SYRIZA to do what is self-evident, what the relevant sector leader told him in statements to the newspaper of the Greeks abroad, the De-democrat Hellenism, that they want to change and no restrictions. So we welcome you in our bill, which just comes to be identified with the proposal made by your sector leader on this matter. And here, it will now prove whether it is hypocritical and you are also mocking Greeks abroad and internally or you are really realistic in this matter. So we expect everyone with an agony to see your position on the relevant committee of the Ministry of Interior tomorrow. Now, with regard to this bill, ladies and gentlemen, the constant aim of all governments is always to upgrade the public administration sector, is good administration, transparency, public sector efficiency as an end in itself. Because through the effectiveness of the public sector and the increase in those areas that I have said - good administration, transparency, efficiency - two things are coming to light. The first is the service of the citizen, which is a lasting objective, the best and best service of the citizen and the second, most importantly, the creation of wealth. But does the public sector create wealth? Answer: surely it does. Because a good public sector body, a well-written and efficient public body, gives the possibility - as our rapporteur, Mr. Stathis Konstantinides, has rightly described - to create the conditions for making investment attractive and helping the private sector create wealth. So this is also the key and targeting that brings this bill. It does not come to answer all the issues, but it comes to introduce two critical very important institutions, which will improve the functioning of the institution, the functioning of the public sector. It is the integrated internal audit system, which is done primarily in OECD countries, but also in the European Union and, secondly, the establishment of the new institution of the integrity consultant. Are these institutions important? Of course it is. They are innovative, they are new, they operate in other regions, both in Europe and in the world. Where they were and where they were working, they brought very positive results. And I cannot understand the grief on the part of the Change Movement in particular, which, while accepting in practice how important these institutions are for the functioning of public administration and for increasing its effectiveness, makes criticism, criticism and criticism, says that one or the other is missing and will not work. But if we moved on like this, it wouldn't go any further in Greece. Today, indeed, the Ministry of Interior through the Minister and the government as a whole comes to establish and make a great institutional innovation. These two institutions, Minister, I really believe - and we all believe it - that they will be oxygen and improve the tool, which is called the efficiency of public administration for the benefit of citizens, for the benefit of civil servants, for the benefit of citizens and for the benefit of society itself and the private sector, as the public sector improves. That is why I believe that, beyond the individual criticisms that have been heard, everything is here and will be improved in the course. It is a great institutional innovation of the Interior Ministry, which all sides of this House must support and embrace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. We're still in the New Democracy. And from the Cyclades we're going to Kefalonia, Mr. Panayios Cappato. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I should like to refer to what I have heard, the concern of Mr Kegeroglou, about how the money will be shared in the Antonis Tritsis programme. What I can tell you - and you will see it in the next period - is that three small municipalities in Kefalonia and a small municipality in Ithaca - are the law of Kefalonia, so is Ithaca and Kefalonia - can absorb up to 52m euros from Antonis Tritsis. I never remember that much money that the municipalities have taken. If we take into account the sketches which have been circulated lately, which compare today with the PASOK era, that is to say, 'on PASOK lobster, while today's souvlaki', I think we should now go back to PASOK and talk about the funding and the way in which we are living from here and beyond the projects that will be carried out. This society will live through these projects and take advantage of them. We are talking about a lot of money that we had not seen in the previous periods. And if you want - because you're looking at me - I can tell you that at times SYRIZA in Kefalonia I remember no work of state, but only one project of the Municipality of Kefalonia. And I want to remind you that in 2014 we had catastrophic earthquakes with great damage to the Peninsula of Palis and the city of Lixouri and no work has been done! Believe me, not a single euro was given. If I am wrong, go up and deny me please for the money that was given from 2015 to 2019 in Kefalonia and Ithaca.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u242	Why don't you tell us now? Now how much did they take?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u243	I told you that with Antonis Tritsis 52 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u244	Don't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u245	And you should know that from all the discounts of 52 million - I imagine these will be communicated by the ministers in the appropriate way - we will still have work to do. Thus, 52 million will become practically 60 million for the island of Kefalonia and Ithaca. I'm coming to today's bill. Internal control as a process, operation and mechanism is that activity that achieves the smooth and efficient organisation of public administration. It is the instrument which, independently, objectively, systematically and professionally, we would say, identifies risks, problems and solutions to structural malfunctions in the provision of public services. Apart from the instrument, however, it is also the message that the public sector, despite its problems and its reduced reflexes, can change. The main prerequisite for this change is the structure of a procedural internal control system that succeeds in the smooth functioning of sections and addresses, always in accordance with the legislation and with the rules of administration, the allocation of responsibilities and responsibilities to officials, according to their capabilities and qualifications, the cooperative relationship between services and public bodies with third parties, rationalisation in the management and savings of operating costs, and finally the restoration of public confidence in the public sector and the services it provides. The draft law we are debating and voting on today contains provisions on the internal control system, on the one hand, and on the other, the institution of the integrity adviser. In the first part we are introducing the development and operation of an integrated internal control system for each public body. In those bodies, the internal audit unit that we are establishing provides an independent assurance of the efficient operation of the services in order to achieve the individual objectives set out. In more detail, each of these units takes into account the size, organisational structure and specific characteristics of the entities. At the same time, two major innovations are introduced by this regulation. The first concerns the staffing of internal audit units only by internal auditors certified as well as the possibility to be accredited by the National Centre for Public Administration and Administration. The second concerns the legal defence of internal auditors and staff more widely served by units. At the same time, a series of regulations clarify the role, responsibilities and nature of those bodies that coordinate and supervise internal control units. In the second part we adopt a new institution in public administration, that of the integrity consultant. I invite you to think that civil servants in our country in the exercise of their duties may be faced with incidents of corruption, misuse of power or harassment by colleagues and heads, fear of stigmatisation or retaliation to discourage those officials to report any unprofessional behaviour. We've been called to monitor international practice. There we have identified the successful development and functioning of the institution of the integrity adviser, which we are introducing into this draft law. Ethics dilemmas, reports of integrity violations, as well as education on codes of ethics and ethics are some of the fields that the consultant will be asked to provide his services, counselling, supportive and informational services relating to ethics and integrity in the workplace. Let me remind you here of one of our most critical public administration interventions, that of the state of staff. In its vote at that time, we agreed on the need to separate government and administration, a distinction which enabled us to formulate a clear picture of the public sector's obligations, responsibilities and functions as a whole. This draft law is clearly moving in this direction, while at the same time deepening it. And that, because it embraces the procedures of a public body as a whole. From the financial management, procurement and human resources management, the evaluation of performance, integrity and internal service communication, we cover every aspect of the public sector. With a framework that is coherent, comprehensive and accurate, we are developing all those components of an internal control and supervision system. At the same time we are introducing a logic into public administration, which, in my view, is very important. I am referring to the allocation of responsibility and role of a public servant, who assumes specific responsibilities, linked to conditions, objectives and the reward of his or her ability. We are therefore talking about a new organisational culture, which is a prerequisite for this project to succeed, an organisational culture that protects the public interest and the provision of quality public services to citizens, strengthens the flexibility and efficiency of the public sector, provides guarantees for the public administration to develop independently an institutionally sound internal control and integrity system, codifies and modernises a fragmented institutional framework, which prioritises the improvement of public governance structures and procedures, and at the same time strengthens transparency and accountability mechanisms. Finally, it balances the immediate response to the pandemic impact by guaranteeing effective security controls. This change serves this draft law. That is why I am putting myself in a positive position today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr. Cappato. Mrs Panagiou (Giota) Poulou from SYRIZA and beautiful Boeotia and Livadia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u247	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, along with the health and economic crisis, which are continuing, the most worrying development of the days is the growing crisis of confidence that society experiences. Crisis of confidence in a failed government and a "new" Prime Minister, who put a lock on the country when we mourned a few hundred victims of COVID -19 and now open up to mourning nine thousand 50 fellow people, a lock that caused the poverty of our countless fellow citizens without intercepting the pandemic. Crisis of confidence in an unreliable government, which does not strengthen public health with infrastructure and staff, does not go on prescribing the tests, while on the contrary burdening the responsibility of the citizens with self test, to open up the market, schools and tourism without any plans. Day after day, citizens understand that there is something rotten in the "basic of excellence", a diffuse atmosphere of decline, with recent symptoms of improper teleperons threatening ministers, the murders of journalists, as well as the attempt to hollow corruption and abuse of power of the chosen government. Let us now move on to the bill, which is still a poor product of the government's legislative principle. Mr Minister, I can only refer to you personally, because it is your arrogant look rather what is causing me. You work hard, Minister, I heard you say publicly, when you worked all weekend to get another bill, the vote of the revenues. Indeed, you are working on the night, so that you can manage the thirty-four articles of this bill in consultation to double in tabling this House and almost triple with the amendments! It is superproductive, however, provisions, without relevance, design and composition, with invasive articles, without any consultation now in two-thirds of the bill. But with such bills - a broom, Minister, we have become a dump! Minister, it seems that while at the Ministry of Rural Development you really shine with your inappropriateness, at the Ministry of Interior you are determined to make up for the lost time. Your successor, Mr. Lebanese literally runs and is not enough. It is going to reconstruct a dissolved OPEKEPE which will not be able to pay the subsidies in time. He runs to strengthen an ELGA, who has been dehumidated by staff and cannot make autopsy and generally runs to assemble unbeatables. So it seems that, as you have solved the problems of Greek farmers, you will also solve the problems of public administration and local government. And you inaugurate your term in the new post with a draft law on internal control in the public sector, without solving problems of coordination between existing control mechanisms, whether in the narrow public sector or in self-government. As the bodies have told us, given their subscribing, you are still leaving a window for the assignment of private auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, in the third part of the bill, the government is praising, once again, an out-of-date list of far-reaching provisions on every science, such as for the genuinely passionateness of the days of the local government and I would like to focus my criticism on them. The only thing that goes on in this sad legislative bucket is your obsession for subjugating self-government, for promoting centralism, for factorism, for opacity, manipulation, for unconditional delivery eventually to private interests. And all this is being pursued through the dissolution of the basic cell of democracy in self-government, namely municipal and regional councils. Your predecessor, Mr. Theodorikos, Mr. Minister, having first created the fictional, "family" majorities of the mayors in the economic committees, granted them after the most important responsibilities of the hereditary collective bodies. Now you are taking the dogma of undemocratic interventions, violating the European Charter of Local Autonomousity again. You have a characteristic intolerance to popular verdict, democratic representation of citizens and collective decisions. So we see this disastrous policy going on with Article 38. The Economic Commission will now be able to decide not only on the recruitment of general staff, as it has so far been, but also on the contracted rental of work, as well as a proxy of lawyers. Finally, it will also decide on the revenues of municipal cemeteries, with the possibility of entrusting private individuals, which has so far been introduced by the Committee on Quality of Life to the municipal councils, yet another rewarding service of the municipalities, which is also planned to be entrusted to individuals. After seven successive legislative attacks against self-government, you too continue unsatisfactory. You also call on the municipalities to be governed, but you are deliberately ignoring that in almost all municipalities decisions are taken collectively, consensually and unanimously. If there are some other examples, they are exceptions, which are probably due to the unfortunate manipulations of your mayors who want to run uncontrollablely. Minister, I'm still a municipal councillor, head of opposition municipality in the municipality of Levandeon. All our decisions, 95%, are taken unanimously. In Article 51, you continue the smuggling that concerns precisely the poor budgets of the municipalities. You will be able to extend up to 30 June to the use of up to 50% of the CFP to cover other operating costs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And in the second paragraph, however, you are making a funeral with foreign collisions, since you also allow the use of return income, i.e. the fees paid by the public for specific return services. It is not enough that citizens are poorly paid for by the pandemic, you are also asking them to finance obligations of the state that you do not cover as government! You strangle the municipalities financially, to show up again as a savior on a case-by-case basis. However, the deficit in the budgets of the municipalities, which amounts to 569 million on the basis of your own accounting data provided to the CEDEFOP, is not even covered by half of the exceptional grants so far. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. You did not foresee a half-euro in the already reduced tactical budget of 2021 to meet the needs of the pandemic of self-government and continue to reduce their revenues until today with the amendment that you are giving to the vehicle rental companies debts for parking infringements, but you are not giving them to the citizens as well. And it is not enough that you lack resources in self-government, you deprive her of your inability and your inability and important development projects that are ponding or responding to the cap that you propose in the "Antonis Tritsis". I would like to say to the previous Member who spoke, because he obviously does not have the matter, that he did not notice that all the previous projects, those of 50 million, because the municipality of Levadeon had 60 million, were from "Philodimos", just repainted "Antonis Tritsis". Finally, your incredible obsession with the recruitment of permanent staff and the assignment of powers to "losers" private poster and contractor is reflected in Article 48. With this article you are entitled to sign the engineers who work under eight-month contracts in Ottawa Development Programmes. And you don't do it to help, as you say, only the very small municipalities that don't have staffed technical services, you legislate in general, because you want to undermine and erod the public character of the services offered by the OTAs, to dismantle labour relations, to serve public services with the party customers of your own mayors. Besides, you are seeking the same thing with the Development Agency of Local Government, which those who have conducted local administration have seen and had to settle their huge debts and finally abolish them. "hot potatoes" in our hands we called them, Minister. Once again, then, you are using self-government as a "rabbit".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u248	Finish this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u249	I shall conclude, Mr President. You start demolition of the public services of self-government and the permanentity of public officials from the municipalities, to proceed to the hard core of the state. Your intentions, moreover, to control recruitment throughout the public are clearly seen in the provocative article 54. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill shows that the government does not offer any upgrading of the framework for internal control in the public sector. It also shows that it does not want strong and independent self-government standing on the part of the citizen. On the other hand, it wants self-government without democratic legitimacy, the subordinate of the mayor, the district mayor and the Minister, without sufficient funding, without permanent staff, so that it can be fully controlled. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mrs. Pulu. I will give the floor to Mr. Panagiotis Skourikos by SYRIZA, who is elected in the first East Attica district and will close the circle of speakers with a natural presence with Mrs. Stergianis Biziou, who has a problem and must leave. If they hear me from 'WEBEX' - and they must listen to me - I say that the curtain will be opened by Mr Dionysios Kalamatianos from SYRIZA and will have to be prepared, as will Mr Georgios Kotrias. Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to speak only of one amendment, the one that the Ministry of Interior has brought in and the appointment of the artistic directors of state theatres. Ladies and gentlemen, we have gladly noted that the government at last seems to understand the need for public competitions to fulfil the positions of directors of public artistic organizations. We have been waiting since August 2019. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have been doing twenty months to bring a rough, leg-written amendment as ash in the eyes. And if it hadn't been preceded here by the scandal with the director of the National Theatre, Mr. Lignade, who was a personal choice of Mr. Mitsotakis and Mrs. Mendoni, you would not have brought this "papapatsoulia" to plenary. Public statements, ladies and gentlemen, guarantee transparency and social accountability. The notice you are proposing reorganizes a regime of opaqueness and ministerial almighty, which imposes the jewels of the Great Maximus. You are speaking here vaguely of a special committee that will be chosen to propose to the Director, without determining its composition. The vagueness you say about 'personalities' does not guarantee any transparency. The Minister will appoint. We have the precedent of the Central Archaeological Council, which had very serious scientists when Mrs Mendoni received the Ministry. He had very serious scientists, but they didn't agree to everything with the Minister. He changed them, with very serious scientists again. But, oh of the miracle, from there on, there were no objections and everything proceeded according to the directions set by the Minister. So the Minister will appoint these personalities to elect the director. In fact, with what criteria will he choose to send this committee? On criteria similar to those which were prevailing in the election of Mr. Lignade? We believe that within the committee workers should be present, at least one member of the Labour Union of the State or the National Theatre and, of course, a member of the Greek Actors Association. But vagueness continues. You tell us that the candidate director should have at least five years of professional experience in the organization and management of theatre producers or have experience in the organization and operation of a dramatic school. Diazitic "or" allows someone who has no organic relationship with the theatre to become an artistic director, so long as he has the experience as an employee in a private office, say, production. There is no need for pre-service to the administration of a cultural organization. Experience in organizing and operating a dramatic school can have each other. And you, Mr President, can make a business, invest in a dramatic school and claim with great hope the address of our National Theatre. That is what the Minister says about this amendment. Everywhere in the civilized world, throughout Europe, ladies and gentlemen, artistic director is necessarily an artist, actor, director, theatrical writer, filmmaker. There are no managers anywhere, there are administratively qualified artists. The history of the theatre shows a number of cases, since the artistic director has competence to train a drama, artistic design, control of the artistic work, the artistic result, on which, of course, a manager cannot respond in general and in vaguely. This role, after all, has already been played by the chairman of the board of directors of the theatre. What are you doing? You are opening with this amendment the door to administer public artistic technocrats regardless of vision, regardless of artistic persons. I do not want to go into details, because the amendments you are proposing remain the overpowering of the artistic director and especially the economic issue, but we do not have time to touch on these issues. Note that in SYRIZA with the Vernardakis Act in 2016 there was a general provision for the competition of directors in the public sector. You abolished him by voting the law on the ultimate state. You abolished the notices prepared by SYRIZA and for reasons of public interest, as the Minister told us from this step by the Minister, and then behind closed doors he appointed Mr. Lignade, who, as she said again, had met us three days ago. You know it all the time, as all Greeks know it, and unfortunately foreigners learned it. The amendments you bring without consultation are pretextary and simply state your failure. You are trying to ball the situation in the two State Theatres, National and State Theatre of Northern Greece, who so brutally abused. The National Theatre was specially wounded irreparably. It is this theatre where, in the presence of Mrs. Minister, the unsubscribed artistic director welcomed the Prime Minister, who was coming to attend the rehearsal of the "Press" of Aeschlou for Epidaurus. Inappropriate move towards the theatre and its people! This moment, the moment of reading is sacred, it's mysterious. There is no one who does not cooperate on the uploading. Someone had to tell the careless, and here's the Prime Minister, who didn't know. The Minister had to know. The artistic director knew for sure. And from the happy hugs of Minister, director, Prime Minister, we passed to "we didn't know who he is" or "he tricked us, because he's a good actor". Good actor! These are tastes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u252	That's not serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u253	Isn't she serious? You're not serious about culture at all. You're committing crimes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Pappa, please. Don't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u255	Not at all serious is your treatment with the highest capital in this country. You don't like it. So listen to them. These arrangements are very afraid they're photographic. I'm really afraid they're looking forward to someone or someone with very low qualifications. After all these tactics of your state in the field of culture, you therefore come to cover your criminal policies in the same way as - in a puppy - with criminal policies. Listen, it's not serious what we're talking about filling up the director of the National Theatre when we live and have lived what we have lived with your chosen ones! You're not worth culture. You don't deserve the Greek people. You really don't deserve to master his fates. And of course, we are voting against all the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. Darkness. As I said before, it will close the curtain of speakers in the natural presence of Mrs Stergiani Biziu from New Democracy. Mr Kalamatianos and Mr Kotrias will stay a little long, because I was asked by the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Ioannis Ragussas. Mrs Stergianis Biziu has the floor from New Democracy and beautiful Larissa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, public administration is the number one factor in the proper functioning of the state. Pathology, such as corruption, abuse of power, bureaucracy, damage the quality of the services provided, undermine the citizen's relationship with the state and make it apparent the urgent and immediate need for a radical redefinition of the public sector through deep areas. Unfortunately, it is deeply rooted in our society that the public administration is not working to serve the public interest but to help the individual interests. Corruption in public administration has a significant negative impact, both directly and indirectly, on the country. It is no coincidence that civil servants are taking an oath to commit them to complying with the laws more than other citizens. When we talk about corruption, our first thought is bribery and moneyism. But that's not all. Corruption means mismanagement of state resources, dismantling public money, poor quality of public services, exploitation of confidential information and misuse of power. A common denominator of all the different manifestations of corruption is that they end up at the expense of society as a whole and of the citizen. Corruption has not only an impact on public spaces as a result of mismanagement, but it strengthens social injustice and undermines citizens' confidence in the state, institutions and governments. Corruption strengthens social inequalities, poisons social coexistence and our political system. The Greek public and Greek politics have been blamed more than anyone here would like to admit for conflicts of interest, for customer relations, for favorableism. The non-governmental organisation International Transparency ranks in 2016 Greece in the 69th place among 176 countries in the perception of corruption. Among the Member States of the European Union only Bulgaria was in a lower position than Greece in 2016. According to a recent SAD study, four out of ten operators in Greece consider that corruption and transparency are an important obstacle to the proper functioning of their operations. The Government of New Democracy and the inspiration of today's bill, the Minister, are envisioning a public sector that operates in terms of transparency, integrity and accountability, a public sector vehicle in the course of our country's development. They are envisioning a public sector that operates in the public interest and social justice. This government has committed itself to implementing the necessary reforms that will make our country modern, competitive and citizen-friendly. But no reform can hope for success if public administration is not working properly. Improving the efficiency, efficiency, accountability and integrity of public administration are the country's first reform priorities. The legislative initiative we are debating today introduces arrangements for an integrated internal control system throughout the public sector. The principles, concepts, bodies and bodies responsible for the tasks to be performed shall be regulated. The operating framework of internal control units shall be established. The conditions for safeguarding independence shall be ensured in its implementation. Accounting mechanisms shall be strengthened within each public administration body and compliance with international standards and best practices shall be certified. Corruption and abuse of power are dealt only with control, integrity and accountability. This is the only way to limit opportunities for misuse of power. Internal control is the cornerstone of good governance in the public sector. With control we ensure that public resources are used responsibly and effectively to achieve the results sought. An audit is carried out by means of accountability, and confidence is therefore built between the citizens and the administration. Internal control helps public bodies identify the risks and propose appropriate management methods. Internal audit ensures that citizens' affairs are dealt with in a transparent, fair and honest manner. A cornerstone of good governance according to best international practices is integrity, that is, compliance with values, principles and rules that protect the public interest. The institution of the integrity counsellor, which is first introduced today, is an internationally successful institution that aims to create the conditions for the development and cultivation of the necessary culture, morality and integrity, which must govern the functioning of the public administration, guaranteeing the rights of officials, but at the same time protecting the public and social interest. When a civil servant comes in the performance of his duties in response to cases of corruption, misuse of power, serious anti-social behaviour, and even sexual harassment, he will be addressed to the integrity consultant responsible for providing information, support and advice. I would like to focus on the issue of sexual harassment and say that I am delighted that this important issue has not been forgotten now that noise has been cut off in the media, but that today's bill is being raised as a matter of integrity and morality. Public administration must be an example of behaviour for citizens. It has to work exemplarily. But this cannot be done on its own. We must create the legal framework within which good practices are integrated. We must create the right ground so that the culture of integrity is born, developed and operated. Our poet, Kostas Karyotakis, who was himself a civil servant in an article published in 1928, entitled “Charente of kindness”, wrote: ‘But did the Government do anything to morally strengthen the officials to ensure their independence to relieve them of the party pressures? Even one drachma was not required to do so.’ Today we can say that, yes, the government did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u258	Thank you too, Mrs Biziu, for keeping time, as you promised. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Ragussis, is called on in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u260	You're welcome. And I want you to be calm right here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u261	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Poppas is ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u263	Based on his previous vacation, huh? I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to begin a little, following on from what our rapporteur, Mr Hatzigiannakis, and other fellow Members of the Staff Regulations and other parties of the Opposition, talking about the substance of the bill. Because the truth is that a bill that contains too many articles gives you the opportunity to talk about it, but we must not lose the forest. This is the forest of this bill, what is it? It is the establishment of these integrity advisers and the activation, establishment or - in a way - these have been said to have been established - the positions in operation of internal control units. Question critical, essential to the substance: These famous integrity advisers - well, the units are defined by the Minister - how will they be defined? How will one day come to the ministries, institutions or wherever they arise? On the basis of the draft law, ‘The cover of the positions of integrity advisers will be made following a call for expressions of interest issued by the National Transparency Authority’. I read from the bill itself the first paragraph. I don't know if you've done some legislative improvement on this. If it is, then you tell us, Mr. Voridis. Paragraph 2: ‘The assessment of candidates to cover the position of the integrity consultant shall be carried out by a three-member committee set up by a decision of the Governor of the National Transparency Authority’. That's the sign of the bill. That is to say, the institution of the integrity consultant is being established, others say the incorruptible. How is the integrity counselor defined? Whose decisions are ultimately defined? The National Transparency Authority and its Commander. This is the tachograph. That's the point. Is this a cross-party process from which they will emerge? Oh, no. Is this a worthwhile process whereby these integrity advisers will emerge? Absolutely not. Why? Because who is the commander of the National Transparency Authority and what is the National Transparency Authority? The Commander of the National Transparency Authority, Mr. Bini, is an anarchistically selected in this position, entirely on the basis of the party criteria and his capacity as a friend of Prime Minister Mitsotakis and who took this role. The National Transparency Authority shall be the National Transparency Authority of any other by an independent authority. It's a tough party right-wing system. So what now? They are cloned, multiplyed and filled with the Greek state, they are filled with the public bodies, the ministries, the authorities, the authorities, the self-government, those who are provided with the exact same clones of this very, very hard right-wing system. So that is the essence, it is the taboo of this bill, that it actually comes to spreading a system of high-right all over the public sector, so as not to control the system's best friends. Why not check now that the integrity counsellor chosen by Mr. Bini to the master of a signal that he is 'ours', that he is our child, is ours'. Therefore, control units and integrity advisers are, in fact, control units and non-integral and non-integral counsellors of the right-wing government, on the one hand and on the other, control units of civil servants, civil servants who do not belong to the right-wing system, in the sense that they will obviously attempt - and I say this directly, Mr Voridis - with legitimate and unfair means of putting under their control the state administration, public officials and extortion and with threats and everything that goes through their hands. This system is being established, Mr. Voridis. That's exactly what you're setting up. And you set up this system, because if you didn't want it to be the system you set up, you had all the power to say: the integrity advisers, the integrity advisers, internal control units, internal control units, but over-the-party control, since you ask me in a sense, Mr. Vorides. But you, when you listen to intergrouping, consensual control, meritful procedures, "doing spirals" politically, not individually, because you do not believe in merit, you do not believe in transparency. You believe in the hard right-wing party state, and that is what you are serving, and that is what you are establishing with this bill. Who prevented you from bringing legislation on integrity advisers from being chosen by a cross-party committee? Why, is this not established in our country? The independent authorities, which are constitutionally guaranteed, do not select any president to be subject to this category of independent authorities and members through a three-party increased majority now of 3/5, yes or no? Of course I do. That's the truth. Why don't you do it in this case, since you want to install them and above the head of state officials and civil servants with the label that they'll be in control of them? The best friends won't control them. The others will try to put them under their control. No one's preventing you from doing this. And if you did this, and if a party were to come to this, Mr. Voridis, disagree, then you would have a thousand times to take the flag of merit and transparency yours and to tour all over Greece and denounce all those who would in this case disagree with such a bill. But this bill, whoever serves creativity, transparency and non-partisanism, which has broken up Greece for decades now - not to say centuries - is what you eventually want to apply even right now. When we say now about Mr Bini, who will clone all his copies and all that will be dispersed throughout the state mechanism, we are talking about a man who, as I said before, was chosen by the opaque aptitude procedures, only on the basis that he was a partner and a friend of Mr Mitsotakis and who is now with the regulation you bring here, while you are supposed to bring another worthy process by the law of the state of staff to choose the one that would replace him, you are prolonging his term. In fact, do you extend it to him in such a way that, in fact, everyone who knows and has tried, Mr Vorides, to radiate your bill, do you know what they're saying? That great Greeks and Greek women who can be supreme judges, great scientists either in Greece or abroad, cannot understand this position. It is so photographically the prediction you have made for the continuation of Mr. Bini's stay in this position that you who otherwise want excellence and want to return to the Greeks and you want to promote dignity as the beginning and value in the operation of the Greek state. That's what you do with this bill. You're not doing anything else. You were able to do something else, but neither do you want to believe in something else, which is decency, which is transparency, which is the dignity within the Greek society. Secondly - because they are a little relevant and I will not repeat the arguments of unconstitutionalism and the essential arguments for this infamous article on the APA - I have one question to add, Mr Voridis. You are currently making this provision, because obviously - the world has it - you want - and I do not care about the faces - to continue with the mandate of certain members of the Independent Authority of the Personnel Selection Council, that is to say, the AACC. Is there really no other Greek and other Greek women who could be presidents, vice presidents, members of the ASP? Are the only Greeks that exist today at the ASP and of them - even more specifically - who are your best friends? They say, in fact, that I do not even know what I am interested in - that you were also classmates - and we will also see your choices and suggestions, to be precise, but I am leaving. Honestly, aren't there other Greeks and Greek women? You came and took the government to turn the Greeks into the dispersal back and now you tell them that "You know, I have the Independent Authority, which is the ASEP. I have to appoint a president, vice-president and members, and I do not open up the process of renewing these staff, but I do by law, in order for them to stay for so many years." There is a question above your head, and if they hear us Greek and Greek women who could become hundreds of thousands of members of the ASAP, they must know that with what you are actually doing you are closing the door. You're closing the door to them. It is not just that you enter the logic of rushphetological, party, favorable, clientele. The worst is that you are condemning the exclusion of thousands of Greek and Greek women who could, because they are extremely important and trains, make choices not of the 3/5 of Parliament, but I would tell you of the 5/5 of the Greek Parliament. And one last thing. Mr Vorides, you have decided to open up these days in the country again the debate on facilitating foreign voters when they participate in the national elections. And, of course, I, too, will say that you have already been nailed, because Mr Mitsotakis, before what you said, had already come to announce that you will take such an initiative to change the law, which by this spectacular majority voted on by the Greek Parliament. His Republican right? His Democratic right. However, Mr Voridis, it is not at all serious and at all responsible for you, in particular, not to have the political courage and political responsibility to tell the Greek people: "We introduced a law a year ago for which we were triumphing, first and foremost Mr Mitsotakis. So this is the law we want to change now." Sit down now and hide? Is it really not shameful to hide behind an interview that Mrs. Jackis gave, that Mr. Ragus or Mr. Hatzigiannakis might have given? Is this a level of Greek political leadership for such a critical and decisive issue involving millions of Greeks and Greeks? What are you sitting behind Mrs. Jackie? Why don't you come to the Greek Parliament, why don't you go out to the Greek people and say "We want to change him, because we were wrong, because Theodorikos took us into his neck". Don't hide, that's what it's all about. They said the Greeks who vote will be eight hundred thousand, so we're fine. Until leaks you leaked to newspapers! News releases took place a short time ago with headlines "Out hundred thousand are the ones who will participate in the process as democrats of the next national election". And because you have obviously changed your mind, because you have your own plans - I have an opinion, you are neither interested in me at this time in this debate - instead of coming in and saying clearly 'Here we are, we are reopening this issue', you are sitting here and you are using these, in my opinion, totally unacceptable and cowardly political tactics. Mr. Voridis, another very serious matter. You were at the Ministry of Rural Development. I do not know - and I am not interested in knowing, because at this moment I have the Minister of Interior of the Mitsotakis Government - whether or not you have followed a very, very difficult, very complex, but very important, in my view, a debate that took place in Greece a year ago, not only on the occasion of the vote of this law, of Law No468/2019, but above all on the basis of the constitutional review. Because it is proven and confirmed - not only by you, but also by other positions - what we are saying many times, that miserableness is worse than immortality. So sit down, Mr Voridis, and you say that SYRIZA, the Progressive Alliance, as you used to say about PASOK and every party that basically represented the progressive party, does not want the vote to be taken. Colleagues have broken these arguments. I'd like to ask you something, though. Is it possible to reduce the level of such a public debate, which, even now, you want to open it again at this low level, when we even now hear the arguments we exchanged during the constitutional review and vote for this law in this Chamber a few months ago? Mr Voridis, not SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, but the report by the Council of Europe Committee on Venice - you have not been informed, so I will be tabling it on the Minutes - it says in particular, and if you want to do so, you will make a decision to have a serious debate on this important issue: 'In cases where large countries have large populations abroad, which could have a significant impact on the election result...', SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Voridis, says so, the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe '... seems more appropriate to a system of predefined representatives elected by the citizens of Europe and represented by them in this Parliament. This solution has been adopted by France, for example, in the French senate, 12 senators represent the French foreigners - Italy - twelve Members and four senators represent Italians abroad - Portugal, where Portuguese foreigners are represented by four Members." Do you know what that is, Mr. Voridis? It's our proposal. This is the proposal that we have come to the vote on the bill and the constitutional review. It is the Council of Europe's view. You leave no level of seriousness without breaking into this debate with arguments, such as "Jackrey gave an interview and because Jackrey gave an interview, we are now going to change the law on migrants". Severe zero, unfortunately, Mr. Voridis. In addition to this, Mr Voridis, have you voted in favour of the Constitution in its current version, in its current content? Yes or no? As you know very well, it is a rhetorical question. You voted in favour. What does the revised Article 54 that you voted for and not only did you vote for, but also proposed that it be finalised? What's he saying? I'll tell you what, Mr. Voridis. Paragraph 4 of the Constitution in force: ‘Under the law of the par. Article 51 may lay down conditions for the exercise of the electoral right, at their place of residence by voters residing outside the territory, such as a genuine link with the country, a personal presence in an election station, an absence time from the country or a presence in the country for a certain period of time in the past. It may be laid down by the law of the previous subparagraph that a number of positions on each party's vote in favour may be laid down. 3 of this article is necessarily occupied by Greek expatriates.' And where does it end? Note now that it concludes, with your own proposal: "The law may provide that the vote of voters who vote in elections outside the territory - says the Constitution in Article 54 - is not counted in a particular constituency, but only on a sovereign level". You have proposed that the vote should not be taken for the election of Members, that is to say, you and all, by extension, and that they should be counted at the highest level. This is the Greek Constitution you have voted for. So you, coming to this low level today, have to be faced with a ruthless truth: in our country there are also two models to facilitate the election of each country's foreign electorate. A model is what the Council of Europe has actually recommended, namely that when the number of emigrants - French, Greek, Israeli, Italian, Irish and Portuguese - are very large, then restrictions are introduced for the search and calibration of each voter's real tie with his homeland, in order to measure his vote in the final result. That's the one model. The other model is that it is free to participate the voters in the elections, without understanding whether or not they maintain a real relationship with the country, but in this case they choose to elect their own MPs for the Greek Parliament. Other countries have 12, other countries have six, we have proposed five and four. This is the case at the moment, as you also know, because in this forced compromise, it was not foreseen that Greeks will elect their own MPs, as foreseen by our proposal. Mr. Voridis, we've been public too. It seems that your logic in this draft which you are bringing to the committee tomorrow is fully revealed. By the way, if you decide or accept any accidental proposal tomorrow to suspend the normal motion for a resolution that you bring and go later to debate, I think that will confirm your urgency and carelessness in the handling you are doing in this crucial and major issue for the Greek people and Greek expatriates. Tomorrow we will know what your answer will be to various information that Mr Hatzigiannakis has told you. He didn't ask the question by accident. They have already been in circulation since the beginning of the meeting. I'm going to go somewhere here, ladies and gentlemen. So I was saying this, in addition to all of this, your logic is revealed by the fact that even in this draft law you did not come to say: "I changed my mind. Mr. Theodorikos took us into his neck. We have been battling, we have been exposed, we do not know what is happening to us, and that is why we want to change the law, but you have gone and put in and proposed provisions with which you have no reason to interfere, such as the abolition of the intergroup audit committee of the new special electoral lists that will be formed for the first time in the run-up to national elections from the entry to those demigrants who will want to participate in the national elections, using the provisions of the law to facilitate their voting. I shall now close, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by saying to you, Mr Voridis, this is a more general point, and it concerns this bill as a whole. I do not know whether or not you can already think about it, because I do not think that your political experience is small. There are two kinds of bills. There are bills that become state law and then these laws speak out of Parliament positively and in a way of expressing admiration to citizens, institutions and representatives of civil society. There are bills that have become laws of the state and only those who have recommended them. This bill that you are bringing today has precisely this logic of extending and enlarging the harsh right state to the public sector - I have no doubt at all that it belongs to the second category - that is, a bill, which, when it becomes a law of the state, is the only ones you are going to be talking about. As regards the hundreds of thousands of civil servants, it is certain that one of their main demands over time will be the abolition of this law, which is expected to be adopted by the Greek Parliament in a little while. Of course, there is a chance that there will also be a third category of bills and laws, Mr Voridis. And there is, in my opinion, the certainty that this bill also belongs to them. It's those bills that you don't want to talk about after a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u264	Thank you too, Mr Ragosi. Now Mr. Kalamatiano has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin my position on the major and crucial issue of pandemic. The situation is worse than ever. We should not get used to this grim situation and we have a duty to constantly highlight it in the public debate. By the end of October 2020, we had six hundred six losses from the virus. After five months of the toughest and longer-term lockdown across Europe, with foreign-proof measures that are constantly being modified, we have reached nine thousand dead and daily over eight hundred intruders and four thousand cases. Unfortunately, we have every day and more than a hundred patients who need intensive treatment and do not find a position instantly. The government's failure to manage the health crisis is evidenced by the evolution of things. Instead of the government realising the dramatic situation and implementing, even now, a structured plan to tackle the crisis, it is always trying to blame the others, the youth, the citizens with individual responsibility, the opposition, and especially the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. You must come together and show your responsibility for this difficult and dramatic situation at last. I now come to the question of the vote of the Greeks in the diaspora. Mr Vorides and the government as a whole have been ready for some time for an impression and are trying to take advantage of the very serious issue of the vote on the frustrations. It is obvious that he is trying to distort reality and mislead the Greeks of the diaspora for tiny and voting reasons. He's trying to blur the waters while the SYRIZA's position and attitude is clear. It's been the same and stable for years. Others changed their position and now they appear honorers. It is clear that the proposal for a revision of the SYRIZA provided for a specific number of MPs elected in broader electoral districts of permanent establishment from the Greek Democratic Republic, with a single ballot in each of them, without limitations other than the Greek citizen's status. Because we have never played or played elections, micro-political and micro-group games on the back of the avenues, and because we wanted them to participate in the electoral process, we consented to an intergroup proposal that was only a few months ago by the large majority of Parliament. Now what happened, Minister, and you changed your mind? What's happened and you're bringing in a new provision of bread? Looks like something isn't coming out of you and you had it ready and you bring it...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u266	Mr. Kalamatiano, we didn't hear you. Repeat your last proposal from the beginning, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u267	I repeat that it is not possible for the Ministry and the government to deal with such sloppy, petty and greedy issues. So leave the communal tricks and respect the Constitution, the parliamentary procedures and the migrant Greeks. I now come to the bill under discussion. Most of its provisions are repetition or stitching of previous provisions. The new provisions you bring either greatly alter public administration by introducing foreign institutions to the Greek reality, or are completely Rusphetological and clienteles. With the new arrangements for the committees, for many years you have transferred the responsibilities of elected consultants. Since you slowly took over - you have slowed down the simple analogue and did not respect the people's vote in the 2019 elections for local government. With multiple laws - seven you have voted so far and they do not reach you seems - you are trying to bring the things where you think it is of interest to you. You gradually remove the city council from responsibilities and give it to the Economic Committee. You've made the city council a decorative instrument. I'm coming to the internal control now. Obviously, we are in favour of any kind of control that works for the benefit of the public interest and will protect both public money and the goodwill of the public administration. However, an internal audit procedure cannot be carried out when it comes directly to the responsibility and control of the head of the same body. Also, there is no provision in your bill for merital and transparent procedures at both the level of staffing of internal control units and the level of selection of heads of these units. Independence is obviously a pretext. Which operational independence is ensured by the organisational subdivision of the internal control unit directly to the head of the organisation? Other questions arise. Really, what purpose does the integrity counselor perform? What will it bring to the public administration? Actually, he's gonna be a post-consultation counselor. Your aim is to circumvent civil servants who have an obligation of objectivity and impartiality. You intend to replace them with posters and make other changes with the assignment of public authority to occupants. And, of course, you do not plan to ensure transparency and dignity in the process of selecting the integrity consultant, which will not be carried out by the AACC. On the other hand, a committee set up by a decision of the Governor of the National Transparency Authority is to be set up. He, however, has not been chosen by a specific aptitude process. It works and there is a personal choice of the Prime Minister. He's the Prime Minister's chosen one, as you legislated. Mr President, I am closing down with the ADP provision. It's not just a sign of a bad legacy. It's absolutely photographic in order to check who's going to be president of the ADP. ASEAN is a very high institution in the respect of citizens and has their respect. Since its inception, it is a guarantee of proper functioning and integrity. Just two and a half months after your own bill that extended the terms of the Vice-Presidents of the AACC you are now coming and legislate again to allow promotions and to achieve your goal. So please consider this: whoever serves as a Vice-President or a member may be appointed in a superior position, thus in the position of the President for another six years. In fact, you are putting Vice-Presidents and members of the PES, because they will expect from each government that they may be promoted to presidents or vice-presidents by the provision you bring. You are attempting to degrade the AAP to a controlled organ. All in all, therefore, this bill is another bill aimed at altering the non-discriminatory and worthyness of the Public Administration and its perfume. But you must realize that you will not be ruled forever. That's how it's done in democracy. And when you leave, you will have left a client state behind again, which will be far from the European rule of law that we envision. And there will come a progressive governance to put it back on the tracks of merit and impartiality, to truly serve citizens. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr. Kalamatiano. From the Prefecture of Ilias we will now go to the Prefecture of Fthiotis and Mr. Georgios Kotroias from the New Democracy. And to prepare Mr George Amanatidis from New Democracy, to which I wish him by way of'sinters'. Mr. Kotria, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as an old self-government, allow me first of all to comment: Self-government as a fundamental social and development institution I believe that it is lucky that the New Democracy has come out, because the law of SYRIZA would today be a political mess of political trade, inertia, inefficiency and inefficiency. Mr President, for many years I have exercised command as mayor and allow me to transfer you some of my experience on internal control to the public. Employees of all grades, who have been accustomed to working for many years in an environment of relaxation and flooding of all kinds of controls, have often relaxed the required procedures for carrying out their duties or become financially tempted. Other times also due to confrontation or special sympathy there were phenomena of personality inflicting the service structure in all public services. The problem we had up to now is that all kinds of misconduct stayed at the level of gossip, since they wanted to do so, some people were not going to expose these violations, afraid to get into trouble. So the mistakes are perpetuated, the wicked continue to thrive, the public administration system is not improved, and if it breaks into the hands of the administration a case is the one that is first called upon to account to the courts for its own omissions or its own uncertainties, which have erupted these all kinds of corruption. I can assure you from experience that 90% of cases in the municipalities of the country which led the public administration inspector to speak badly about them are such cases that, however, do not stop leading the mayors for many years to the courts, since they, regardless of their previous professional status, represent the body and must protect it against irregularities and illegality. The amateur and voluntary nature of self-government and especially of young mayors, who are left to operate with many external controls, but with an ineffective internal control framework that could prevent many events in the day, unfortunately does not promote a modern administration, but perpetuates a system of irregularities, excesses and immunity, because they are usually done and whispered among the officials. The question is how whispers and gossip will be made responsible for a complaint, which, with understanding, trust, efficiency, manipulated by corruption, but also by a qualified person, will help to correct and restore morality or economic and management legitimacy for the benefit of the administration, so for the benefit of the trading Greek citizen. To date the internal control regime due to the overlapping of responsibilities, vagueness and the absence of confidentiality has been as if there were no. This bill clearly illustrates the Ministry's initiative to strengthen and modernise the public sector through a system of preventive, continuous and objective control. Through the first and second part of this is the establishment of an integrated internal control system for all public sector bodies based on international audit standards, as well as the establishment of the integrity adviser in public administration, with the main aim of ensuring and strengthening accountability and integrity mechanisms for public bodies. In particular, the framework and procedures for carrying out the audit work shall be laid down in the first part of this Regulation. Entities shall delimit their internal control system and, for the first time, shall be required to fully record and keep up-to-date the procedures relating to all their functions and actions. The structure, responsibilities and roles within the internal control system shall be determined, while the independence of its operation shall be guaranteed. In addition, the framework for organisation, staffing and operation of internal control units is defined and their objectives and responsibilities are described in detail. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] The clear distribution of powers by supervisory bodies and bodies is due to this bill that it will eliminate the duplication of tasks, which have often been the opposite of the desired results in the past. The purpose, responsibility and position of internal audit units in the organisational structure of the audit entity shall be determined by the rules of operation of the internal audit unit, and a code of conduct of internal auditors shall be established on the basis of international standards. Another innovation in this draft law is the mandatory receipt of internal auditor’s auditing certificates, provided for the members of the internal audit unit, with obvious benefits in upgrading the public sector. In the second part of the bill, the institution of the integrity consultant is introduced for the first time to public administration bodies, mainly responsible for the protection of civil servants against incidents of corruption, misuse of power or breach of integrity by colleagues or heads. The role of the integrity consultant is mainly supportive, informative and advisory. This institution is primarily aimed at the part of preventing irregular and infringing behaviours by creating a framework of regulations to foster a climate of trust and cooperation. In this climate, workers will be able to carry out their duties in an uninterrupted manner. The integrity officer shall have disciplinary responsibility for acts or omissions in the performance of his duties and shall have the obligation to operate in integrity and impartiality, to act in the public interest and to observe the rules of confidentiality and confidentiality. Indeed, he is required to sign a declaration of confidentiality, which is still valid for five years after the end of his term of office. The selection of candidates shall be based on their required formal and additional qualifications, while the final selection may include an interview of the three most predominant candidates, the evaluation of which shall be carried out by a three-member committee, namely by decision of the Governor of the National Transparency Authority, and any selected candidate shall have a three-year term of office. In conclusion, I think it is clear that with the present state of affairs there is a conscious attempt to create the framework to lay the foundations for internal control and transparency in the public sector to take a concrete form and for the first time to be able to expect the results to be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Amanatidis has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the public administration's problems have been known to be over the years and, of course, have been identified for decades. In all the experts' reports on the administrative organisation's issues, its malfunctions were pointed out. It's not enough, of course, that's all. Since the 1960s each government has also drawn up a reform programme to achieve what expert reports had shown to be necessary. With this as a given, let me take it because I consider it very important, I enter the draft law which the House is discussing. With Part I, Articles 1 to 22 of the draft law, accountability mechanisms are strengthened within each public administration body. What's going on? A system of internal control is defined and the internal control units which will serve it. Because in my earlier career I have dealt with the relevant issues, I have seen how positive these efforts are and what added value they offer to a quality and speed organization. The question is, of course, was this reform necessary? Yes, it was necessary. First of all, because everything we say must be done and we must say it, already in Article 39 of Law 4622/2019, in the state of service as it is known, internal control units were also foreseen, and therefore these arrangements are consistent with forecasts and, above all, believe that they are useful. On the second issue, the existing legislative framework is characterised by fragmentation of the regulations because of which there is certainly ineffective. Therefore, a comprehensive plan had to be drawn up to serve a national strategy. It is for this reason a long-standing cut in the private sector and it also applies to the public sector of advanced states, where the result of the operation of public administration and measurable is and can be said to be also rewardable. So here's a way to do this. What criticism was made by the institutions and parties in the articles in Part One? First, some said that internal audit units had already been established. As the Minister rightly said, there is one provision since 2006 which, while legislating the internal auditor procedure, was not legislated by the internal audit unit. So, it was a bell, I'd say a set that was ineffective. The second point of criticism is where the staff will be found. The Minister responded in particular to this and in particular to the fact that this is the subject of a secondary framework of decisions regulating the conditions and the way. Continuing, in the second part, the integrity adviser is provided for. The integrity officer is not a commander, does not perform disciplinary or administrative control as we have said. It's actually the worker's exotic. So the integrity counselor should have wanted him first, and then the employer - public. Therefore, he is a employee partner, receives messages, problems, concerns and as an intermediary he transfers them to the next level that is, of course, the level of administration. In this sense, it is a very useful mechanism and I will repeat that workers could ask themselves for it. Continuing, I am standing in Article 45 because it concerns the areas of defoliation, which are supported by incentives to support the permanent residents of the region through mobilisation, as part of the full-scale written invitation to tender for recruitment to the public through the AACC. Because of locality, I know how important it is and how important it will help to keep the population in our region. On this occasion, I would like to thank the Minister for the provision, which I must conclude with another proposal that I made to the former Minister, Mr Theodorikos, adopted in Article 12 of Law 4765/2021. Thus, practical support for regions in transition is reflected as a result of liberation. This whole package includes the selection of staff in the public sector by means of a written tender, the selection of staff on objective criteria and, finally, the staff with a fixed-term employment relationship. I should also like to stress another thing that I discussed with the Minister in the previous days. Article 49 provides for the possibility of extending public primary and secondary schools leases due to the current economic situation. I asked for it, and I do not know whether any legislative improvements were made in the course of the procedure, to remove the expression in paragraph 3 of this article, which actually gives the possibility of extending for Cylons Conventions to 30-6-2021. I say this because the crisis was two years old and I think it would be fair for all contracts to be extended to take place, and they are active. To close slowly, you will allow me to speak on the questions of the Economic Committee, Article 38. A great deal of criticism has been made on this issue. In my opinion, the criticism that has been made is not correct. I'll tell you why. It has been criticised that the Economic Commission is empowered by a municipality or region to recruit staff for the purpose of emergency, seasonal or temporary needs and, respectively, by the proxy lawyer. Why, then, is this not the criticism correct? Because, ladies and gentlemen, I imagine a regional and municipal council, which will discuss the prospects of the place it manages, discuss the visions, methods of tackling unemployment, how to support jobs, how to exploit natural resources, how to promote local issues within a regional and national planning framework, and not whether to make a decision, which must, in any case, be taken to serve current and urgent needs. The fact that the mechanism is urgent, does the services not assess it as such and suggest it? I would also like to add that I agree with the explanation given by the Minister on this matter. All together, they really create a certainty and security that this is necessary. Let me just give you one example. Do you know that the regional council decides on how to carry out a project that the legislation itself provides for, depending on the budget of the project? We have dozens of issues on the regional councils, instead of the members of the regional council dealing with other issues. In conclusion, I would like to say that for these two articles, that is, Article 38 and Article 54, which has already been mentioned in the previous SPS, opposition claims that it should not pass this draft law. What we want and for which we must all continue is public efficiency, a productive and flexible public, fast and non- bureaucratic, a public one, and we must realise that the work it produces, such as an industry, is measurable and we must judge it from the measurable result, but we must give it the necessary supplies to have a measurable effect. In conclusion, I would like to say that we want a public who will not treat the citizen as a commander, but will treat him as a user of his services, which he certainly needs. With these considerations it is clear that I am voting in favour of the draft law because I think it also aims to achieve it. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u272	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing is not what it seems. Its content does not correspond to the purpose it is supposed to perform. It is, moreover, common to this practice of the New Democracy, and yet it runs counter to the policy pursued by the Government of New Democracy. The current bill appears by the government to include a framework of rules for combating corruption, opacity and prudence in public administration and an institutional intervention to control the bodies of these pathogens in the public sector. On that basis, the Government presents any disagreement or objection concerning its content, that it conceals the support of practical customer relations and that it is directed against transparency and accountability in the public. However, the reality that the country and the citizens are experiencing and regardless of what systemic, well-known media shows another picture of the government's political and legislative initiatives with which corruption, opacity and plight are perpetuating. Let us not forget that the current government taking advantage of pandemic, using pandemic as a press and as a pretext, has made derogating arrangements and direct awards normal. It has also made the appointment of a large number of posted officials with non-ACP procedures. It is that government which abolished by merging the prosecutor corruption and which voted for the anti-constitutional provision on the retrospective ambiguity of senior bank officials in cases of malicious infidelity, but also for many other relevant regulations. It is at least hypocritical, therefore, that this government should accuse the Civic Opposition of combating corruption. Internal audit procedures already exist in the public administration. The problem identified is the presence of multiple control mechanisms with conflicting or overlapping responsibilities and without synergies. These lead to the inefficiency of controls.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Papaliou, can you hear me? It's been interrupted. If we can go to the next speaker where Mr Couvelas is. Mr. Kouvela, can you hear me? Is Mr. Papaliou listening? Ladies and gentlemen, the connection between Mr Papapieliou and Mr Kouvella is stuck. Minister, would you like to take the floor to continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u275	Madam President, in your judgment...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u276	Madam President, because we have some amendments that we want to do little to develop, we have also said to the Minister and to colleagues whether or not our abbreviations can be preceded by a reply by the Minister in total, if there is no objection from my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u277	Good, since the Minister has no objection. Mr. Comrade, you too?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u278	Madam President, I would like to make a clarification. I have no objection to what my colleague said. I would simply like the Minister to say more forward about the amendments which we have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u279	Madam President, I am ready, especially for the JRC's amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u280	Good. Come on, Minister. Mr. Papaliou, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u281	Madam President, I am not done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u282	You've never heard of it, Mr. Papaliou. Because we continued, I tried so long to get in touch with you, but you weren't listening to the room. I would ask you to send your speech to present it to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u283	May I speak after that, Madam President? Please, it was my turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u284	The Minister will be speaking, please, and I will give you the floor immediately after which Members will be given the floor to put them on the amendments that the Minister will be put on, but also on his position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u285	I don't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u286	I'm sorry, but we've been trying long enough to get in touch with you and it was impossible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u287	So I'll talk later, so I know?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u288	Yeah, then. I told you clearly. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u289	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues as a whole for their contribution to this debate. Let me refer to a number of key issues. We're going to our counter-thematics then. However, let us stick to what this bill really does, whether it is worthwhile, what its added value is and whether, in any case, on this issue raised by the bill to this House there has been a position on this issue. Let me make a point of order, first of all, which I have heard and which I think is completely unstable. I have heard a great deal of criticism about the issues of good legislation. Excuse me very much, this bill was put into consultation, the consultation process on its main issues has normally been completed. Because this bill is its central body, it is the two issues that cover, that is, internal control and the integrity consultant. These are the two main institutions that introduce the bill. Then I heard criticism because - he says - it includes other provisions, which were, by the way, incorporated into the bill's trunk. They have therefore been tabled with the whole bill, not as amendments. There are indeed other provisions, but in the trunk of the bill. Two amendments were tabled by the Ministry of the Interior and the two in due course, one in committee and the other in plenary. I don't understand what you're saying. What's the violation, which has happened? Are you all here newly elected? Did you come yesterday? Because we are some people who have been through here. We have passed dozens of amendments to SYRIZA late, tabled on the last day of the procedure. And now you ask me for a misrepresentation when all of them are in the short term, all of them related to the objects of the Ministry of the Interior, others have been put to the body of the bill, and for those that have been tabled in plenary have you been informed orally by the committee? I'm not watching you. What are you talking about? Unless you mean that we do not table any amendments, which, from people who have been Members of Parliament for years and ministers, are not allowed to say so. Why isn't it allowed to be called? This is an issue that we have discussed many times. The fact that legislation is extremely complex and requires intervention, which is very many times, without a total change in the bill does not mean that we have to wait for a specific provision to be changed when the whole bill is changed. Private problems arise, which we are dealing with. Shouldn't you? So this criticism of good lawmaking is not going to make it to me. I respect the principles of good legislation. I'm doing everything I've said. And all I've said is that I'm applying. So we're done with this. It is a sterile, unjust, unnecessary criticism, which makes no sense. We shall now proceed to a second matter. What's this bill doing? Does it have added value? Let's go to the internal control. First and foremost for this House, in particular for those who are voting against the provisions, first of all, please. Do we need internal public control? Can you get a seat? Yes or no? Because if you say yes, you have agreed in principle. If you tell me it's unnecessary, then you tell me something else. I didn't hear no from anyone. You say yes. So, what are your objections and why do your objections not take an objection to the articles? It's your problem. However, I speculate and understand that it is not reasonable and understandable to tell me that there should be no internal control of the public, because that is the beginning. To exist or not exist? Now let's go to how we organize it. Is this bill, first of all, added value? One will rise and say: 'But, you know, a provision has been passed in 2006'. There was this one setup. Question: Did you read this one provision in 2006? Because this one provision did not have internal control over all public bodies. So, are we doing well to expand internal control over all public bodies? I will be answered by diligent Mr Hatzigiannakis: "Yes, but in the final state you brought a provision in 2019 that you regulated the internal control issue. Why do you bring it back?’ Right? Wouldn't you tell me that? You had it in your head. Well done. So I'm saying now. But do we have anything to add here from what we did in 2019 to respond to your objections and objections? Because in 2019, what we were building was an internal control unit. Right? That's what we were making. Now, what do we make? We're building an internal control system. Let's go see something else. There are two structures to which you can object. One is to say "you know, I disagree with architecture. You make it wrong, you shouldn't have made it that way, you had to fix it otherwise." Something Mr. Ragus said about it. I'll answer for that in a minute. The second thing you can say is "good make it" or "build it well in most places, but it won't apply to a, b, c word". I have this reservation as a second-class objection. Let's go to the first. What am I making an additional to see if it has added value? I'm building an internal control system, not an internal control unit. Why am I building an internal control system? Because for the first time I define definitions, for the first time I connect the internal control system with this draft law, with the best, best international practices. They're imprinted on the inside. For the first time I'm building an audit committee, which controls the internal control unit. For the first time, I am going through this whole process of monitoring and monitoring the principle of transparency. For the first time here I introduce the need for a certified auditor. And for the first time here I put the training process in order to certify this controller. I don't understand, is there a little? Is it a little? Mr. Raguss is excited. Looks very little to him. For so many years Mr Ragus and PASOK have done more to SYRIZA. But, to be serious, he left the order as it was in 2006. No, Mr Raguss, but the parties he served as Minister and then, as a Member of Parliament. So I take the criticism from someone who did more, but the criticism from someone who did nothing, it's hard. This criticism should be more humble and modest and careful. We shall now proceed to the objections. I have heard two major objections. And I must say that the rapporteur from Mera25 and the parliamentary representative also made some interesting remarks. In any case, they have been bothered to study and place themselves in spite of the disagreements. Now let's go and see what the disagreements were. First observation. He's dependent on internal control. Why is he addicted? He's dependent because he's in charge of the agency. Where would you like to take him? Somewhere out. Where out? To an independent authority. But are we going to do another independent audit authority other than the Transparency Authority to which we are subject? Are we going to do another one? Mr. Raguss had a better idea than SYRIZA's lately likers. It's the cross-party consensus. We will gather and decide which employee - now listen to what we decide - will go to the internal control unit. The parties will decide that for the clerk. Brilliant! Another? Any other ideas? Why just on the inside? Why don't we go to the staffing councils and do this? Shall we put the parties in command? So the answer is no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u290	Haven't we done that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u291	The APRC is an independent authority, let me, which, of course, decides under certain conditions, by specific procedures and in a specific way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u292	Where is it decided? From the parties, from the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u293	From which parties? What do you think? What are you talking about? How does the Board of Directors decide?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u294	The composition of the SAEP.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u295	In Mr Ragosi's mind, to understand now how revealing and interesting the mind of Mr Ragosi is, the fact that initially there is an agreement of the Conference of Presidents under the terms of the Constitution to select the administration means that the parties then intervene in all the individual options that the ADP makes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u296	The ADP is interfering with...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u297	Let go, Mr. Ragossi, I understand. So let's get things straight. That is why you are also confused with the other provision. That is why you are making mistaken criticism of the other provision. Because in your mind the fact that some initial choices are made through a political process means that everything is then party. Let me ask you something. The leadership of justice, who decides it? I'll answer you. After the procedure that we know within this House, the Ministerial Council. Does this mean that justice is party and that the parties are interfering with justice? Obviously why in your mind the original option is not disconnected from the aftermath. But the whole system structure is exactly disconnected. Because yes, there is an initial choice, which must be made by someone, and made by the Conference of Presidents, by the Ministerial Council, whoever is made, obviously by the person who has the opportunity to decide, but then we shield ourselves with personal and operational independence precisely to stop this intervention. Otherwise, the whole system is cancelled if we think this is still coming down. So that's very easy and I'm wasting time explaining it. I just ask what should be done. Be careful, because Mr Ragus presented it here and thankfully not others. The hard state of the right. So I, as a hard-on-right, admit it so you don't have to worry - do this. Listen, Mr Ragosi, what the evil I thought I would do, 'the dark prince'. So I do this: I will do - the hard right - the integrity consultant, who hears what he will do to manipulate the officials. That's what you're saying. It will provide them with personalised counselling on ethical and integrity issues. He will receive reports from the officials on cases of breaches of integrity or corruption. He will monitor the staff member's referral procedure. It will provide information to its staff on ethical and integrity issues. It will design and coordinate training and capacity building actions for its employees. It will be involved in developing internal policies and developing tools to enhance integrity and transparency, such as codes of conduct, management regulations. It will inform and cooperate with the internal audit unit and the organisational unit on issues of administrative support and human resources. It will formulate proposals for improving mechanisms for preventing, preventing and detecting when detecting incidents of integrity infringements and drawing up a report. This is how the hard state of the right is built, with it. In other words, a man who works supportively for the employee who faces issues, problems that meets them in the service. They may be cases of sexual harassment, may be cases of political fraud, may be instances of corruption, may be marginal cases of difficult and complicated relationships within his service. And he will work supportively, counsellingly, running directions. So, colleague, we built the hard state of the right. Well, it was revealed, Mr. Raguss revealed it to us. I do not know where you have this suspicion, which is not based on the texts of the law. I don't know why you think that anyone who has established this institution, I don't know how you've worked it out in your mind, because I'm trying to think with the most twisted thought how that could come out, because it's not coming out. And with the most twisted thought, it doesn't come out. What can we do? Even in the matter of internal control, it has not yet been understood what internal control is. I'll say it again once again. When we have tried to deal with internal control by repressive means, corruption repressively, we have a great problem of effectiveness. Why do we have this? We'll talk a little after that. Because, as I said in committee, the private interest is private, it always has a voice. If Mr. Hatzigiannakis, Mr. Vorides is involved in his private interests, he raises his hand, he shouts, he goes to court, he appeals, he sues, he files for lawsuits, protects the private interest. Who protects the public interest? The public minister. If the official decides that he will not protect it, but rather that he will collide with the person who wants to harm it, the public interest is shouting, he speaks? How do we get that? Answer: We don't get it. This is the great difficulty of dealing with corruption in the public. Should we make an admission in this Chamber, that we should prioritise corruption, that we should see our country come out of the bad accusation that SYRIZA left us from the bad ranking? For in words, we have had four and a half years of talk, of theories, of the relationship between capital and the media and corrupt political and investigative committees and committees of inquiry, which have produced nothing. And go work systematically and methodically to deal with it? So let us say that we want to do this and say that the basic tool to do this, along with the repressive tools, together with the deterrent tools, together with the Criminal Code - Mr Ragonis, get ready - along with all that we need to do to deal with corruption repressively, but next to us, we have to have a preventive mechanism? And I explained to you what the preventive mechanism is. Safety valves, process control, establishment of procedures, definition of authorities responsible for respecting procedures. Question: Since 2006, how much has been done with this original provision? To this friend, Mr. Hatzyannakis, excellent suggestion. You told us about the organisms SYRIZA did. How many such procedures have been put in place for your day? So we must admit that this has not been done? Should we put on the causes that haven't happened? It's hard. There are no trained employees. We have to testify to them. We have to teach them how to do it. Do we have to agree to do this? But that's what the bill says. I've heard one more reservation. Mr. Ragosi, also a detail here. Because he who is committed to dealing with corruption has to prove it to us, SYRIZA must explain to us why he has turned corruption from a felony into an election flood and answered the former Minister of Justice, Mr. Kontonis, who says he will go to the prosecutor and tell us about this particular case, since we are talking about corruption at a repressive level. SYRIZA needs to explain why he currently has a accused formerly persecuted minister for moral automobile abuse and a controlled second former minister. It must explain that, in the name of integrity and the fight against corruption. I don't generalize, you generalize. I'm not saying that a party is all corrupt. I'm saying there might be incidents. You guys want to present my party as a caricature. I don't want to do that. But when you do, however, you want a lot of courage and ruthlessness, while you have this history and the time your own people denounce these. I didn't report it, I didn't say I knew what the case was about the felony of a felony. I didn't say that. Minister told you that. We must therefore go to a positive step, say that this must be done. The next objection I have heard is that we are opening the door to private interests. Mr. Hatzigiannakis, your first placement was much better than the next one. Because you have experience of a small municipality, because you have experience of the needs of the small municipality at the level of internal control, you know that it is not always easy to develop to such an extent at the level of internal control, and so, yes, you may need to go back to a private audit company to follow the internal control system. Where is this so bad, when we put this as an alternative and when it cannot be fulfilled within the public authorities? Why is it so bad? What would you suggest? What would be the answer? Shall we leave him without internal control? They ask the same people, the municipalities ask, the mayors ask. So there is a lame and sterile criticism, full of suspicion, teratology and excesses, which is aimed at some reflexes, I suppose, which I slowly imagine will be overcome, even on the left, fears that they will be persecuted, that they will be chased, all this suspicion, which has nothing to do with it anymore and is not verified by things and has no impact on society as well. So we should go to see, in my opinion - obviously you do not want and cannot do so - creatively. I have also heard terrible personal criticism and let me say a few words sometimes. Mr Bini was present - who of all now, Mr Bini - as implementer of the plan of the hard right. Binnie. We told you to tell me something's going on and it's coming. But to Beanie? Is that possible now? We are talking about a man who has a distinct and bright international course on issues of integrity and transparency, about a man who has spent endless hours, in twenty different international organisations, working on this issue. And you're telling me that his virtue is that he's a friend of Mitsotakis. I don't know if it is. I don't think it's the worst thing to tell you the truth, being a friend of Mitsotakis. But in any case, obviously, his virtue in this position is not that he is a friend of Mitsotakis. And you blame me for giving additional molecules to international experience, while it is crucial for someone to know what international organisations are demanding to deal with corruption. Do you want us to go up any position or always be the last of us, as we have been for your days? Do you want to know what international standards are? Do we want anyone to have international experience? Do we want to know what international organisations want to improve the country's situation at the level of corruption or not? You blamed me for this story with the SAAP. We talked a lot, but because I don't like it being hinted, we need to clarify it. You're talking about Mr. Papaioannou. Mr. Thanos Papaioannou is now Vice-President of SAEP. Right? And because they hear words, yes, he was my classmate. True. As also true, Mr Ragosisi, who you do not know, is that he was my political opponent at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u298	I didn't say names, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u299	I say it because I don't like blurred waters. Clear words!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u300	So answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u301	I answer you to insinuating, half-words, because I, as you know, have nothing to fear in my life for anything, I like everything to be up. And I ask: was Georgios Papaioannou, Mr Ragosi, in the government of George Papandreou in the House? Were you a minister of this government? Was he bad then? His virtue is that he's my classmate? The man who has been a secretary of the House for five years and is already another five years Vice-President of the SAPA. That's the man we're talking about. And you're reducing him like that? This man was your partner. I don't know what it is now. But this route has. And we're sitting there talking about this? No, you're not gonna say it underneath, and then I'm gonna do what I didn't hear, it doesn't play it. Either you don't say it at all or we'll talk about it all. To clean things up, because I tell you, I have nothing to fear about. So why are you waiving this procedure? I am not going to say the other thing, because I think we have made it clear. I close, saying this, I heard a lot about what we do to the municipalities. What exactly do we do to the municipalities? We allow them to make a decision. That's what we do to the municipalities. How will the municipal councils be governed internally, Mr Hatzigiannakis, how will decisions be made? There has been the relative majority, the majority of the combination and the majority of the combination cannot implement its policy. Any ideas? To achieve my consensus, you say. In other words, the mayor who wants to implement his programme cannot implement his programme, although he has been elected mayor and is a relatively majority, but he must be in a permanent transaction, which is also changing, with combinations with those who have received much less votes than his own. That's the electoral system you've built. Of course they cannot be governed. So what do we do? Yes, we give them the opportunity to rule. It's very simple. And we don't do it because of the mayors. We do so in the interests of the people, and we do so, and thanks to democracy. And we do so because the relative majority yes, it is a majority, as opposed to those who want to turn minority groups into dominant ones. Minorities cannot be governed. The basic democratic principle is that the majority is governed. So that's what we're doing. We're collecting the benefits of your own law and ask whoever you want in the self-government that has an administration, runs a municipality, tell you what goes through the law that you brought, tell you if it can be effective in favour of its citizens, tell you if it can bring any particular results. So this is a series of interventions. I'm ending up with a word about the emigrants. I'll see you in a long time, comfortably. But I wanted to ask you why you invoked the Constitution. I read the Constitution and it says: 'The law may provide that the vote of voters who vote in elections outside the territory is not counted', that is what you read, Mr Ragosi, 'in a particular constituency, but only on the ground'. What did you understand from that? That gives you the possibility not to count on their vote at ground level? Because he says exactly the opposite. He says that someone who votes in Germany may not have to count on him to be registered in Carditsa in the Karditsa constituency, but you count it on the ground. Does he say somewhere you're not going to count on her? You're gonna take her out of the total count? Is that what you read from the Constitution? He wants to try this again. I shall now refer to the amendments, Mr Co-Chairman. One, as you know, is not my responsibility. So it's a matter of the Ministry of Education, it's not mine, I can't answer you. I'm obviously rejecting it. I don't have the opinion here of the relevant Minister. I couldn't accept her without her presence. For the second amendment, which concerns expenditure, you will give me a little more time to discuss this with the General Accounting Office. I cannot accept it because it has been spent, so it comes from the House, as you know it is not accepted. It needs more discussion, because it has additional expenditure, even as to how the sums are collected. To get you to the debate a little bit, Mr. Synthrakis and the JRC have made a proposal on various expenditure which is for legal expenses in defence at criminal and civil level, which we are now regulating - to say this, we are now putting the defence at urban level and the payment of expenditure - while that is being done in an accountable manner. So what? After the court is finished and the employee is judged innocent and the lawsuit won, then we give the money, says Mr. Synthrakis that he would like to be paid in advance and offset. This is because it has expenditure and is also the way of offsetting, and so it is the Ministry of Finance, I still do not have the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, I am going to tell you about it, and I shall also consider this regulation in general. So, at the moment, I cannot accept them. Of course, the ministers are accepted. Two of the SYRIZA are rejected, for which I also have no competence. Now, let me make a little remark so that we can close down. You ask me for good legislation, but you are tabling amendments, which have nothing to do with the Ministry of the Interior, and you ask me whether I accept them. Let's get this together a little, straighten this, put it in a straight line, let's all know what we're talking about. No, 'because you have tabled this amendment to me in a timely manner, but because it is an amendment I do not like, but I am tabling an amendment which has nothing to do with the Ministry of the Interior, and I ask you whether you are accepting it.' It's not all happening together. I would like to thank you very much for a lively and interesting debate. Be sure that in the next few days we will continue our debate very productively. There's one left here to solve. I'm telling SYRIZA. One is the question: will they have restrictions or will they have not? Anyone who does not want to have restrictions votes not to have restrictions. The rest is discussed. Restrictions matter. Will they have restrictions or will they have no restrictions? In conclusion, I would like to point out the contradiction between Mr Ragosi, who read to us the articles of the Constitution that actually allow restrictions. In fact, Mr Ragosi, it does not necessarily say that restrictions should be imposed. I didn't say that the law passed is unconstitutional, it's constitutional. The question is whether we want restrictions. And because you call on me these articles, and on the one hand I have Mrs Jacquez and SYRIZA to break his clothes, that he doesn't want any restriction, and you come and read the articles to me and say, 'Look, here can we put restrictions', do you want to end this between you too? Do you want or do you want restrictions on this issue that you will be asked to place? It's a clear question. Everything else is around and around. We all understand the value of regional arguments. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. And let me ask Mr. Papaliou again if he can hear us put.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u303	I can hear you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u304	Well, you have the floor, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u305	Madam President, what point do I then speak? Or in the first place?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u306	Keep going from where you stopped. Do you remember that? Because you had already spent three quarters of your speech. If you remember, it's good. Otherwise, make a brief introduction and continue from where you stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u307	I will also give you some notes, some points - to say so - to include them in the Minutes, if they were not heard and if what I said were not recorded. I said from the outset that the current bill is seen from its content that it does not meet the purpose it is supposed to perform. It is a common practice of the government and, nonetheless, conflicts with the policy pursued by the Government of New Democracy. The bill appears to include a framework of rules to combat corruption, opacity and plausibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u308	Mr Colleague, you have a problem with the connection again, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u309	I see Mr Kouvella whom we have been looking for before. Mr Kouvella, you take the floor, and then we will go to the colleagues here, the rapporteurs, for the seconds. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u310	I'd love to. Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are still discussing a key draft law by the Mitsotakis Government. I call it the focal point for two reasons: firstly, because it adds to the important election announcements that we are implementing despite the pandemic, but above all, because it is still a strong antibiotic dose for the definitive treatment of the great patient in Greece that is not public administration. It is a very important bill following previous emblematics brought to the vote by the Ministry of Interior shortly after the last elections. Our main concern, and here at the people's request all these months, is more work and less words. In recent years there have been many discussions in the national Parliament on the pathogens of the Greek public administration, on the need to strengthen its human resources, on its vulnerabilities, on the improvements it needs, and on its important role in the development of our economy. Almost all public opinion surveys, calling for the opinion of the citizens, that is, they conclude that the state's system of operation does not satisfy. The causes are quite well known to all of us. Red tape, latentity, stalemate, complexity of procedures, chaotic legislation are issues that all of us are concerned about and we often find it difficult to move forward and to promote solutions. So, over time, the ordinary citizen avoids dealing with the public. It scares him. SYRIZA left a weak, responsible public sector, overcrowded by party posters and certainly without the slightest progress in digital governance. If we want to be proud of something for a year now, it is precisely this digital transition that we have achieved. If we want for the next few years to be proud of something as a political system, it would be on the one hand to achieve overall good and rapid citizens' services, without even their physical presence, if possible in public services, and on the other, to establish a climate of transparency and accountability in these remote areas, as will be the case in the future, public services, a well-organised public sector in the service of the citizen, friendly, transparent and above all effective. That is what we are seeking in this draft law. Besides, Greece has excellent public officials, as often we invoke our positions, who do their job properly and offer citizens. It's a reality. The last year we have witnessed speedy digitization. However, the Greeks and Greeks recognize this. It is not a finding of the Members of the Coupling Committee or of the relevant ministers. The digital leaps that took place in a few months are a path that we have been discussing for many years. The result is the direct provision of quality services to the citizen. The last decade of fiscal adjustment in Greece has clearly demonstrated all the problems and weaknesses of the public administration, weaknesses that have been considered to be significant factors of stagnation and a brake on the way to the country's development. It is no accident, after all, that for years both international organisations and domestic producers have pointed out these administrative and inefficiency deficits of the state, referring to public administration as the great patient. So this big patient's treatment comes to bring today's bill. An integrated internal control system is introduced for the first time to the Greek public administration. This is a system in line with international accounting standards and best practices, with a view, of course, to better performance of the work of public operators. The internal control system, in general, is not first introduced into Greek reality. However, so far it has not worked as it should have been, it has not even been implemented by the majority of public bodies. It is therefore clear that the scope of internal control, the legal framework of which was characterised by fragmentation of regulations, many provisions and, unfortunately, legal contradictions. Minister, I believe that you, like all colleagues who are fighting lawyers, can see the undeniable need for rationalisation of the provisions relating to public administration. The aim is to make the lives of all those who collaborate directly or indirectly with the public easier. This is something that the public officials, scientists, the entire legal world, eventually the Greek citizens, all of us who work with the public sector. At this point I would suggest, Minister, that a number of the bodies have reiterated at the relevant meeting, namely the need to have an internal auditor register, through which they will be more easily selected, but also that there will be critical data on the work and performance of each individual, which means that they will be assessed. A second very important innovation, innovative for the Greek public system, is the establishment of the institution of the integrity consultant. Civil servants from public bodies in our country are clear, well-known, confessed, aware that they can be in a very difficult position, faced with incidents of corruption, abuse of power, even sexual harassment and, in general, violations of integrity, as we say, by colleagues, by citizens or worse by their superiors. However, fear of stigmatism or retaliation discourages them. After all, it has been demonstrated by the revelations and complaints in various places lately. It therefore discourages them and the civil servants to report these incidents. To deal with the phenomenon in international practice, the institution has already developed and operates successfully. It is a very important innovation, which, if we want it to work, should be structured in the culture of all of us and, above all, of all, of public officials, so that they know from the outset, as the Minister mentioned earlier, that it is mainly preventive rather than repressive or punishing. Other provisions regulate repressive or auditing issues for public operators. In addition, this draft law also provides for other equally important regulations, which have to do with issues of public administration and local government. I would like to focus on the renewal of the rental contracts for schools, an issue that I have raised on several occasions through parliamentary control, and the government here confirms practical support for these people, which is necessary, especially during the pandemic period. School candles have been closed for a very long time, even more than the school - running time. I would like to ask you, Minister, to see if it is possible to renew all the rental contracts in school beds and not just those which expire on 30 June 2021 when the right time comes. I also distinguish provisions concerning the legal support of civil and local government officials - they were a permanent demand - and the evaluation of posted officials, but also the clear redefinition of the powers of the Economic Commissions in municipalities and regions. Unfortunately, with the simple analogue SYRIZA in the self-government elections, the economic committees and their operation were enclaved, so that they could not do their job properly. We therefore seek, with our current intervention, to reshape and improve the public sector as a whole, to provide all the necessary supplies, in order to do their jobs better and faster, and above all without fear, by public officials. Finally, this draft law provides for a broad institutionalisation of innovative processes and services. Who also does not want to see a public effective, productive, flexible, fast, without bureaucratic humiliation and corruption phenomena? And all this without just being dependent on the honor of the public minister, but on the means and motives for even better daily life for the employees on the one hand, but on the public on the other. Also, it is called upon that the public should not charge the state budget with unjustified costs, but that transactions should be done with full transparency, outbreaks of corruption, but also money laundering should be under the best possible control. Obviously, the public administration with its happy staff, who can do without fear of their jobs, through digitised processes and good infrastructure, can actually accomplish its aims in the service of all of us. The aim is a public one in relation to the citizen...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u312	So I'm closing up with this. We must give them the freedom of bureaucracy and the sovereignty of the irresponsible person we have seen in recent years and live in the public sector. We, the Government, the Minister, the Ministry responsible with the draft law, therefore ensure with all these interventions that we minimise bureaucracy, restore the credibility of the public administration, because we believe in the sovereignty of the responsible public officials who are aware of their responsibilities, their duties and do so in full. I invite you to vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u313	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u314	Madam President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u315	Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministers for Justice, Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, State, and the Deputy Ministers for Economic and Development and Investment tabled a draft law on 14-4-2021: 'Code of Justice'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Have you asked for the floor for clarification, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u316	I just wanted to say a word to Mr. Voridis. My opinion is that you do not seem so disturbed when you are critical of the legislation you are introducing. If you can't show it and show it, at least take care of at least for reasons, say it, fair play, do not resort to blows under the belt. You can do politically falsifying the arguments of counterpopulation. You can go and put, as they say in my village, a few more snails to support what you think, but do not twist, because by taking forts, Mr Vorides, you forget that with what you say - and which we have said and which is, of course, written in the Minutes - while you say so, you do not address people who lack memory. And I say it to understand what I'm trying to tell you. It was such a loss of your temper that I wouldn't expand now. You said too much. We were telling you about a worthy choice on the integrity board, you said that cross-party choice equals party choice. It's things that aren't even worth commenting. To understand what I want to say, you have reached the point of referring essentially - without you calling them - to Mr Papagelopoulos and to Mr Papapas, which is now decided by your majority first to be controlled by the Committee on Preliminary Examination. And while you were saying so, I'm sure you thought we didn't know any of your colleagues, Vice-President of your party, called Adonis Georgiadis, who is even controlled at the moment when we're talking about the great 'NOVARTIS' scandal by the corruption prosecutor, by the supreme justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u317	Has he been prosecuted?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u318	It's not checked? What did you say about Mr. Pappa? Has he been prosecuted for Mr. Pappas?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u319	For Mr. Pappa, I said he was controlled by the pre-inquiry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u320	Why did you say about the Pope, and you didn't say about Adoni Georgiadis, Mr. Voridis? Do you know why I'm telling you this example? To understand that - I repeat - it is legitimate to try to defend your bill and defend yourself against the criticism you receive, but at least do not strike down the belt...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u321	Since you caught this conversation, will you tell us about Mr. Contonis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u322	Minister, let him finish. Please close, Mr Ragosi, because you have gone far beyond your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u323	It's what I said he's confirming me. Constrain yourself when you are critical. Contrast, Mr. Voridis. Comparable, because now basically just as soon as we've started and the hard, the difficult for you personally, at the Ministry of the Interior, it's ahead. He's not in the back. A little restraint and no falsification of our names. If I wanted to talk to faces from the AACC, Mr Voridis, I didn't need your own subscription, I would. And you know very well that I'm one of those who can't afford to say their opinion, so they think it should be said. My complaint was specific and, of course, you think we have escaped the question, but that question will always exist in front of you. It is how you respond to thousands of Greeks, not to say hundreds of thousands of Greeks and Greeks, who in fact, with these arrangements you bring and now for the ASP, you exclude them from the possibility of claiming for themselves that they become members of the ASP, and indeed by decision of the Intergroup, Mr Vorides, that is to say, as much as possible. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Adamopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u325	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for your reply, because it is not customary for the ministers to respond to the positions of the Elsinos Anti-Population. I would like to tell you about what you said to create another independent authority, in response to what I asked you about where the internal control structure would fall, not subject to the Ministry hierarchy, but outside the Ministry. You said we're going to create another independent authority? But there was. I referred to my speech. It was the Chief Inspector for Public Administration, a very inefficient audit mechanism, with annual reports which were detailed. The citizens referred to this mechanism for any irregularities, and were informed accordingly. And the New Democracy came with Law 4622 of 2019 and effectively abolished this institution by absorbing it from the National Transparency Authority. I'm not counting on you, I'm talking about the government. So you have created another independent authority and you ask, should we create another one? You have created an umbrella under which you have dictated not only the inspector-general but also other control mechanisms, such as the Secretariat-General for Combating Corruption. You practically weakened them. Is it not the case that you weakened them? So I call on the Government to conduct a comparative study, between the annual reports by the Public Administration Inspector and the corresponding reports from 2019, to see what control measures have been taken by the relevant body that you have created. We should do this comparative study, because so far what we have seen from the factuals of the general inspector was that it was an independent body, an independent body, which was not subject to anyone's hierarchy and had all the guarantees of impartiality and openness, assisted by staff specialised and trained. Let us see, then, in comparison with what has happened since 2019, because the lack and inefficiency of the control mechanisms is the main pathogenicity of the public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, my colleague. Now we're going to the rapporteurs' seconds. As you all know, you are far beyond your time. That's why you'll have three minutes to get a second. Let's go backwards as you know. Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. Two thoughts I would like to make at the end of the procedure. I have listened very carefully to the Minister, and also to colleagues from the other groups. I think that we have a duty to sum up our position in blocs and point out two, three blunt things, for which, when we leave the Chamber, we should have an opinion on who says what. As far as the bill we are discussing today, Minister, the guarantee system did not bring it to us as regards the system you are creating. Your system, your structure is not followed by a guarantee system. I say this very well. I might have been persuaded to a very large extent if the structure were followed by support and security columns. That's not what you brought. Population where you're going to find, you didn't tell us. We are not talking about individuals, we are talking about speeches, because in the 2019 report you had a thousand six hundred ninety - eight - life! - Entities and now they'll be about twenty-seven more, than I know, if our statistics are good. Yours are definitely better. And the integrity consultant and the internal control unit are in simple words, not to blame the effort, a very good idea which, in our understanding, wanted a lot of work yet to be done. This system needed consultation. You could not have thirty and bring to Parliament at the end eighty, yelling and fighting us - something that I say kindly and well-meaningly - because we do not vote on the provisions which we first met in sunlight today at 15.00-16.00 this afternoon. And I conclude, Madam President, with one comment. Speaking also to me - and to the committee today - and to colleagues, but also to the mayor, you said 'of the insides of the small mayors, as well as all the mayors, they come and say 'I will not find them from the municipality, do I not have to put in private?'
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u328	Isn't it called? Don't you know it's called it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u329	It's called, you say. It's called it, we say. But listen. Even if that happens, I won't make the surprise and that I'm out of place and time. You'll have to look in another direction, that way...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u330	Mr. Hatzigiannakis is serious...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u331	He's very serious, and I confirm. There are some serious people, too, it's true. But, Minister, even this is actually the case - and we must accept that it has such scope - and that the mayors say so - you must have a system of even greater guarantees there. Because you cannot leave this thing free and exist alone and actually make an institutional abundance in the operation of the public service, where you and we know that there are too many problems, that we need institutional guarantees to operate this system, as you at least imagine, as I at least understand that you are thinking about it. Just the last sentence. Today we talked about words and who hides behind words. We talked about this, and we did it between us punks. The Constitution - we law-enforcement lawyers, not economics - should be careful where we put the perfection, where we put the party and how we are doing in public, at least so that we are not exposed. And because we are thirty years of legality in the Criminal, Madam President, fighting for the front line, we are very careful when we read words and phrases. As far as the Constitution is concerned, leave it alone with regard to the vote on the falsifications. Grab your line, find it between you two. Look for what you're going to do. You're going to change the commander? Will you accept Jacquerie? Are you going to step back? Will you interpret the statements? Will you try to change the constitution? The Constitution doesn't change. Tonight we accept that the Constitution cannot change, nor can it be paraphrased, nor its content be altered. Look elsewhere for some arguments, since you didn't want to build a Viphigenia, and that's your political choice. In any case, however, you have to say the figs and vessels without the Constitution. You alone will articulate your political speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, too. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Madam President. Look, for the bill, I think we've exhausted all the margins. In conclusion, I would like to say this: this bill obviously comes to shield the urban state, which makes reactionary modernisations necessary, so that the public sector and the public administration can unequivocally serve the planning of the bourgeoisie, the competitiveness, the profitability of business groups in the new circumstances. And on this, there is compassion from both New Democracy and SYRIZA. Everything else is about shadow, either about the vote on the results, which works disorientatively and to save votes, or about the subject referred to in Article 54 for the APRC, as if we did not know what the role of AACC is and went on to say. Mr Minister, we have tabled two amendments. The amendments you and SYRIZA, as well as the other parties - the other parties have ruled - have made them a science. You have told us that it is not your responsibility to amend the amendment as far as the Spanish schools are concerned. The ministerial amendments tabled are all your responsibilities? At times, the parliamentary amendments, your own MPs, your party are all the responsibility of the Minister who brings the bill? You'll tell me, "I'm doing what I'm doing as Minister. I do not care what others do." I beg your pardon now, so that we don't go crazy, there was time for the Minister of Education to be informed, to come here and put to this serious issue and a fair demand for children in the summer schools. As is well known for some time now, the content of the other amendment, which concerns the legal support of civil servants. It's nothing new. And that's where you threw the ball in the crate. In any case, anyone who does not want to ferment ten days or five hundred years is sifting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u334	The way you say it, you make me reject it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u335	Anyway, we are all judged and those who see us understand what you are coming to serve. I would like to mention just one point in relation to Article 56 of the bill on the service of the General Secretariat of Criminal Policy. Prison contractors are mobilised, two hundred and fifty-five-working PPC contractors with eight-month contracts, and one-third of these people will be out of work. Article 56, therefore, does not solve the problem arising from the 6K of 2018. So, in a lasting hostage, these workers are. We say that these people must be permanentised, because there is a need to work in prisons because of increased needs. Now, with regard to the ministerial amendments, first of all, I should like to make it clear that the status of ministerial amendments is unacceptable. Apart from the fact that each one of them is a separate bill, they obviously have nothing to do with the principle of good legislation. Of course, the previous governments did. However, we are not given the right to express ourselves by voting for each article separately. In an amendment, in this case in the ministerial amendments we are debating, there are articles that we are voting against, articles that we are positive and articles that we are voting on'residents'. For example, Ministerial Amendment No 834 and Special number 74 have nine articles. In both cases we are voting against, we are saying 'the present' and we are voting in favour of all three. The amendment, however, is a single amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u336	So, what are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u337	So get out of here now! Isn't that raw blackmail? It's raw blackmail!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u338	What are you voting for?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u339	And you know why? For example, we are voting in favour of the deletion of small confirmed debts to the OTAs or for bank seats or for municipal police overtime due to the pandemic. We therefore vote on the debts of leasing companies to TATs, on the granting of third-party living and care. However, we are voting against two very important, negative provisions of the amendment, such as this, firstly, the extension of the establishment of development agencies which open up a path to business and, secondly, the delegation of landfill services and the relocation of dead bodies, which leads to the privatisation of an additional sector of cemeteries, on the pretext of lack of staff. So you put the knife in our throats. So we are voting against this amendment as a whole. Here, however, has the means and the positive points that we wanted to vote on. So it doesn't work blackmail? It is Amendment No 837/77 which has three articles. We are, of course, voting against it, but it has the means and some of which we call 'the present'. But the first article regarding the appointment of the artistic director at the National Theatre and the State Theatre of Northern Greece, which we disagree with this specific provision, is boastful. Finally, Amendment No 838 and specific number 78 have seven articles. We are voting against it too, because two important articles are also bored. What are these articles that are burdening us with refusing this amendment? It is the transfer to the economic committee of the municipalities, the establishment or participation in development organisations. And you know, Mr Voridis, it is a provocative step, because the first article in the previous amendment was to extend the time limit for development agencies. In this new amendment we have overturned the previous amendment, namely the one you have brought to this bill and the decision on the development agencies goes beyond the responsibility of the Economic Committee. Now we're talking about an incredible album, why? Because you want to serve certain purposes and why you want to facilitate developmental organisations in the context of the business activities of the Local Government agencies. The second important is the ‘Consortium of Citizens and the Company’, i.e. the option of e-commerce. This is an institution which serves consensus and social society. It did not "walk" and you now think that with the electronic vote on the "Supplier of the Citizen and the Company" there will be even any resistance, but there will be no dialogue so that it will be very easy to proceed with this measure. Finally, we are voting on Amendment No 839 and specific number 79, which has three articles. However, it has a very important provision, which we would like to vote on - and I stress this - and it concerns issues relating to the regulation of firefighting personnel. We would really like to vote on this. And I say that because...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u340	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u341	I will close with that, Madam President. In any case, in order not to take any more time, we consider it to be for the benefit of conventional fire extinguishers and it is a constant and time-consuming request and the trade unions of the Firehouse. However, in order for the amendment to be more comprehensive, we would propose, for example, that the seasonal firefighters who become incapable of the battle service should also be included in paragraph 3 because of serious pathological reasons. In paragraph 4, it should be included that, in this case, they will not be prevented from participating in a future tender if health problems have disappeared. Paragraph 5 could include providing for seasonal firefighters who become incapable of working with a total disability following a serious injury in the performance of their service or from the occurrence of pathological diseases that have been established, to receive full-time retirement and medical care. I mean, it could be enriched even more. In any case, however, we are voting for this. However, in the amendment as a whole, we are saying 'the present' because it has two other important provisions that we are opposed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u342	Thank you. Mr. Hatzigiannakis has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u343	I will not be able to place myself within three minutes, but I will try to be very quick, Madam President, because we have so many amendments, which I think will be a failure on our part not to mention the amendments, especially today. I will fully agree - and it is the second time that we happen to be rapporteurs with Mr Syntagakis - that the way the amendments are coming is extremely problematic. And I'm not talking about times, if you keep them or you don't keep them, I've told them in my prototype. I am talking about the fact that there are very positive amendments - and I will not really go into it because Mr Syntagakis said so, and I fully agree with him - which we want to vote for, but we are not given the opportunity to vote in favour, because we will necessarily vote in favour of provisions to which we are vertically opposed and we have said so. One of our main objections is what you have done with the Economic Committees. So when you bring us new responsibilities in the economic committees, using the municipal councils, even if we vote for the positive provisions that we want, which we are clearly in favour, you are bringing us before dilemmas and moral blackmail that we cannot lift. That is why you really need to see, Minister, how the amendments will come at least because I understand that there may be amendments on a case-by-case basis. I will not tell you that you must not bring any amendments and that everything should come to the original bill. We are talking about very serious issues relating to the life of many of our fellow people, such as the specific issue that Mr Hardalias has suggested earlier, and which we regard as in the positive direction, and we wanted to vote for it, but I cannot do as it has come. Because, as I have said before, it also means voting in favour of provisions that we are totally negative. So we cannot, unfortunately, vote in favour. On the amendment by the Communist Party, your competence, I would like to tell you to see it. I understand what you said about the General Accountancy Office, but we do not think that it has more public expenditure than it had, so that there can be reflection, especially because it concerns officials, who can be sought in the event of an innocence or inadmissibility of the civil claim against them. They can be sought, because they are employees and have an organic position, so they can be retained by their wages.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u344	What if they're convicted and fired?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u345	Anyway, he wants a procedure. You know it takes a long enough process to get to the dismissal. It will not be done automatically and they can be retained. It's not that big a trial bill, you know that very well. It is, however, for a man, who goes indicted because he has signed a warrant as the final authorising officer, very important. They usually don't have a criminal assessment, but people run in court. I think that's what you're doing with the order. At least do it completely. For the SYRIZA amendments, you have told us that you cannot examine them. We believe that the Communist Party must also come quickly to the Minister for Education. The amendment is correct. However, our amendments too do restore a great deal of injustice this year, especially in the children who compete with the conditions we have in our country and around the world. It doesn't make sense to have a topic bank this year, in 2021, when the children of Alytheu have not had any school at all. We knew the results when the conditions were normal, in 2013, if my memory didn't cheat on me. Now imagine what's going on. I'm talking, of course, about the ways in which they can be introduced. It must not apply this year and the government must quickly see this issue. I'm returning what you told us, if I remember well, at the last session. Like a lot of things you didn't tell us today, Minister? And what you didn't tell us! You told us about corruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u346	Mr. Raguss spoke...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u347	Jesus, I'd say! Mercy, the New Democracy Government must speak about anti-corruption, about a bill coming! And now I understand the article that was in place, despite the fact that the journalist had probably not understood exactly where he was being given and that corruption was allegedly being fought with this bill. Minister, you say you want to fight corruption. However, I would like to refer to the decisions concerning direct awards of three million which your Ministry has made. Of course you have not signed them, but you have given them to the service or the Executive Secretary to sign them. According to European Directive 2014/24/Leave what I say, can I say anything - which applies to all public procurement in the European legal world and in domestic law and cannot legislate on the contrary, is there any exception that allows directly three million advertising campaigns to be awarded? And well, except that it's illegal, except that we have asked the European Commission to take a position on this particular issue...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u348	Sue!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u349	No, we're not going to sue, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u350	If it's illegal, you can sue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u351	We go to the institutions and the relevant bodies will be judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u352	Mr Colleague, continue your speech and please do not respond, because your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u353	But it is a pity that your publishers, the pro-government publishers among themselves, are fighting for who is more governmental and who is less governmental, as we have seen recently and I imagine on the occasion of advertising campaigns given to partners by some of these publishers. I can at least give my perverted thoughts such thoughts. It may not be like that and I may be wrong with you. I want to make a reference to Article 54. Minister, we have not told you - and I told you in the prototype - that the Conference of Presidents will not decide. The question is not that, nor is it the particular person you mentioned and if, with good reason, man becomes the president of the ADP in the immediate future. He can be rated. It can have a historic path amazing. I don't have anything with the man in particular. But you are not entitled to legislate for a particular person. You are not entitled and let God himself come down! This is forbidden by our legal order. We cannot make photographic provisions, precisely because it is contrary to all our legislation. That's our objection, except for unconstitutionality. And you did not answer that, because, if you have seen the objection of unconstitutionality, which was judged by this House - I do not want to go any further - it also had this aspect of the photographic provision. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For Mr. Condonne...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u354	Mr Colleague, you have to close it, please too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u355	I'm closing, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u356	You know you're making a general gathering, we're not talking about the whole bill now. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u357	We heard about it, that's why. If he doesn't want me to answer for Mr. Contonis, I have no objections, not to answer him, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u358	Let's put that in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u359	But don't think we're escaping and not answering. Since you are a legal person, you know them very well. Mr. Kontonis was not here - you were not here, I was not, but I was following it - in voting for the Criminal Code, which started in 2015 by a committee consisting of the most eminent - and certainly intergroupers, not of the SYRIZA - criminalists of the Greek legal order, who said that this was an institutional intervention - a station? That's where he said it. He was not a minister, of course, because he had left since 1918, but he was a Member of the Greek Parliament. I should like to reply to you what, when it comes now in the Sunday 'Pressors' newspaper' was entitled 'Contonis', and from below it was an article by Mr Manda, the colleague with whom they stand. They settle in the same building. He said how cubic the particular provision was and the plenary of the lawyers had taken a clear position on the modernisation that this Criminal Code brought. I'm closing, Madam President, with one last mention...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u360	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, you have completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u361	One last.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u362	Mr. Colleague, you have tripled your time. Please very much, you know the rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u363	I know, Madam President, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u364	Don't embarrass me. My colleague spoke for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u365	One word and I'll close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u366	Just a word, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u367	I am not talking about you now, but about the Deputy Minister, because he told us what good and good things were done today in the CEDEFOP and only answered the opposition mayors. To read today - because we have followed it - what the mayors of the New Democracy said, because Mr Papanastasios of Agrinio is not SYRIZA. Mr. Papastergiou, who said that all the municipalities have been troubled because they think the project is being destroyed, it's not SYRIZA. So, let's hear the mayors this time - your mayors, I'm not saying the other mayors - so that Mr. Peucas understands what's wrong with this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u368	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Constantinidis, will you be seconded?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u369	For a while, Madam President. Thank you very much. Let's start with corruption. I will not go into names, but I see here the international classifications that, in relation to the governance of the SYRIZA, we are in a better position, despite the fact that a pandemic has taken place which, if you like, creates conditions of delay in procedures, transparency and so on. So, first of all, the messages are positive. As far as the bill is concerned, four things will be left out of this process. The first is that I have had the honour of proposing for the majority a draft law that introduces areas, reforms, innovative institutions. I will also include both of them, and internal control, since, as it has proved, this process has never been addressed at that level. In other words, a framework has not been established that covers all public bodies and creates conditions, conditions for upgrading public sector operators. So that's the one positive. At the same time, of course, with the third part and the amendments to the bill, which resolve important issues for administration, local government and workers. I think it is understandable that not all of this is the inventions of the political leadership, but that the Minister has been made to receive requests from workers in order to address these issues. Now, what are the three negatives I'm gonna have. They are the three paradoxes of the behaviour of the Opposition and, in particular, of the Officerial Response. The first is that the Qualified Opposition is still voting against internal control, which it had implemented as a government and is supposed to recognise and defend. The second is that SYRIZA objected to anti-constitutionalism on an issue that he had adopted and also at the stage of his implementation. The third paradox is that the question of facilitating the vote of the Greeks abroad was effectively revoked by SYRIZA within two days of the relevant position of his relevant department. We, ladies and gentlemen, continue the reform work of the Government, part of which is the specific bill to upgrade administration, progress in the country and improve the standard of living of all Greeks, in which public bodies and services from this play an important role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u370	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u371	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, you raised a methodological issue - Parliament had already dealt with it - and that is the question of how to vote on the amendments. It's not a question of government. It is a matter of Parliament's vote. He's been busy with us. We haven't solved it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u372	But it has to be solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u373	... because there is a view that the amendment is a single body and we cannot vote on the amendment in writing. I do not agree with this interpretation, but, in any case, this interpretation has been given. In my opinion, Parliament could do differently, but it is a matter of Parliament, it is not a question of the government. The second issue. Mrs Adamopoulou has made another comment, which I did not reply to and which I also find very interesting in relation to her fraud and the subject - you said - possible discrimination between 38 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for compulsory reporting and the commitment to transfer the information to his supervisor. Firstly, here the concept of fraud is not used in the sense of 386 of the Criminal Code. It has the broadest sense of any possible problem, but it has the character of some kind of illegal or irregular act. This is an international terminology which is used in auditing. It does not refer to the objective status of 386. That is the first point. The second is that it refers to evidence of fraud. What she does is that she reports to her supervisor the evidence of fraud, so that her supervisor can act. So it is not compulsory here that we are at the level where we are obliged to distribute. We are still in the sphere of internal control, we have not crossed the level that, if you like, has gained one certainty or one certainty that something needs to be distributed. We're still in control. But I keep your remarks. Perhaps interpretative may need something more when the system is implemented. Mr. Hatzyannakis, listen. I say this with a lot of love to you. To SYRIZA I address nothing with love, but only to you. Listen to something. I've been here a long time, and I've heard the millions of them. I can take about everything. One I can't stand, I haven't tolerated it, and anyone who's done it has gone to the cashier. And I'm not giving that away. We know that. Fascist, right-wing, black, red, yellow, I don't know what. I've heard everything. I've heard personal reductions, doubted my legal skills. I've heard everything here. Everything! We're going well. Everyone is judged to be political in this regard. I have tolerated the heaviest and most acute expressions. I would like to clarify: I do not have a word on ethical and integrity issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u374	I didn't say that. I'm clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u375	I know you didn't say. I know. I'm just saying, just to be informed. Because you are opening the debate on the 3 million direct assignments, because you do not know this and have told you to say it, because for the 3 million I have clarified that a provision is being applied, which you have voted on and which is included in the electoral law, specifically concerning the special provision on how to update the results, and because the 3 million, although not provided, has been followed in a competitive manner and because offers have been made and because they have been given to the broker, I am telling you a good deal! And I'm telling you one more thing. It is precisely because the procedure has been initiated by officials, without any intervention policy and because, with this talk, you are afflicting officials, who are not even legally required, to tolerate the acute and unfavourable criticisms that we may accept, because they are not publicized, because they are not politicians, because they are employees and do their job, I say, stop. A colleague of yours has already collected a lawsuit, and he's going to go to cash. So be careful when you refer to that Minister for issues of integrity, transparency and order and honesty. And I'm opening it a little bit more. Consider, too, when you refer to the ministry’s service actors who are acting in the execution of a legislative cheque. It's not a good field. Come and stand up politically. Come and stand up ideologically. Come and confront programming. Say what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u376	Of course, and we disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u377	This with this Minister in particular, and with this ministry, it is not a good field. I'm closing it. I didn't say you said, I said carefully. But don't get carried away.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u378	I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u379	Let's go to Contonis. You weren't here in that conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u380	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u381	But I was, and I know what Contonis said. Condonus disagreed and disagreed on a step. Another general position on the Criminal Code, with which I disagree anyway and voted against it etc. But here we are not talking about general placement. And that SYRIZA doesn't take the ball to the stands. We're talking about bribery here. The Criminal Code was a big thing, it had stuff in it, it was all wrong, in my opinion, but one can say that you know, it was right. We are talking about this. There was social work, the conversions of the penalty, the abolition of the penalty. He had five hundred issues. It was a big intervention, the Criminal Code. We're not talking about it now. Simple question: the bribery, why have you made it a crime? Leave the rest. That's what Contonis tells you. Kontonis says you ordered bribery. That has to be answered. So the rest is regional. In any case, what is left of this sitting? Something important, something important, something that we will insist on, the internal control system, which has a lot of work to do, that wants education, which wants to be activated by the School of Public Administration and to train, which wants a certification process and something important, such as the integrity adviser, which needs to be activated, that there must be executives, which must be made choices, that these internal procedures must be built and started today. What will the historian of the future be looking at when the internal audit process is being implemented? He will see that the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis established it and proceeded with it and the opposition parties voted against it. A large part of the fight against corruption was supported by us, by New Democracy, by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Civic Anti-Policy, but also by the Elasson Anti-Policy, left behind this picture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u383	Madam President, I would only like to speak on personal grounds for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u384	The procedure is closed, Mr. Comrade. The Minister's closed. We cannot now open up this debate. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u385	It's planned...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u386	Not provided.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u387	No, Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u388	Listen to me, please too. I chair and you have to listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u389	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u390	I've given you as much time as you can't imagine. You first had nineteen minutes and you took another ten minutes. It's never happened before. They've been documented. We're writing your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u391	And thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u392	The Minister has decimated. You could say what you want in your dentistry. Please, there is no such procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u393	I just want on staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u394	It's over, Mr. Comrade. There's no way I can give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u395	There will be a lawsuit, Madam President. I want to tell you there's gonna be a lawsuit.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u396	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of Articles and amendments to the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: 'Internal Audit System of the Public Sector, Adviser to Integrity in Public Administration and other provisions on Public Administration and Local Government'. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. An application has been made for a roll-call vote on Article 54 of the draft law by Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement. I will not read out the list of signatories, because due to the special circumstances, we believe there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for its submission. We are therefore adjourning the sitting for ten (10 minutes) in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u397	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on Article 54 of the draft law. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u398	I would like to inform you that Members have come to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, with which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count which will be followed. [[The letters referred to above are lodged in the minutes and are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] Once you have finished, please close the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u399	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. Article 54 was adopted by 213 Members: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against this article, 55 Members voted against. 'Communities' voted, no one. The bill was therefore accepted by a majority of Article 54. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u400	At the end of the roll-call vote, we proceed to vote on the principle, on the rest of the articles, amendments and on the entire bill. The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes on the other articles and amendments, in order to be included in the Parliament's official minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u401	Therefore, following the conclusion of the vote, the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: ‘Internal Audit System of the Public Sector, Public Administration Adviser and other provisions on Public Administration and Local Government’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u402	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u403	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Wednesday 16 December 2020, Thursday 17 December 2020, Friday 18 December 2020, Monday 21 December 2020 and Tuesday 22 December 2020 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u404	The Minutes have been ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-14-S1-commons.u405	With the consent of the House at 21.17 the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 15 April 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: only debate and vote at the outset, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment "Simplification of the framework for the exercise of economic activities in the field of the competence of the Ministries of Development, Investment, Labour and Social Affairs, Maritime and Island Policy, Infrastructure and Transport, arrangements for the transfer to the Industrial Property Organisation of Trademarks and other provisions for strengthening development" in accordance with the agenda distributed.
